---

title: Interest messages with a payload for a named data network
abstract: A network device can process a payload in an Interest packet. During operation, the network device can receive an Interest packet that includes a name or a name prefix associated with one or more target entities for the Interest. If the network device determines that the Interest packet includes a payload, the network node can analyze the Interest's name and/or payload to determine an operation to perform for processing the payload. The network device then proceeds to process the payload by performing the determined operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276840&OS=09276840&RS=09276840
owner: PALO ALTO RESEARCH CENTER INCORPORATED
number: 09276840
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131030
---
This disclosure is generally related to computer networks. More specifically this disclosure is related to an Interest packet that includes a name and a payload.

The proliferation of mobile computing and cellular networks is making digital content more mobile than ever before. People can use their smartphones to generate content to consume content or even to provide Internet access to other computing devices that generate or consume content. Oftentimes a device s network location can change as a person takes this device to a new physical location. This can make it difficult to communicate with this device under a traditional computer network e.g. the Internet when the device s new network location is not known.

To solve this problem information centric network architectures have been designed to facilitate accessing digital content based on its name regardless of the content s physical or network location. These architectures allow a network device to obtain data from a content producer regardless of the content producer s physical or network location or from any other device that has cached the same piece of content. Content centric Networking CCN or named data networking is an example of an Information centric networking architecture.

In CCN Interests do not include a payload. Each Interest encodes the information necessary for reaching a content producer in the Interest s name. Some client devices attach additional information into an Interest s name to provide this information to the content producer. Unfortunately there is a limit to the amount information that can be attached to the Interest s name. A name that is too large can cause routers to drop the Interest packet when the name does not fit into a pending interest table PIT or when the name does not match an entry in a forwarding information base FIB .

One embodiment provides an Interest processing network device that operates in a named data network NDN and facilitates processing an Interest s payload to cache the payload or to manipulate one or more local resources. Specifically each Interest includes a name and can include a payload. The Interest s name can have a fixed length or can have an arbitrary length. The Interest s name can be hierarchical e.g. includes an ordered sequence of name elements or can be a flat name e.g. a hash value . The Interest s payload can also carry instructions that can manipulate resources at network devices that receive process store and or forward an Interest or the Interest s payload.

The network device can include for example a router a wireless access point a cache server a computer cluster a peer network device or any other device coupled to a named data network or an information centric network. The device s resources can include a forwarding information base FIB a pending interest table PIT a content store CS a repository and or any other resources now known or later developed. The device s resource can also include any other resource accessible to a computing device such as a processing unit a memory a non volatile storage device a network interface etc.

During operation the network device can receive an Interest packet that includes a name or a name prefix associated with one or more target entities for the Interest. If the network device determines that the Interest packet includes a payload the network node can analyze the Interest s name and or payload to determine an operation to perform for processing the payload. The network device then proceeds to process the payload by performing the determined operation.

In some embodiments the payload includes data for a target entity that is to consume the Interest packet e.g. a target entity associated with the Interest s name .

In some variations to these embodiments the network device can determine based on the Interest s name that the local network node is not an intended recipient of the Interest s payload. For example the network device may be a router that forwards the Interest toward a content producer that is to consume the Interest. The network device processes the payload by caching or storing the Interest s payload in a local content store in association with the Interest s name. The network device can also forward the Interest packet via an interface or a virtual interface associated with the Interest packet s name or name prefix.

In some variations to these embodiments the network device can determine based on the Interest s name that the local network node is an intended recipient of the Interest s payload. For example the network device may be a content producer that consumes the Interest. The network device then determines a local application associated with the Interest s name or name prefix and uses the application to process the payload.

In some embodiments the payload includes instructions or data for configuring a network node. The instructions can include at least one of program instructions a binary executable file a virtual machine executable file and a script. The data can include for example a configuration file. For example the network node can include a router or network device that forwards Interests toward a content producer. The network node can execute the instructions or process the data to manipulate one or more local resources that are used to forward packets over a named data network or an information centric network.

In some variations to these embodiments the Interest packet includes access control information. Further while processing the Interest s payload the network device can determine whether the access control information grants the Interest packet permission to reconfigure the network node. If so the network device executes the instructions to reconfigure the network node.

In some variations to these embodiments the instructions or data configure routing information at the local computing device.

In some variations to these embodiments the instructions or data configure a maximum bandwidth for an interface of the local computing device.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the embodiments and is provided in the context of a particular application and its requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present invention is not limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Embodiments of the present invention solve the problem of pushing content over a named data network NDN or a content centric network CCN by including a payload in an Interest packet. CCN or NDN is an example of an Information centric networking ICN architecture. In the present invention the Interest packet includes a name that can be used to route the Interest packet and can include a payload that is separate from the name. This payload can include data that is to be pushed to a target device associated with the Interest s name such as a content custodian or a content consumer. For example a network router can read a payload from an Interest to cache data that is being pushed to a consumer of the Interest. As another example the payload can include instructions or configuration information that network routers can use to manipulate or configure one or more local resources. A network router can process and execute instructions from the Interest s payload to create read update and or delete data on a local resource.

In a typical CCN all content is named and each piece of data is bound to a unique name that distinguishes the data from any other piece of data such as other versions of the same data or data from other sources. This unique name allows a network device to request the data by disseminating an Interest that includes the name or a name prefix and can obtain the data independent from the data s storage location network location application and means of transportation. A description of a CCN architecture is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 338 175 entitled CONTROLLING THE SPREAD OF INTERESTS AND CONTENT IN A CONTENT CENTRIC NETWORK by inventors Van L. Jacobson and Diana K. Smetters filed 18 Dec. 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Content Object A single piece of data which is bound to a unique name. Content Objects are persistent which means that a Content Object can move around within a computing device or across different computing devices but does not change. If any component of the Content Object changes the entity that made the change creates a new Content Object that includes the updated content binds the new Content Object to a new unique location independent name.

Unique Names A name in a CCN or named data network is typically location independent and uniquely identifies a Content Object. A data forwarding device can use the name or name prefix to forward a packet toward a network node that generates or stores the Content Object regardless of a network address or physical location for the Content Object. In some embodiments the name may be a hierarchically structured variable length identifier HSVLI . The HSVLI can be divided into several hierarchical components which can be structured in various ways. For example the individual name components parc home ccn and test.txt can be structured in a left oriented prefix major fashion to form the name parc home ccn test.txt. Thus the name parc home ccn can be a parent or prefix of parc home ccn test.txt. Additional components can be used to distinguish between different versions of the content item such as a collaborative document.

In some embodiments the name can include a non hierarchical identifier such as a hash value that is derived from the Content Object s data e.g. a checksum value and or from elements of the Content Object s name. A description of a hash based name is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 847 814 entitled ORDERED ELEMENT NAMING FOR NAME BASED PACKET FORWARDING by inventor Ignacio Solis filed 20 Mar. 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference. A name can also be a flat label. Hereinafter name is used to refer to any name for a piece of data in a name data network such as a hierarchical name or name prefix a flat name a fixed length name an arbitrary length name or a label e.g. a Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS label .

Interest A packet that indicates a request for a piece of data and includes the name or name prefix for the data. A data consumer can disseminate an Interest across a named data network which CCN routers can propagate toward a storage device e.g. a cache server or a data producer that can provide the a matching Content Object to satisfy the Interest.

In some embodiments a system administrator can configure or reconfigure one or more routers across a network by disseminating an Interest packet that includes a payload carrying instructions for deploying the desired changes to the network. The packet can include instructions that configure a router to create update or delete one or more entries in a FIB for example to establish new route paths and or to tear down other route paths. The Interest packet s payload can also include instructions that establish Quality of Service QoS requirements at a router such as to perform traffic shaping on an interface or virtual interface of the router.

Computing environment can also include other network devices that can disseminate Interest packets across network . For example an online service provider can deploy an online service at a content producer that is accessible via network . Content producer can include a server computer or a computer cluster that interfaces with edge node . of network and can include a repository that stores data for one or more users. However routing nodes are best able to route a packet to content producer when routing nodes include a FIB entry that maps the packet s name or name prefix to an optimal local interface that can best reach content producer .

In some embodiments the online service provider can use a network controller to configure an optimal route path to content producer for a given namespace or for various names or name prefixes. This optimal path can start from an ingress edge node that provides network access to a plurality of client devices and reaches an egress edge node . along a path to content producer .

Network controller can generate an Interest packet that includes one or more FIB entries for each edge node and each routing node along the Interest s path and that include instructions for inserting these FIB entries into the corresponding network nodes of network . Once an edge node has created the FIB entries the edge node can proceed to forward the Interest packet using the updated FIB. If the update to the FIB creates or updates an entry associated with the Interest packet s name or name prefix the edge node can forward the Interest packet along a new path established by the Interest packet s instructions. Hence network controller can send this packet to edge node . to establish the optimized path toward content producer by creating the necessary FIB entries to establish the path while forwarding the Interest along the path.

In some embodiments client device can generate an Interest packet that includes a name or name prefix associated with a path established by network controller . Client device can disseminate the Interest to send or obtain the piece of data from any device of network that can satisfy the Interest over an established path. Routers that receive this Interest read a local FIB to obtain a FIB entry associated with the Interest s name or name prefix and forwards the Interest via an interface or virtual interface indicated by the FIB entry.

Also in some embodiments client device can push data toward content producer by also attaching the data as a payload in the Interest packet. A routing node e.g. edge nodes . and . can include a content store CS to cache payload data from network packets that pass through network e.g. to cache Content Objects . If the routing node detects that an Interest packet includes a payload for a consumer of the Interest packet the routing node can store the Interest packet s payload in the CS by associating the payload data to the Interest packet s name or name prefix.

If Interest packet is to request data from the target device access control information can include a digital certificate and or other authorization information e.g. a digital certificate that grants Interest the necessary permission to access the requested information. Payload can include information that the target device can use to process the request for data. For example payload can include session information from a client device information from a user interface e.g. form information and or any other data from a client device.

On the other hand if payload includes instructions that modify a resource at a router access control information can include authorization information that grants Interest the necessary permission to modify resources at the router. Payload can include instructions to manipulate resources of a CCN NDN or ICN architecture such a Forwarding Information Base FIB a Pending Interest Table PIT and a Content Store CS . When the payload instructions are executed by the router cause the router to manipulate or otherwise perform operations on the resource. These payload instructions can include a script e.g. instruction written in an interpreted language or can include a standalone program e.g. binary instructions executed by a processor or a virtual machine .

For example a FIB a PIT and a CS can each store data that can be used to forward an Interest packet or for caching or returning data e.g. a Content Object . Hence payload can include instructions for the basic functions that can be performed on persistence storage such as create read update and delete CRUD . The network node can execute the payload s instructions to perform these functions on a local resource. A create operation can cause the network node to create an entry in a resource and a read operation can cause the network node to read an entry from the resource. An update operation can cause the network node to update an existing resource entry and a delete operation can cause the network node to delete an existing entry of the resource.

In some embodiments the instructions in payload can also perform custom operations on a FIB entry to dynamically change routes on the fly as the Interest packet traverses the network toward a target network node that is to consume Interest packet . For example the payload instructions can remove FIB entries for failed links or can update the FIB in a way that diverts network traffic away from over utilized interfaces and toward less utilized interfaces.

Payload can also include instructions for any other network device resources now known or later developed. These additional resources can support additional features that are deployed at a network node or can support additional features of a higher level named data networking architecture or information centric networking architecture. For example network nodes can also include a metrics resource that records various metrics for the network node. The instructions can cause the network node to compile a report of various performance metrics from the metrics resource to generate a Content Object that includes the metrics report and to return the Content Object over the named data network. The network node can also forward the Interest to other network nodes to compile a report at the other network nodes.

As another example network nodes can include a QoS resource that manages routing behavior at the network nodes. Payload can include instructions that create or update a traffic shaping configuration into the QoS resource. This traffic shaping configuration can indicate for example a maximum bandwidth for a given interface. Also the payload instructions can also read or delete a traffic shaping configuration for a given interface.

Table 1 presents an exemplary set of CRUD operations that can be performed on various router resources. When the router detects that an Interest s payload includes instructions to execute the router can execute these instructions to perform various operations on one or more resources. An example set of resources is listed in the top row of TABLE 1 and the possible operations on these resources are listed in the first column of TABLE 1.

If the Interest packet does not include a payload the network node can process the Interest packet as a legacy Interest packet by forwarding the Interest packet over a named data network operation . Specifically the network node can perform a lookup in a forwarding information base FIB to determine an interface or a virtual interface associated with the Interest s name or name prefix and uses this interface or virtual interface to forward the Interest packet.

However if the Interest packet does include a payload the network node can process the Interest s payload before forwarding the Interest over the named data network. In some embodiments the payload may be intended for a target computing device associated with the Interest s name or name prefix. For example a data producer may advertise one or more names e.g. using CCN SYNC to obtain Interests associated with these names. In some other embodiments the payload may be intended for one or more intermediate network nodes along a path toward the Interest s target computing device. These network nodes can process the payload to configure one or more local resources. These resources can include a forwarding information base FIB a pending interest table PIT a content store CS a repository and or any other resources now known or later developed. The network node s resources can also include any other resource accessible to a computing device such as a processing unit a memory a non volatile storage device a network interface etc.

While processing the payload the network node can determine one or more target recipients for the Interest s payload operation . The network node can determine the target recipients by analyzing parameters within the Interest s name or within metadata in the payload to determine the type of data in the payload to determine how the payload is to be processed and or to determine names and or network addresses for the network nodes that are to process the payload. For example the network node can determine that the intended recipient is a server or client computer that is to consume the Interest when the payload includes data whose name matches the Interest s name or name prefix e.g. as determined from metadata in the payload . As another example the network node can analyze the payload s metadata to determine one or more other structured names name prefix or network addresses that identify one or more network nodes that are to process the Interest s payload as the intended recipients of the payload.

The network node then determines how to process the Interest and its payload depending on who the intended recipients are for the payload operation . If the intended recipient for the payload includes the Interest s intended recipient e.g. a custodian or a content producer associated with the Interest s name or name prefix the network node can cache the payload s data in a local repository in association with the Interest s name or name prefix operation . For example a content distribution server can pre cache data at various network nodes by disseminating an Interest whose payload includes the data to pre cache in association with the Interest s name. This Interest effectively pushes the payload to one or more servers or client devices that have subscribed to the Interest s name or name prefix and also allows the network nodes along the paths to the Interest s recipients to cache the payload. After caching the payload the network node can proceed to forward the interest packet via the named data network operation .

If the intended recipients for the Interest s payload include the local network node the local network node can process the payload s data locally for example to configure one or more resources of the local network node operation . The payload can include program instructions a binary executable file a virtual machine executable file a script etc. The payload can also include a configuration file that indicates one or more settings that are to be applied to the local network node. The network node can parse the configuration file to determine these configuration settings and applies these settings to the local resources. For example the configuration settings can include data to insert into an FIB entry into a PIT entry or into a CS entry. After processing the payload the network node can proceed to operation to forward the Interest via the named data network.

In some embodiments if the payload is intended for other network nodes e.g. the local network node is not associated with a name or name prefix indicated in metadata within the Interest s payload the local network node can proceed to operation to forward the Interest packet without caching or processing the Interest s payload.

In some embodiments the Interest s payload can include metadata associated with the payload s data. This metadata can include a name for the payload s data and can include a data type for the payload s data. The network node may determine that the payload is to be cached for example in response to determining that the payload includes data that is intended for the same target device that is to consume the Interest and determining that the payload s data type falls within a set of file types. The network node may determine that the payload is intended for the same target device that is to consume the Interest by determining that the Interest s name or name prefix matches a name for the payload s data.

If the payload s data is to be cached the network node proceeds to cache the payload s data in a local content store operation and forwards the interest packet via a named data network operation . However if the payload s data is not to be cached the network node can proceed to forward the Interest packet without caching the payload in the local content store.

However if the Interest does have valid permissions to modify a resource the network node can proceed to determine whether the Interest s payload carries executable instructions operation . These executable instructions can include CRUD operations that create update and or delete entries in a FIB a PIT and or a CS. If the payload carries executable instructions the network node processes the payload by executing the instructions to configure resources of the local network node operation and proceeds to operation to forward the Interest over the named data network.

If the payload does not include executable instructions the network node can parse a configuration file in the Interest s payload to determine configuration information operation and configures one or more resources of the local network node using the configuration information operation . For example the configuration file can include an extensible markup language XML document that indicates one or more resources indicates one or more configuration variables for each listed resource and indicates a configuration value for each configuration variable. The network node can also proceed to operation to forward the Interest packet via the named data network.

However if the Interest does include a payload the target network device can determine how the payload is to be processed based on the Interest s name or name prefix and or based on metadata in the Interest s payload operation . For example the name or the metadata may indicate a data type for the payload. The network device can determine an operation to perform on the payload based on the data type and performs this operation on the Interest s payload to process the payload.

In some embodiments the Interest may include a payload to push data to the local network device. The network device can analyze the Interest s name and or metadata to determine a local application that is to receive the payload s data and processes the Interest s payload by pushing the payload to the application.

In some embodiments the network device can also process the Interest to return a Content Object over the named data network. For example the network device may include a content producer that hosts or generates content to satisfy an Interest from a client device. When the network device receives the Interest the network device can process the Interest s payload to obtain information that the network device uses to select or generate content for the client device. This information can include for example access control information that grants the client device access to the Content Object or can includes information necessary for generating the Content Object.

In some embodiments an Interest payload can include a payload that carries instructions that deposit FIB entries into various network nodes along a path toward a content producer associated with the Interest s name or name prefix. These network nodes can belong to a named data network or to any information centric network now known or later developed. For example a content producer can use multiple servers to host content that is to be made available to a plurality of consumers. When the content producer uploads new content to any of these servers the content producer can disseminate an Interest packet whose payload instructions cause the network nodes to create or update a FIB entry for a given name or name prefix. At each network node the FIB entry indicates a local interface that the network node is to use to forward Interest packets that match the given name or name prefix toward any of the content producer s servers.

In a CCN architecture a forwarding node e.g. a router can perform a read operation on a FIB to determine an interface or a virtual interface to use to forward an Interest packet. If a FIB entry that matches the Interest s name or name prefix does not exist the forwarding node performs a default action such as to forward the Interest to a default interface associated with a root namespace e.g. the namespace . In some embodiments an Interest s payload can include instructions that are to be used as default operations that the forwarding node executes when a matching FIB entry does not exist.

Alternatively the Interest s payload can indicate a default outbound interface of the network node that leads to a default server that knows how to reach the target network node or can indicate an alternative name or name prefix associated with the default server. The content producer can tunnel a path to the default server in a way that creates or writes FIB entries along this path. This way when a packet associated with the content producer reaches the default server the default server can forward the packet along an established path to the content producer.

In a CCN architecture a network node reads a PIT entry to forward an Interest through an interface that has been mapped to that Interest s name. In some embodiments of the present invention an Interest can include a payload that carries instructions that update a PIT entry to redirect a path for a given namespace. For example when a network node goes offline or an ISP takes the node offline the ISP can generate an Interest that includes payload instructions to redirect the network path away from the offline node. The Interest s name or name prefix can be associated with a network node at which the network path is to be redirected which allows the named data network or information centric network to forward the Interest to this network node. Also the Interest s payload can include instructions to update PIT entries that formed a network path through the offline node so that the updated PIT entries form a path through an alternative network node.

In a typical CCN architecture when a content producer receives an Interest the content producer can return a Content Object that satisfies the Interest and forwarding nodes throughout the network can cache the Content Object in a Content Store CS . This allows the forwarding nodes to satisfy other Interests for the same Content Object without having to forward the Interest to the content producer. However a content producer may not always want the Content Objects to be cached or to remain cached for an extended period of time such as for short lived data e.g. a stock quote or for user specific data e.g. private account information .

In some embodiments a content producer can utilize Interest payloads to perform cache management across various forwarding nodes that have been configured to cache content for the content producer. This allows the content producer to specify which packets are to have their payload cached and to specify which cached data need to be updated replaced or deleted. For example an online streaming service such as Netflix Inc. may lease storage space across various edge nodes of an Internet service provider s network to store popular media streams. This allows the content producer to control which media streams are to be cached at any given point in time. A particular video may be popular for two weeks after it is made available via the service but the demand for this video may diminish thereafter. In some instances the ISP s cache servers may continue to store the video until other popular data needs to occupy the storage space which can cause the ISP s cache servers to store the video even after its popularity has dwindled. Once the content producer determines that interest in the video has decayed below a given threshold the content producer can disseminate an Interest whose payload includes instructions that proactively purges this video from the ISP s cache servers to reduce the storage fees the content producer pays to the ISP.

Also the content producer can push data to a client device without caching this data at the ISP s cache servers for example by generating the Interest that includes a payload carrying the data and carrying metadata indicating that the payload data is not to be cached. This can ensure that sensitive data unpopular data or time specific data does not occupy valuable space at a content store.

In some embodiments a content producer can purge cached data from various network nodes by disseminating an Interest that includes instructions that are to be used by these network nodes to delete any entries that match a given name or name prefix e.g. the Interest s name or a name specified in the payload . For example an online service can allow forwarding nodes to cache the user s information while the online service has an active session with the user. The online service may assign to each piece of data a namespace associated with the user or the user s session which allows the forwarding nodes to use this common namespace to cache data that has been sent to the user s device. Once the user s session has timed out or has been terminated by the user the online service can disseminate an Interest whose payload includes instructions that delete any entries that match the namespace. Alternatively the user s client device can disseminate an Interest that is to traverse a path to the content producer and that includes instructions to delete any Content Objects from the content store that fall under the namespace.

As a further example the online service may periodically push data to various client devices through a persistent tunnel and various forwarding nodes can cache the data to satisfy new requests for the data e.g. to satisfy an Interest . If the data becomes obsolete the online service can disseminate an Interest whose payload includes a namespace that matches the cached data and includes instructions that delete any cached data with a name prefix that matches this namespace. The online service can also replace the obsolete data in the CS by creating an Interest that includes the new data in its payload and includes instructions to update any CS entries associated with a given name or name prefix. For example an online brokerage company can periodically push new stock quotes to its users by generating an Interest for each updated stock quote such that this Interest includes a payload carrying the updated stock quotes and instructions that update replace an older version of the stock quote with the updated stock quote.

In some embodiments a system administrator can generate and disseminate an Interest packet that allows the administrator to gather utilization statistics from various forwarding nodes and cache servers. The system administrator can obtain utilization statistics at a particular resource by generating an Interest that includes a payload carrying instructions that reads and or compiles the utilization statistics from the resource.

For example the system administrator can obtain utilization statistics at a particular router interface by generating an Interest that is directed to the router s interface. The Interest can include a name or name prefix associated with the router and can include instructions that read and compile utilization statistics associated with this interface. The Interest s payload can include parameters that indicate which types of utilization statistics are to be gathered. These utilization statistics can include a network bandwidth being utilized by a given interface a number of packets that have been received and or transmitted over a given time interval by a given interface a utilization for a particular link a bandwidth utilization for a given link etc.

As another example the system administrator can obtain utilization statistics from a given content store by generating an Interest that includes a name that s mapped to the content store. The Interest can also include a payload carrying instructions that compile the desired utilization statistics. The Interest s payload can also include parameters that indicate the utilization statistics that are to be gathered such as a number of Content Objects cached for a given namespace or a size of the data stored for a given namespace.

In some embodiments communication module can receive an Interest packet that includes a name or a name prefix associated with one or more target entities for the Interest. Interest processing module can determining whether the Interest packet includes a payload to process. Operation determining module can determine a payload processing operation to perform to process the payload. Payload processing module can process the payload by performing the determined operation.

Interest processing system can include instructions which when executed by computer system can cause computer system to perform methods and or processes described in this disclosure. Specifically Interest processing system may include instructions for receiving an Interest packet that includes a name or a name prefix associated with one or more target entities for the Interest communication module . Further Interest processing system can include instructions for determining whether the Interest packet includes a payload to process Interest processing module . Interest processing system can also include instructions for determining a payload processing operation to perform to process the payload operation determining module . Interest processing system can also include instructions for processing the payload by performing the determined operation payload processing module .

Data can include any data that is required as input or that is generated as output by the methods and or processes described in this disclosure. Specifically data can store at least a FIB a PIT and a Content Store CS and information necessary for performing operations on the FIB the PIT and or the CS.

The data structures and code described in this detailed description are typically stored on a computer readable storage medium which may be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by a computer system. The computer readable storage medium includes but is not limited to volatile memory non volatile memory magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact discs DVDs digital versatile discs or digital video discs or other media capable of storing computer readable media now known or later developed.

The methods and processes described in the detailed description section can be embodied as code and or data which can be stored in a computer readable storage medium as described above. When a computer system reads and executes the code and or data stored on the computer readable storage medium the computer system performs the methods and processes embodied as data structures and code and stored within the computer readable storage medium.

Furthermore the methods and processes described above can be included in hardware modules. For example the hardware modules can include but are not limited to application specific integrated circuit ASIC chips field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and other programmable logic devices now known or later developed. When the hardware modules are activated the hardware modules perform the methods and processes included within the hardware modules.

The foregoing descriptions of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the forms disclosed. Accordingly many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. Additionally the above disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention. The scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims.

