---

title: Resource locators with keys
abstract: Requests are pre-generated to include a cryptographic key to be used in fulfilling the requests. The requests may be encoded in uniform resource locators and may include authentication information to enable a service provider to whom the requests are submitted to determine whether the requests are authorized. The requests may be passed to various entities who can then submit the requests to the service provider. The service provider, upon receipt of a request, can verify the authentication information and fulfill the request using a cryptographic key encoded in the request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09237019&OS=09237019&RS=09237019
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09237019
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130925
---
This application incorporates by reference for all purposes the full disclosure of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 037 292 filed concurrently herewith entitled DATA SECURITY USING REQUEST SUPPLIED KEYS .

The security of computing resources and associated data is of high importance in many contexts. As an example organizations often utilize networks of computing devices to provide a robust set of services to their users. Networks often span multiple geographic boundaries and often connect with other networks. An organization for example may support its operations using both internal networks of computing resources and computing resources managed by others. Computers of the organization for instance may communicate with computers of other organizations to access and or provide data while using services of another organization. In many instances organizations configure and operate remote networks using hardware managed by other organizations thereby reducing infrastructure costs and achieving other advantages. With such configurations of computing resources ensuring that access to the resources and the data they hold is secure can be challenging especially as the size and complexity of such configurations grow.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Techniques described and suggested herein include uses of uniform resource locators URLs and other references to computing resources generally resource locators to enable access to services of a service provider. While URLs are used throughout the present disclosure for the purpose of illustration it should be understood that the techniques described herein are generally applicable to other resource locators i.e. instances of information usable by a system to locate a computing resource within the system . Moreover the techniques described herein are generally applicable to electronic requests.

In an embodiment a customer of a service provider e.g. computing resource service provider utilizes one or more services of the service provider. As an example the customer may utilize data storage services of the service provider to achieve various advantages such as reduced capital expense simpler data management higher availability lower latency due to distributed data processing facilities and the like. To enable others e.g. customers of the customer or generally users authorized by the customer to access resources of the customer managed by the provider the customer may utilize pre signed URLs. To generate a pre signed URL the customer may generate a URL or generally a request and an electronic digital signature of a portion of the URL. The portion of the URL used to generate the electronic signature may include a cryptographic key to be used in processing the request. The cryptographic key may be provided in various forms. For example the cryptographic key may be a plaintext symmetric key a plaintext public key of a public private key pair or a symmetric key encrypted in a way that the service provider is able to decrypt or have decrypted to use the key to perform one or more cryptographic operations to fulfill the request.

Generally the URL may be configured to encode a request a cryptographic key and authorization information which may include authentication information e.g. electronic signature usable to verify the request. The URL may be provided from the customer to another entity not necessarily a third party that while referred to in the present disclosure as a third party can be any entity authorized by the customer to cause the service provider to fulfill the request. The URL may be provided to the third party in various ways. For example in some embodiments the URL is provided in a web page or other organization of content transmitted over a network to the third party. Providing of the URL may be subject to one or more conditions such as receipt of valid login credentials from the third party receipt of payment or a promise to pay from the third party and or other conditions.

The third party may submit the request to the service provider to cause the service provider to fulfill the request. Prior to submission of the request the third party may add additional information to the request such as data to be operated on and or one or more values of one or more parameters that indicate to the service provider how the request is to be processed. For example the parameters may specify a selection of an encryption scheme and or mode of an encryption scheme to use from a plurality of encryption schemes modes that the service provider is configured with the ability to use.

Upon receipt of the request the service provider may check the validity of the electronic signature to determine whether to fulfill the request. Other operations may be performed in determining whether to fulfill the request such as determining whether fulfillment of the request would be in compliance with any applicable policy and or with one or more parameters e.g. expiration encoded in the request e.g. encoded as part of the authorization information . For requests that the service provider deems fulfillable the service provider may extract a cryptographic key from the request decrypt the extracted cryptographic key if applicable and perform one or more operations involved in fulfillment of the request. A response to the customer may be provided such as an acknowledgment that the request was fulfilled and or a result of performance of the one or more operations e.g. data decrypted using a key provided in the request .

As noted above the customer may have one or more of its own customers and accordingly various techniques of the present disclosure relate to allowing the customer to provide services to its customers utilizing services of the service provider without having to serve as a proxy for data stored by the service provider . One way of doing this as illustrated in includes the customer providing a URL to a third party who may be a customer of the customer or generally a user of services of the customer . As noted in more detail below the URL may be provided from the customer to the third party in various ways.

As discussed in more detail below one way of providing the URL to the third party may be by the use of a webpage or other interface that encodes the URL so as to be selectable by a human operator of the third party . As an illustrative example a human operator with an account with the customer may log into a website of the customer and as a result of having logged in may have access to the URL . The URL may be provided from the customer to the third party in other ways as well. For example the URL may be encoded in an electronic mail message or other message from the customer to the third party . As another example the URL may be encoded in a document that is provided by in any suitable manner from the customer to the third party . Generally any method by which the third party has access to the URL is considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure whether or not providing access includes transmission of the URL over a network to the third party .

It should be noted that illustrates flow of information between a customer and a third party who may be entities such as organizations and or individuals. While the data is shown as flowing between the entities it should be understood that unless otherwise clear from context the data is transferred by way of suitable computing devices of the respective entities examples of which are described below in connection with . As an example the URL may be provided from the customer from a web or other server of a customer . Similarly a human operator of the third party may receive the URL by way of a suitable device such as a personal computer mobile device tablet computing device electronic book reader or generally any device configured to receive information through a network or other data receiving interface.

It should also be noted that while shows the URL being provided directly from the customer to the third party the URL may be provided in various ways in accordance with various embodiments. As noted above for example a server of the customer may provide the URL to the third party such as encoded in a web page provided to the customer . Such a server however may be implemented using computing resources for example virtual computer system and or one or more storage devices hosted by the service provider . In other words while the customer may have control over providing the URL to the third party the resources by which the URL is provided to the third party may not be directly hosted by the customer . In addition the URL may pass through one or more intermediaries which are not illustrated in . Other variations are also considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure.

As noted the third party upon receipt of the URL can use the URL to access services of the service provider . As an example which will be used throughout the present disclosure the third party can use the URL to access data stored by the service provider on behalf of the customer . In other words the customer of the service provider can use the URL to allow third party to obtain access to one or more computing resources such as media files posted by the service provider . It should be noted that while access to data e.g. data retrieval is used as an illustrative example throughout the present disclosure the techniques described herein can be used to provide access to services in numerous ways. For example the URL may be used to allow third party to store data using resources of the service provider . Such use may be useful for example in instances when the customer provides third parties the ability to store data as part of its service offerings. Generally the URL may be used to provide access in any way in accordance with requests fulfillable by the service provider .

Returning to the illustrated embodiment to gain access to resources hosted by the service provider the third party may provide the URL to the service provider . Various information may be included in the URL to enable the service provider to determine how and or whether to fulfill a request submitted by the third party to the service provider using the URL . For example as illustrated in the URL includes an electronic signature which is verifiable by the service provider by way of having access to a signature verification key corresponding to the customer . The signature verification key may be for example a symmetric cryptographic key to which the customer also has access. In such an embodiment the service provider can verify the electronic signature using one or more symmetric cryptographic signature verification algorithms in order to determine that the third party is authorized by the customer to submit a request using the URL . As another example the signature verification key can be a public key of a public private key pair where the customer has access to a private key of the public private key pair. The customer may generate the electronic signature using the private key which is may then be verified by the service provider upon receipt of the signature from the third party . Generally any type of information included in the URL that allows the service provider to determine that a request from the customer submitted using the URL is authorized by the customer may be used.

As illustrated in the URL may also include a cryptographic key . The cryptographic key may be a cryptographic key to which the customer has access. The type of cryptographic key included in the URL may vary in accordance with various embodiments. In some embodiments for example the cryptographic key is a symmetric key to be used for encryption or decryption by the service provider . As another example the cryptographic key may be a public key of a public private key pair to which the private key is held by the customer but to which access is lacked by the service provider . As yet another example the cryptographic key may be included in the URL there may be a symmetric key included in the URL in a form that is encrypted under another key where the other key may vary in accordance with various embodiments but is generally a key such that upon receipt of the URL from the third party the service provider is able to either on its own by use of another service e.g. another third party service to decrypt the cryptographic key for use. Generally any way by which the cryptographic key may be provided in the URL to the third party to enable the third party to provide the URL to the service provider to enable the service provider to use the cryptographic key for one or more operations may be used. In this manner the third party is able to utilize the services of the service provider using the cryptographic key provided by the customer .

As an illustrative example of one way in which this is useful the customer may store data utilizing a data storage service of the service provider where the data is stored in encrypted form using a key inaccessible to the service provider . By including the cryptographic key in the URL to the third party the third party can submit a request to the service provider using the URL in order to enable the service provider to use the cryptographic key to decrypt the data stored in the data storage service by the customer . Thus until the service provider is provided the URL the service provider does not have an ability to access data of the customer in plaintext form. It should be noted that the third party may submit the request to the service provider using the URL in various ways. For example an application of the third party may provide the URL as part of a selectable user interface element on a graphical user interface. Upon selection of the selectable element an application such as a browser of the third party may contact a domain name service DNS in order to determine an internet protocol IP address to which a request should be submitted. A request may then be submitted to the IP address where the request may include the URL . Information in the URL may then enable the service provider to process the request accordingly.

When a request is received through the customer interface the request may be received with appropriate authenticating information. For example as illustrated in a request may be received with a URL that includes a signature of a portion of the URL. The signature may be generated in accordance with various embodiments. For example a customer that generated the URL may generate the signature using secret information shared between the customer and the service provider . As another example a customer may have used an asymmetric digital signature scheme to sign the URL using a private key of a private public key pair. Generally any type of information which is used to authenticate the URL may be used and in some embodiments requests may be submitted without such information.

As illustrated in however when a request is received through the customer interface a URL of the request is provided e.g. over an internal network of the service provider with the signature to an authentication system of the service provider . Alternatively a portion of the URL sufficient for generating the electronic signature may be provided instead of the whole URL. The authentication system may be a subsystem of the service provider configured to authenticate requests such as by verifying electronic signatures provided with URLs included with requests. Upon verifying the signature of the URL the authentication system may provide a response to the customer interface that indicates whether the signature is valid. A device e.g. web server of the customer interface may use the information provided by the authentication system to determine how to process the URL . For example if the authentication system indicates that the signature is invalid the customer interface may deny the request. Similarly if the information from authentication system indicates that the signature of the URL is valid the customer interface may cause the request to be processed.

While not illustrated in the figure the authentication system or another system operating within or on behalf of the service provider may operate to perform other operations in connection with determining how to process requests. For example the authentication system or another system operating in cooperation therewith may be used to check one or more policies which may be determinative of whether the request can be fulfilled. Policy determinations may be made based at least in part on various factors such as an identity of the requestor that submitted the request a time of day a logical identifier for a location in which data is stored or is to be stored and other contextual information. Policy may be managed through the customer interface or another interface through appropriately configured application programming interface API calls.

Returning to the embodiment illustrated in if the authentication system determines that the signature is valid the customer interface may determine to process the request. Processing the request may involve the transfer of encrypted data between the customer interface and request processing infrastructure . The request processing infrastructure may comprise one or more devices that collectively operate to provide a service of the service provider . For example as illustrated in the request processing infrastructure may comprise a plurality of data storage system used to store data on behalf of customer of the service provider . Other infrastructure including networking infrastructure while not illustrated may also be included. The passage of data e.g. over a network between the customer interface and the request processing infrastructure may occur in various ways in accordance with various embodiments in accordance with the various types of requests that may be submitted through the customer interface . For example if the URL is included in a request to store data a customer interface may utilize a key provided in the URL to encrypt the data and transmit the encrypted data to the request processing infrastructure for storage in one or more of the data storage systems .

Similarly if the request is a request to retrieve data a customer interface may transmit a communication to the request processing infrastructure that allows data from one or more of the data storage systems to be provided to the customer interface . The customer interface may then use a key provided in the URL to decrypt the encrypted data and provide the decrypted data to the customer that submitted the request. It should be noted that the environment of the service provider illustrated in is simplified for the purpose of illustration and that numerous other devices and subsystems such as accounting systems that keep track of usage of the service provider by customers may also be included. Further a service provider may include facilities located in different geographical locations for the purpose of redundancy and or availability.

As illustrated the URL includes an expiration . The expiration may encode a value for a time at which the URL ceases to be useable for submission of fulfillable requests to a service provider. In other words the expiration indicates a time at which otherwise fulfillable requests submitted using the URL become unfulfillable as a result of reaching the time. As an example referring to a customer wishing to provide temporary access to certain data may utilize an expiration in the URL in order to limit the amount of time the URL is useable to the third part . The expiration may be included in data of the URL used to generate the electronic signature in order to ensure that the signature is only valid when the expiration has not been modified since issuance by the customer. In this manner access to the URL at a time after the expiration does not provide an ability to access data by simply modifying the expiration. A service provider receiving the URL when determining whether to fulfill a request may utilize the expiration and or other information to determine whether to fulfill a request. For example if the URL provided with a request prior to the expiration the service provider may fulfill the request assuming all other requirements for fulfillment of the request if any have been fulfilled . Similarly if the URL is provided in connection with the request to the service provider after the expiration the service provider may deny despite any other requirements for fulfillment of the request being satisfied. It should be noted that while expiration is used throughout the present disclosure as a parameter that potentially is determinative of whether a provider will fulfill a request criteria for fulfillment of a request may be more complex. For example criteria for fulfillment of a request may be configured such that a request is fulfillable despite an expiration time having passed. Other contextual information e.g. an identity of a requestor may for instance supersede the expiration.

As illustrated the URL may also include other parameters . The other parameters may be parameters which enable the service provider to determine if and or how to fulfill a request. For example as noted above the URL may include an expiration . Another parameter included in the other parameters may be a start time indicating a time at which the URL become useable for submission of requests to a service provider. A combination of a start time and an expiration time may provide a time window during which a request submitted using the URL is fulfillable. A start time is useful for example in instances where access to data is to be prevented until a certain time e.g. a release of a media file . Thus a customer of a service provider can pre generate one or more URLs that will provide access to data or otherwise will be useable to submit fulfillable requests to a service provider at a later time. Such ability to pre generate URLs that will at a future time enable access to data provide technical advantages such as the ability to pre prime a content delivery network CDN and or pre configure content with URLs without providing access to certain data until such access is desired to be given.

Referring to the other parameters of the URL illustrated in may include other information added by a third party including but not limited to data on which one or more cryptographic operations are to be performed using the cryptographic key or when referring to parameters for how fulfillment of a request is to be performed.

The URL is illustrated in a particular way to illustrate various aspects of the present disclosure. Numerous variations are considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure. For example as illustrated in the URL shows a cryptographic key inside of a signed portion of the URL . In addition to or as an alternative to a cryptographic key inside of the signed portion of the URL an unsigned portion of a URL may comprise a cryptographic key. For example in some embodiments a customer of a service provider may provide a URL with a signed portion to a third party. The third party may add a cryptographic key to the URL and use the URL with additional cryptographic key to submit a request to the service provider where fulfillment of the request is authorized by the customer via the signature generated based at least in part on the signed portion of the URL. In this manner the third party may utilize one or more services of the service provider without providing access to the cryptographic key to either the service provider except when performing one or more cryptographic operations as part of fulfilling a request or the customer. Thus a security breach or other event at either the customer or the service provider does not provide access to the cryptographic key and therefore does not enable access to data in plaintext form. Further cryptographic operations may be performed using both a key in a signed portion of a URL supplied by a customer and a key in an unsigned portion of the URL supplied by the third party . In this manner cooperation between both the third party and the customer is required for access to data in plaintext form. Other variations including variations where a key of the service provider is used alternatively or in addition are also considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure.

Once the portion of the URL to be signed has been generated the process may include using a signing key to sign the generated portion of the URL. The signing key may be any cryptographic key that when used to generate an electronic signature renders the electronic signature verifiable by a service provider to which the URL is submittable. For example in some embodiments the signing key may be secret information shared between an entity performing the process and the service provider. In other embodiments the signing key may be a private key of a public private key pair where the service provider can utilize a public key of the public private key pair and possibly a certificate authority to verify the electronic signature. It should be noted that while shows the portion of the URL that is signed containing the cryptographic key some embodiments may have the signing key included outside of the portion of the URL that is signed. Such inclusion of the cryptographic key may be used for example where forgery of the key is not an issue. For instance if the URL is usable to access data from data storage a modified cryptographic key would generally be unusable to decrypt data and as a result there may not be a need to protect against modification of the key.

Once the signing key has been used to generate an electronic signature of the generated portion of the URL the process may include completing construction of the URL to include the electronic signature. As discussed other information such as additional parameters for the URL may also be used to complete construction of the URL. Once complete the process may include providing the complete URL to a third party. The third party may be for example a customer of an entity performing the process such as described above. Providing the complete URL to the third party may be performed in various ways in accordance with various embodiments. For example as discussed in more detail below the URL may be provided in a webpage to the third party where one or more requirements for access to the webpage may be required before the webpage is provided. As an illustrative example the third party may be required to perform a login sign in procedures in order to access the webpage having the complete URL. Generally the URL may be provided in any way such as in an electronic message or in any way by which data may be passed from one system to another. Further it should be noted that while a third party is used for the purpose of illustration the entity to which the URL is provided is not necessarily a third party to the provider or the customer. For example in an embodiment where the process is performed by a system of an organization the techniques described herein may be used to provide to access to data to employees of the organization. Thus instead of a third party URL may be provided to a user within the organization for which the process is performed. Other variations are also considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure.

As illustrated in the webpage includes various graphical user interface elements that enable navigation throughout a website of which the webpage is a part. In this example the webpage is part of an electronic commerce website that provides access to video content such as by providing streaming video content to one or more customers. For instance on the left hand side of the webpage various links to various video genres are provided. In this example the links appears as textual words which enable the links to be selected using an appropriate input device such as a keyboard mouse touchscreen or other input device. Selection of a link may cause an application causing the webpage to be displayed to submit pursuant to a URL associated with the link by the programming of the webpage an http request to a server that provided the webpage or another server. In this example the webpage also includes a graphical user element configured as a play button . The play button may be a graphical user interface element of the webpage where the underlying code of the webpage is configured such that selection by an input device of the button causes a request to be submitted to an appropriate server.

In this example the code of the webpage includes a URL which may be configured in accordance with the various techniques described herein. In this illustrative example the URL includes a path to a resource which in this instance is a video file. The URL may also include a cryptographic key an expiration and an electronic signature . The electronic signature may be generated at least in part on the path cryptographic key and expiration and or other information. Generally the URL may include additional information that is not illustrated in the figure. Accordingly when a user selects the button an appropriately configured request in this example an http request is submitted to a server using the URL . While not illustrated in the figures such a request may be submitted by using the path in the URL to obtain an IP address of a server from a domain name service DNS and submitting the request with URL over the internet or other network to the IP address.

A device processing the webpage may receive a response which if the URL is valid at the time of submission of the request may include the resource to which the path points. As noted elsewhere herein if the URL is invalid for example because it was submitted past the expiration or the URL was modified such a request may be denied.

Adding to the obtained URL may include adding information to a portion of the URL outside of a portion used to generate an electronic signature that was included with the obtain URL. In this manner information can be added to the URL without invalidating the electronic signature. Once the obtained URL has been used to submit a request to the provider the process may assuming the request was properly submitted and otherwise fulfillable obtain a result of processing the request from the provider. For example depending on one or more operations specified by the request the result may be included in a response from the provider. As an example if the request was to encrypt or decrypt data provided with or otherwise specified by the request the result obtained may include encrypted or decrypted data as appropriate. Generally depending on the cryptographic operations performed using the cryptographic key provided in the request the result obtained may vary.

If determined that the signature is invalid the process may include denying the request. The request may be denied in various ways in accordance with various embodiments such as by transmitting a communication indicated that the request was denied and or one or more reasons for its denial. Other ways by which a request may be denied may also be used such as by simply not fulfilling the request without necessarily transmitting a communication in response to the request. Generally any way by which a request may be denied may be used. If however it is determined that the signature is valid the process may include extracting a cryptographic key from the URL that was received . The extracted cryptographic key may be used to process i.e. fulfill the request. Processing the request may include using the cryptographic key to perform one or more cryptographic operations on data included with or otherwise specified by the request. A response to the request may be provided . Providing the response may include providing a result of performance of one or more cryptographic operations using the cryptographic key e.g. encrypted data decrypted data and or an electronic signature and or an acknowledgment that such operations were performed.

While the process is described in a particular way for the purpose of illustration variations are considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure. For example shows the request being processed on the condition that the signature is valid. However one or more other operations may be performed to determine whether to process the request. As one example determining whether the request is valid may include checking whether the request complies with policy. Accordingly policy configured by a customer of the service provider may be checked in order to determine whether fulfillment of the request is in compliance with the policy. Further as noted above URLs may contain various contextual conditions about if and or how the request should be performed. Accordingly determining whether the request is valid during performance of the process may include checking whether such conditions are fulfilled and or processing the request in accordance with such information included in the URL. Generally fulfillment of the request may require one or more conditions to be satisfied and the manner in which a request is fulfilled may be at least partially dependent on parameters specified in the request.

Further in some embodiments upon use of the cryptographic key the process may include performing one or more operations that cause access to the cryptographic key by a system and generally by entity for which the process is performed to be lost. The operations that cause a loss of access to the cryptographic key may include for example overwriting one or more memory locations in which the cryptographic key is stored and or taking one or more actions that allow such memory locations to be overwritten such as in order to process subsequent requests. Generally any operations which cause access to the cryptographic key to be lost immediately or eventually may be performed. In this manner the customer that supplied the key in the URL can be ensured that the service provider has access to the cryptographic key for a limited duration corresponding to when the cryptographic key is needed to fulfill a request. Other variations are also considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure.

Returning to the illustrative example of the customer may construct a URL with the wrapped secret. The URL may be constructed such as described above. A customer then may sign the URL by generating an electronic signature of the constructed URL using an appropriate signing key. The URL may then be completed to include the electronic signature. The completed URL may then be provided to a third party such as described above. Upon having been provided the completed URL a third party may use the completed URL to submit a request to the provider. As one example the URL may be coded in a webpage or other content to be selectable by a user of the third party to cause an application of the third party to submit a request to the provider using the completed URL.

Once the request has been submitted to the provider the provider may canonicalize and validate the request. It should be noted that canonicalization may be performed to reverse the various ways by which requests may be mutated during their transmission from one entity to another. Canonicalization may be performed for instance in order to ensure that validation of the electronic signature is performed correctly. For example additional characters inserted into the request or removed from the request may be removed and or added as appropriate in order to ensure that if the request is valid the electronic signature will be valid as well. A provider upon validation of the request may unwrap the encryption secret by performing or otherwise causing to have performed an appropriate cryptographic algorithm to decrypt the encryption secret. The encryption secret may then be used to process the request and the provider may respond to the third party request such as providing a result of performance of the one or more cryptographic operations that the provider performed and or an acknowledgement of their performance. As noted above the provider may then lose access to the encryption secret such as described above.

Other variations are considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure. For example the types and ways in which keys are provided in URLs or generally requests to providers may vary in accordance with various embodiments. Some techniques which may be combined with the techniques of the present disclosure are described in concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 037 292 entitled DATA SECURITY USING REQUEST SUPPLIED KEYS which is incorporated in here by reference for all purposes.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. Servers as used herein may be implemented in various ways such as hardware devices or virtual computer systems. In some contexts servers may refer to a programming module being executed on a computer system. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling some even a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server may provide access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the web server in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the web server. It should be understood that the web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein. Further operations described herein as being performed by a single device may unless otherwise clear from context be performed collectively by multiple devices which may form a distributed system.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect of the present disclosure. For example the data store illustrated may include mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user through a device operated by the user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser. It should be noted however that embodiments of the present disclosure are not necessarily limited to the context of web pages but may be more generally applicable to processing requests in general where the requests are not necessarily requests for content.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop laptop or tablet computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP protocols operating in various layers of the Open System Interconnection OSI model File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a web server the web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from user devices such as by executing one or more web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU or processor at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected when unmodified and referring to physical connections is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The use of the term set e.g. a set of items or subset unless otherwise noted or contradicted by context is to be construed as a nonempty collection comprising one or more members. Further unless otherwise noted or contradicted by context the term subset of a corresponding set does not necessarily denote a proper subset of the corresponding set but the subset and the corresponding set may be equal.

Conjunctive language such as phrases of the form at least one of A B and C or at least one of A B and C unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise clearly contradicted by context is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either A or B or C or any nonempty subset of the set of A and B and C. For instance in the illustrative example of a set having three members used in the above conjunctive phrase at least one of A B and C and at least one of A B and C refers to any of the following sets A B C A B A C B C A B C. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of A at least one of B and at least one of C to each be present.

Operations of processes described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. Processes described herein or variations and or combinations thereof may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for embodiments of the present disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the scope of the present disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

