---

title: Deploying a user-configured virtual appliance template including a portion of an existing computing application to enhance functionality
abstract: Various embodiments provide mechanisms that mitigate organizational exposures when evaluating and choosing computer applications, enhancements, and modifications thereto. Some embodiments provide technological solutions that allow for rapid application prototyping, deployment, evaluation, testing, and the act of going live in a production environment. Some such embodiments provide applications including content and data, in the form of virtual appliance templates, that is pre-installed, pre-configured, pre-tested, and pre-loaded in a very rapid manner. Some embodiments may further allow for cloning of the instantiated application to another virtual computing environment, and utilization from that location on forward looking basis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342330&OS=09342330&RS=09342330
owner: SAP SE
number: 09342330
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130509
---
This application is related and claims benefit to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 645 884 filed May 11 2012 and entitled PREASSEMBLED RAPIDLY DEPLOYABLE SYSTEMS AND COMPONENTS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Many software systems that are implemented or can be implemented within organizations such as Enterprise Resource Planning ERP Customer Relationship Management CRM Accounting and other such systems and add on modules or components thereof are notoriously difficult and expensive to implement configure augment and modify. As a result the organizational exposure in choosing to implement such systems can be quite high. Thus for these and other reasons organizations are often reluctant in deciding to implement or modify these systems.

Various embodiment as illustrated and described herein provide mechanisms that mitigate and even eliminate organizational exposures when evaluating and choosing computer applications enhancements and modifications thereto. Some embodiments provide technological solutions that allow for rapid application prototyping deployment evaluation testing and the act of going live in a production environment. Some such embodiments provide applications including content and data in the form of a virtual appliance templates that are pre installed pre configured pre tested and pre loaded in a very rapid manner. For example some embodiments provide a check box or questionnaire style tool through which a user can provide input as to the requirements and specifications for how a particular application is to be implemented and utilized. Based on that input an appropriate virtual appliance template is selected and instantiated in a virtual computing environment as specified in the input or a location by default. The instantiated application may then be quickly tested and access may be provided to the customer. Some embodiments may further allow for cloning of the instantiated application to another virtual computing environment and utilization from that location on a forward looking basis. These and other embodiments are illustrated and described herein.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In some embodiments the networked computing environment also includes cloud computing environments . Each cloud computing environment is a network resource accessible via the network . The cloud computing devices generally provide one or both of computing and storage capacity via the network as services. A cloud computing environment typically includes a virtualized environment that is logically distinct from other computing environments that may execute on the same hardware but are each individually accessible. Thus one cloud computing environment may include a hardware set such as one or more server computers having one or more virtual machines that each provide a computing environment within which computer applications may execute. In some embodiments an application server or other process within which data and service requests may be received via the network and serviced execute within a virtual machine computing environment. A cloud computing environment may also include a database or other data storage application or arrangement logically located therein. In some embodiments the enterprise computing environment may be a cloud computing environment within which the enterprise applications execute and are accessed by the client computing devices .

Some embodiments include a marketplace network location accessible via the network . The marketplace is a network resource that provides enterprise computing application customers including actual and prospective customers access to computer application resources. Such computer application resources may include entire applications add on or enhancement functionality additional content and other options with regard to computing applications. Such computing applications are typically enterprise computing applications such as ERP CRM accounting and other similar computing applications utilized by organizations. These computing applications may be deployed within the enterprise computing environment within one or more of the cloud computing environments or elsewhere. Thus when a user associated with an organization visits the marketplace the user typically desires to learn about available software applications add on or enhancement functionally additional content and other options with regard to such computing applications the organization has deployed or is considering deploying.

The marketplace may be one or more of a website an app that executes on a computing device or within a computer program such as a web browser or other accessible content or applications that marketplace visitors may utilize. In a typically embodiment the marketplace is a website that delivers information with regard to available computing applications add on or enhancement functionality additional content and other options with regard to computing applications and is accessed via the network utilizing a client computing device . The marketplace may provide marketing content in various forms to generate marketplace visitor interest or knowledge in one or more offerings via the marketplace .

When a visitor is interested the visitor may visit a portion of the marketplace to obtain a cloud hosted demonstration application or add on to an existing application or to select additional content or functionality enhancements for a computing application of an organization. For example the visitor may be with an organization that already has deployed an ERP application and the visitor desires to obtain a demonstration of a Human Resources Management module add on to the ERP application. In another example a visitor does not yet have a computing application offered via the marketplace and provides input requesting a demonstration instance of an entire ERP application. In yet another embodiment a visitor may have a computing application and select an add on or enhancement of the application for deployment thereof right away for productive use. In all of these examples the marketplace provides options for items available via the marketplace and the visitor is provided assistance in choosing and deploying the proper item to a suitable location.

In some embodiments the marketplace provides selectable listings of at least one product offering. The selectable listing may be provided as a set of check boxes as a wizard like process guiding the visitor through a set of options and other listing types as may be relevant based on the context of the offerings and possible configuration and deployment options thereof. In particular each of the items offered via the marketplace in some embodiments may be in the form of virtual appliance templates. Each item offered may exist in the form of multiple virtual appliance templates and the options presented to the marketplace visitor enable selection and deployment of a virtual appliance template configured to meet the requirements and needs of the visitor s organization.

A virtual appliance template may exist for an entire computing application e.g. an ERP CRM FIRM applications add ons or enhancements to an application e.g. business intelligence module mobile module language or other application localization module or content warehouse management logistics processes content e.g. key performance indicators promotional campaign definitions compliance requirements workflow processes data e.g. contact lists and the like. Virtual appliance templates are generally pre assembled pre configured and pre tested for their respective purposes. As such virtual appliance templates are appliance like in that they can essentially be plugged in and they function for their intended purpose.

As a result demonstration systems and modules can be quickly provided to prospective customers for entirely new systems and to enhance or expand existing systems. For purposes of demonstration systems virtual appliance templates may include sample or demonstration data. In some embodiments a visitor may also have options to upload data for a demonstration system or for data to be copied from an existing system to the demonstration system. A rapidly deployed demonstration system quickly provides an organization the ability to try a system or module and evaluate whether the system or module meets their needs and expectations.

The options provided via the selectable listing wizard and the like are related to different functionality and deployment options of the item selected by a visitor. The options also typically include deployment destination options such as deploying a selected item in a cloud and which cloud e.g. a cloud of the visitor s organization a cloud of a software provider or marketplace host a third party hosted cloud contracted by the visitor s organization or other cloud . Other deployment destination options may also be provided such as a deployment to an application instance of the visitor s organization or integrated therewith. The visitor may also provide connectivity information i.e. network location identify data such as a network address and security credential data to allow deployment processes triggered through the marketplace to deploy code content and data to a specified destination. Such options in particular the option to specify a deployment destination of a software provider or marketplace host cloud allows the particular virtual appliance template to be deployed without requiring an organization to utilize existing hardware or procure and maintain additional hardware upon which the virtual appliance template will execute.

Through the querying of the marketplace visitor for requirement and deployment information and the ability to deploy pre assembled pre configured and pre tested virtual appliance templates to a cloud or other location organizational exposure in choosing to implement modify configure and maintain complex software systems is significantly mitigated.

Various embodiments include not only the ability to implement pre assembled software functionality and content through virtual appliance templates as already discussed but also the ability to move virtual appliance template instances via cloud logistic services. Cloud logistic services provide various abilities such as the ability to deploy virtual appliance templates to a cloud move or clone a deployed virtual appliance template from one cloud to another perform automated testing of deployed virtual appliance templates and the like. Such services may include translating a virtual appliance template from one form that is tailored to execute within one virtual machine type environment of a particular cloud to a virtual machine type environment of another particular cloud. For example a translation from a form tailored to a VMware virtual machine to a form tailored to an Amazon hosted cloud.

The deployment options and the cloud logistic services may also provide options to transport virtual appliance templates and instantiated instances of virtual appliance templates between clouds via non networked mechanisms. Such embodiments may utilize USB hard disks memory sticks optical disks and other data storage devices. The data to be transported and executable code of a cloud logistic service may be loaded on to the particular data storage device and then coupled to a device capable of loading the data from the data storage device to the target cloud.

The cloud logistics services may be provided via a computing device or computing environment through which the marketplace is also provided. However the cloud logistics services may be provided via one or more other computing devices coupled to the network . The cloud logistics services typically have access to the virtual appliance templates that may be stored in a database on one or more data storage devices or other storage mechanism. In some embodiments when the marketplace receives input from a visitor and further input to instantiate a virtual appliance instance the marketplace communicates commands and data based on received visitor input to the cloud logistics services. The cloud logistics services then determine which virtual appliance template or templates to deploy and deploys them according to the received input. The deployed virtual appliance template s may then be configured according to the received visitor input if such configuration is necessary. Any needed integration with other application instances or data copying therefrom may also be performed. Once these tasks and any other tasks as needed according to the context of the virtual appliance template s are completed such as automated testing the visitor and other users within the user s organization may be provided access to the deployed virtual appliance template.

In some instances an evaluation instance of an application or an application add on or enhancement may be instantiated in a demonstration cloud for evaluation by a customer. The customer then utilizes the evaluation instance to try out the instance and ensure it meets their needs and requirements. As the customer gains confidence the evaluation instance may then be converted to a prototype instance by providing additional input as to requirements customer data integration with another computer system and the like. In some embodiments the prototype instance may then be cloned to a development or testing cloud environment. Customer specific development or enhancements may be made here if needed. At any point when the customer decides a particular instance is ready to go live the instance that is ready may be cloned to a production environment and tested to ensure the cloning process was successful and that the cloud environment is properly configured and operational. The production instance may then go live. As the underlying implemented virtual appliance template s are pre assembled pre configured and pre tested for their respective purposes this process can move very quickly and with minimized risk. Further the initial financial outlays of the customer are minimized because the customer is not required to purchase and maintain hardware at any point although the customer does have the option to utilize their own cloud environment for deployment. Additionally as most of these processes are automated including the selection of the virtual appliance template s deployment testing and cloning the human effort needed is minimized and therefore the cost associated therewith is also minimized.

In some embodiments the at least one template such as a virtual appliance template includes code executable within the virtual computing environment and configuration settings that configures how the code executes within the virtual computing environment.

The method further includes transporting the virtual appliance template to a virtual machine computing environment and instantiating the virtual appliance template within the virtual machine computing environment. In some such embodiments the virtual machine computing environment includes an agent in the form of a program or process that executes or is callable therein. Thus the agent may be called to trigger the instantiating of the virtual appliance template within the virtual environment. The call of the agent may be an application programming interface API web services call or other call that may be made through transmission of messages via a network or between systems.

In some embodiments the method further includes transmitting a message to a recipient indicating the virtual appliance template has been instantiated and is available for use. The message may be transmitted from a marketplace such as a marketplace network location to an account of a user from whom the specification input was received . In other embodiments the message may be transmitted by an agent that executes within the virtual machine computing environment in which the virtual appliance template has been instantiated.

In some embodiments of the method transporting the virtual appliance template to the virtual machine computing environment includes writing the virtual appliance template and a script to a detachable data storage device. In other embodiments of the method the transporting includes transmitting the virtual appliance template and the script via a network such as the Internet to the virtual machine computing environment. In such embodiments the script is executable within the virtual machine computing environment to perform the instantiating of the virtual appliance template within the virtual machine computing environment. The script in some embodiments may be a part of the selected virtual appliance template. In other embodiments the script may be generated by a process on demand.

In some embodiments the selected virtual appliance template includes code executable within the virtual computing environment to establish a structure within the virtual computing environment within which the binaries configuration files and data files included in the virtual appliance template will be written. The included code in such embodiments is then further executable to write the binaries configuration files and data files to appropriate locations within that structure.

The method in some embodiments upon instantiating the virtual appliance template may include testing the instance of the virtual appliance template to verify successful instantiating and operability. This testing may include executing an automated testing process to test the instantiated virtual appliance template.

At some point after the instantiated instance of the virtual appliance template has been utilized tested configured or modified such as within a testing environment the virtual appliance template may be moved or copied to another virtual computing environment. Some such embodiments include receiving command input to clone the instantiated at least one template to another virtual machine environment. The command input may be received within a hosted marketplace such as the marketplace . However the command input may be received within a utility application a command line interface or other application utility or interface of the virtual computing environment or the instantiated virtual appliance template.

In response to the received command input such embodiments include copying the instantiated at least one template from the virtual machine environment to the another virtual machine environment. In some such embodiments copying the instantiated at least one template from the virtual machine environment to the another virtual machine environment includes reading a structure within which binaries configuration files and data of the at least one template are stored in the virtual machine environment. Such embodiments further include writing to a data storage device a representation of the structure within which binaries configuration files and data of the at least one template are stored and then copying to the data storage device the binaries configuration files and data of the at least one template from the virtual machine environment to a storage location. Next such embodiments include transporting the representation of the structure and the copied binaries configuration files and data of the at least one template to the another virtual machine environment. A cloned instance of the at least one template may then be established within the another virtual machine environment based on the transported representation of the structure and the copied binaries configuration files and data of the at least one template.

Computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the computer . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a computer readable medium. For example a computer program capable of performing one or more of the methods discussed herein.

Another system embodiment includes at least one processor and a network interface device. The system in such embodiments typically includes a number of modules. For example the modules include a user interaction module executable by the at least one processor to transmit via the network interface device user interface data defining at least one user interface requesting specification input with regard to an intended use and deployment of at least an application portion. The modules also include a selection module executable by the at least one processor to select a virtual appliance template based on specification input with regard to an intended use and deployment of at least an application portion the specification input received via the network interface device from a user interface provided by the user interaction module the selected virtual appliance template including binaries configuration files and data files of at least a portion of a computing application. The modules also include a transport module executable by the at least one processor to perform at least one data transport action with regard to the selected virtual appliance template based on the received specification input.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims.

