---

title: Intraoral device for automated preparation of the teeth with a view to performing partial or peripheral restorations
abstract: The invention relates to an intraoral device for automated preparation of the teeth with a view to performing partial or peripheral dental restoration, which includes: a splint () suitable for being positioned in the mouth of a patient, said splint including a means () for maintaining the position thereof inside said mouth; at least one mobile cutting tool () combined with said splint; and an electronic management unit which makes it possible to control said cutting tool, characterized in that: said cutting tool () is configured so as to cut at least the labial surface of the tooth (D) to be prepared, said tool being mounted on a mobile carriage () moving along a rail () attached to the splint (), opposite the labial surface of the tooth (D) to be prepared, said rail having a curvature that matches the dentition (D) of the patient; said splint () includes at least one 3D digitization tool () arranged such as to digitize at least the labial surface of said tooth to be prepared, said digitization tool being connected to the management unit () so that the digitized data can be transferred to said management unit; and said management unit is configured so as to control the movement of said cutting tool () in accordance with the digitized data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554872&OS=09554872&RS=09554872
owner: 
number: 09554872
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130429
---
This application is a National Phase Application of PCT International Application No. PCT FR2013 050948 entitled INTRAORAL DEVICE FOR AUTOMATED PREPARATION OF THE TEETH WITH A VIEW TO PERFORMING PARTIAL OR PERIPHERAL RESTORATIONS International Filing Date Apr. 29 2013 published on Nov. 7 2013 as International Publication No. WO 2013 164537 which in turn claims priority from French patent Application No. 1254147 filed May 4 2012 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The purpose of the invention is an intraoral device for the automated preparation of the teeth for performing partial or peripheral restorations.

The invention involves dental techniques enabling the preparation of a patient s tooth for performing a facet. In addition it involves in particular robotic dental equipment enabling automatic drilling in the mouth without the dentist having to use the cutting tool.

A ceramic facet permits covering the labial surface of a tooth that is stained discolored deformed or slightly deteriorated by use. Facets are mostly placed on central incisors up to the first premolars. To prepare a tooth for placing a facet the dentist must remove a fine layer of enamel on the labial surface of the tooth. A print of the tooth thus prepared is thus made then transmitted to a laboratory to make the facets.

The inventor has developed a technique that permits minimizing the removed enamel layer GUREL G. Predictable precise and repeatable tooth preparation for porcelain laminate veneers. Pract Proced Aesthet Dent. 2003 15 1 17 24 . GUREL G. Ceramic facets from theory to practice. Quitessence Publishing 2006 . In the first place the practitioner prepared an esthetic design that corresponds to the final shape of the tooth and its arrangement on the arch. The esthetic design is produced from a wax up. It permits its validation by the practitioner and the patient from the esthetic and functional plan before it is performed. It will also be used as a guide during preparation. The practitioner must then prepare the tooth while preserving a maximum of enamel in other words by avoiding unnecessary removal of tissue and by providing the dental technician with a constant thickness to build the ceramic facet. In practice the thickness of the ceramic facet must be at least 0.5 mm on the labial surface and at least 1.5 mm on the incisal edge. The difficulty consists of prepare the tooth as a minimum to obtain these thicknesses. To do so a replica of the esthetic project is applied in the mouth. The practitioner mills roots of about 0.5 mm deep throughout the esthetic design on the surface of the teeth. After having removed the esthetic design it suffices then to smoothen the dental surface to be prepared without removing more dental tissue than what is necessary. An imprint is made again by using the silicone key which initially was used to produce the esthetic design. It is from this new imprint that the dental technician prepares the ceramic fact on measure. To obtain an optimal result this technique namely removal of the dental tissue and of making the imprint that follows can only take place by experienced practitioners.

An objective of the invention is to automate this technique so that it can be implemented by a less experienced practitioner.

Another objective of the invention is to propose a device or equipment that enables minimizing dental tissue removal.

Another objective of the invention is to propose a device or equipment that permits improving the accuracy of making the imprint after preparing the tooth.

Robotic dental equipment or devices are well known to the expert in the field. As such for instance through patent document WO 94 03120 BECKETT CORP LTD a dentistry assembly comprising a cutting tool associated with a splint. The dentist can position the cutting tool at a desired location with respect to a patient s tooth. The tool remains always in a controlled fashion in the desired position so that an extremely precise recess or cavity can be made in the tooth even if the patient moves his head.

This type of device does not allow complex drilling and is not adapted for preparing a tooth for performing a facet according to the technique defined before.

Also through patent document EP 0.345.975 LORAN there is a device comprising a cutting tool moved along a predetermined trajectory. The manual work of the dentist is previously done on a model the device is secured to said model in a fixed position by means of a splint. The displacement motors of the tool are called upon in response to the manipulations by the dentist of control crayons so as to displace said tool along the trajectories required to obtain the desired configuration of the tooth. Signals corresponding to the tool movements are transmitted to a computer. When tooling is completed on the model restoration is prepared from this model and the patient is called back. Now the device is attached to the patient s jaw so that it is precisely in the same relative position as the one that it occupied with respect to the model. Then the computer sends signals to the appropriate control motors for repeating the movement of the tool in accordance with the correct sequence previously recorded so as to reproduce the tooling operations previously made on the model.

This device can be adapted to prepare a tooth for performing a facet according to the previously defined technique. However if the dentist s manual work initially performed on the model is not of good quality the device will reproduce all flaws inside the mouth. Consequently the objective pursued by this invention cannot be achieved by this device.

Patent document US 2004 015175 COSMAN concerns a dental imprint stereotactic localizer system which permits to induce non invasive images of tomographic sections by computer of a patient s anatomy. This type of device is not adapted for the automated preparation of teeth for achieving a partial or peripheral dental restoration.

The solution proposed by the invention is an intraoral device for the automated preparation of the teeth for achieving partial or peripheral restorations comprising 

Thanks to this device it is now possible to automate tooth cutting so that any practitioner irrespective of his level of experience can easily implement the technique developed by Dr. GUREL. Indeed the cutting tool is now solely controlled on the basis of scanned data by the digitizing tool in other words on the basis of the morphology of the labial surface of the tooth and no longer on the basis of the technical skill and dexterity of the practitioner. Drilling can as such be achieved very accurately. The same is true for making imprints which is much more accurate than the one performed from the silicone key that was initially used to produce the esthetic design. Optimizing the removal of dental tissue combined with the accurate digitizing of the tooth enables obtaining a facet that has the minimum thickness required for its manufacture.

Other remarkable features of the intraoral device covered by the invention are listed below each of these features can be considered by itself or in combination irrespective of the remarkable features defined above 

Another aspect of the invention concerns a system comprising the device according to one of the prior features and a tooling center comprising tools to automatically machine a dental facet 

with the management unit of said device being configured to guide or control the movement of said machines tools on the basis of the digitized data by the 3D digitizing tool said data are those of at least the labial surface of the tooth to be prepared and that of said labial surface once said tooth is prepared.

Yet another aspect of the invention involves a splint suitable for positioning inside a patient s mouth said splint comprises means for maintaining it in position inside the mouth with at least a mobile cutting tool associated with said splint said tool is configured to cut at least the labial surface of the tooth to be prepared with said tool being mounted on a mobile carriage that moves on a rail attached to the splint opposite the labial surface of the tooth to be prepared with said rail having a curvature suitable for the patient s dentition and with said splint comprising also at least a 3D digitizing tool arranged so as to digitize at least the labial surface of said tooth to be prepared.

Yet another aspect of the invention involves the process for guiding or controlling a mobile cutting tool associated with a splint suitable for positioning itself in a patient s mouth with said tool being configured to cut at least the labial surface of a tooth to be prepared said process consists of 

Yet another aspect of the invention involves a manufacturing technique of a dental facet consisting of 

Referring to the device covered by the invention includes a splint suitable for positioning in a patient s mouth. This splint has a general U or V shape and shows a symmetrical axis with respect to the A median plane of the patient. It can be obtained by plastic molding or thermal forming. It includes a bite area formed so as to adapt to the general curvature of the patient s dentition D. The bite area shows an occlusion area arranged to come into contact with dentition D when it is inserted in the patient s mouth a palatal edge on a side close to the throat and a labial edge on another side close to the lips.

To maintain splint in position in the patient s mouth dental clamps incorporated in said splint are foreseen. These clamps are arranged at the molar sectors of the occlusion area. They are secured onto the molars of the dental arch to which belongs the tooth to be prepared D. To avoid the rocking of the labial edge of splint it may be beneficial to provide a silicone element arranged in the middle of the palatal edge and configured to rest on the lingual face of the central incisors of the arch to which belongs the tooth to be prepared. One might also provide for another dental clamp incorporated in the splint and configured to be attached on the central incisors. Other means to keep splint in position inside the patient s mouth may be used. The splint can for example include attachment areas to be filled with glue or of a hardening plastic substance.

The splint is associated with at least a mobile cutting tool configured to cut at least the labial surface of the tooth to be prepared. Referring to preferably this would be a rotating cutting tool of the diamond bur type that can present a normal grain size to reduce the dental volume or a low grain size polishing the preparation other models selected by the specialist in the field may be used mounted in a removable fashion on an counter angle like the classic drilling tools of dentistry. The length of the active part of this bur is considerably equal preferably slightly greater than the average length of a tooth. The rotation axis of the tool is initially considerably vertical. The cutting tool is arranged on the splint so that it can correctly reach and prepare the labial surface of the tooth to be prepared among which its cervical limits.

The counter angle includes a ball joint or pivot link . This link offers an angular displacement with respect to the tool . A first motor not shown associated with the link permits adjusting the inclination of the counter angle and consequently the angle of tool . This first motor includes for instance an electric motor associated with a pinion toothed wheel system which permits to modify the inclination of counter angle . Link is incorporated in a handle inside of which are housed all components that make the cutting tool work and the first motor. A water and or air spray may be provided to cool the working area. Indeed the handle includes an electric hydraulic and or pneumatic connection provided for that purpose.

The handle is mounted on a mobile carriage . The latter is described in greater detail later in the description. In practice the handle is mounted sliding in the mobile carriage a second motor permits to make said handle slide automatically forward or backward in other words towards the palatal edge or towards the labial edge . This second motor includes for instance an electric motor associated with a pinion rack system enabling the movement of handle .

The mobile carriage moves about on a rail attached to the splint . The rail is preferably made of stainless steel. It is arranged opposite the labial surface of tooth D to be prepared its curvature is suitable for the patient s dentition D. Referring more in particular to the rail includes a curved portion considerable vertical and for which the extremities end in two jambs attached at the labial edge of the bite area of the splint . The curved portion is offset by a few millimeters of the bite area so that the mobile carriage is located considerably at the level of gum G of the patient . A third motor not shown allows the automatic movement of the mobile carriage on the rail . This third motor may consist of an electric motor associated with a pinion rack system that permits moving the mobile carriage . The latter includes an electric connection that permits the operation of the second and third motor.

The cutting tool thus comprising at least three degrees of movement a first degree corresponding to the inclination of counter angle a second degree corresponding to the movement of the handle in the carriage and a third degree corresponding to the movement of said carriage on the rail . For that reason the terms articulated tool or mobile tool are used. Other movements may obviously be provided. These different movements are controlled by the motors mentioned before so that tool may cut at least the labial surface of tooth D to be prepared irrespective of the morphology of the latter and the quantity of tissue to be removed.

For an embodiment variant not shown cutting of the labial surface of tooth D to be prepared can be performed using a dental laser such as an Erbium laser capable of treating the hard surfaces such as enamel. In this case the cutting tool is shown for instance in the form of a laser mounted on a mobile carriage of the type previously described. This laser has degrees of movement enabling it to cut the labial surface of tooth D to be prepared irrespective of the morphology of the latter and the quantity of tissue to be removed.

According to the configuration of the facet to be performed it may be necessary of also cutting the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared. To do so it is considered to associate splint to at least another cutting tool configured to cut at least the occlusal edge of tooth D to be prepared. Referring to it is preferred to use a rotating cutting tool of the diamond bur type mounted in removable fashion on a counter angle . Taking into account the small surface to cut the length of the active part of this bur is less than that of tool . A round bur may be used equivalently.

Counter angle is provided with a ball or pivot joint link . This link allows for an angular movement of the tool . A first motor not shown associated with link permits to adjust the inclination of counter angle and consequently of the tool angle. This first motor includes for instance an electric motor associated with a pinion toothed wheel system that permits modifying the inclination of the counter angle . The link is part of a handle inside of which are housed all electric hydraulic and or pneumatic connections which make the cutting tool and the first motor operate. The handle includes an electric hydraulic and or . . . foreseen for this purpose. A water and or air spray may be foreseen to cool down the work area.

The handle is mounted on a mobile carriage . In practice the handle is mounted sliding in the mobile carriage a second motor permits the automatic sliding of said handle forward or backward in other words towards the palatal edge or towards the labial edge . This second motor includes for instance an electric motor associated with a pinion rack system that lets the handle move about.

The mobile carriage moves about on a rail attached to the splint . The rail is preferably made of stainless steel. It is arranged opposite the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared its curvature is suitable for the patient s dentition D. Referring in particular to the rail includes a curved portion that is considerably vertical and for which the extremities end in two jambs secured considerably in the middle of the bite area of the splint . Curved portion is located under the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared . Consequently it is lower than the curved portion of the rail and closer to palatal edge . A third motor not shown permits to move automatically the mobile carriage on the rail . This third motor may consist of an electric motor associated with a pinion rack system that permits moving the mobile carriage . The latter includes an electric connection that lets operate the second and third motor.

Consequently the other cutting tool also includes at least three degrees of displacement a first degree corresponding to the inclination of counter angle a second degree corresponding to the movement of the handle in the carriage and a third degree corresponding to the movement of said carriage on the rail . Other movements may obviously be provided. These different movements are controlled by the motors mentioned before so that tool may cut at least the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared irrespective of the morphology of the latter and the quantity of tissue to be removed.

For an embodiment variant not shown cutting of the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared can be performed using a dental laser such as an Erbium laser capable of treating the hard tissues such as enamel. In this case the cutting tool is shown for instance in the form of a laser mounted on a mobile carriage of the type previously described. This laser has degrees of displacement enabling it to cut the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared irrespective of the morphology of the latter and the quantity of tissue to be removed. It is to be noted that the cutting of the labial surface and the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared may be done using a single dental laser having degrees of displacement enabling such cutting.

According to yet another variant of embodiment shown on a single rotating cutting tool permits preparing the labial surface and the incisal edge of tooth D. Management unit consequently manages now only the movement of a single tool. This tool is similar to tool described in reference to and it includes the same number of degrees of displacement. It is secured in a removable fashion on the counter angle previously described. This tool includes a first portion of the diamond bur type. The low extremity of this first portion is provided with a second diamond cylindrical portion . This second portion is positioned opposite the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared. By moving the handle the second portion is consequently in a position to remove tissue at the incisal edge of tooth D.

Referring to the presence of the rails and of the different elements they support the labial edge is moved forward generally exceeding the patient s mouth.

Referring to connections and are tied to the electronic management unit by a wire link or wireless of the Wifi type Internet or Bluetooth. In practice the electronic management unit presents itself in the form of a computer equipped with a processor configured to execute one or several programs subprograms micro programs or any other equivalent types of software for which the instructions permit to manage the inclination of counter angles and the movement of the handles and the movement of the carriages and respectively on the rails and the rotation of tools and or their shutdown. The electronic management unit consequently permits guiding or controlling cutting tools and .

According to the invention the splint includes at least a tool for 3D digitizing. This tool consists preferably of a camera capable of capturing images in 3 dimensions. Such digitizing tools are for instance described in patent documents US 2005 023781 KNIGHTON or US 2004 0155975 HART or marketed by the 3M company under the name intraoral camera Lava C.O.S. . Referring to the digitizing tool is arranged on the splint so as to digitize at least the labial surface of tooth D to be prepared in other words covered with esthetic design P. For that and as shown in the tool includes sensors arranged vertically considerably over the average length and average width of a tooth.

The digitizing tool is preferably mounted on a mobile carriage . For reasons of compactness the mobile carriage moves preferably on the rail previously described. The rail consequently supports not only the carriage associated with the cutting tool but also the carriage associated with the digitizing tool . However it is conceivable to foresee another similar rail attached to the splint opposite the labial surface of tooth D to be prepared with said rail having a curvature suitable for the patient s dentition. A motor not shown enables the automatic movement of the mobile carriage on the rail . This motor may consist of an electric motor associated with a pinion rack system enabling the movement of the mobile carriage . The latter includes an electric connection that permits operation of the digitizing tool .

The splint may include another 3D digitizing tool of the type described previously. However referring to this other digitizing tool is arranged on the splint so as to digitize at least the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared. For that and as shown on the other tool includes sensors arranged horizontally considerably over all of the average width and average thickness of a tooth.

The other digitizing tool is preferably mounted on a mobile carriage . For reasons of compactness this mobile carriage moves preferably on the rail previously described. The rail consequently supports not only the carriage associated with the cutting tool but also the carriage associated with the digitizing tool . However it is conceivable to foresee another similar rail attached to the splint opposite the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared with said rail having a curvature suitable for the patient s dentition. A motor not shown permits the automatic movement of the mobile carriage on the rail . The mobile carriage includes an electric connection that lets the digitizing tool operate.

Referring to the connections and are linked to the electronic management unit by a wire or wireless link of the Wifi type internet or Bluetooth. The data digitized by the tools can as such be transmitted to the management unit . In practice the electronic management unit incorporates one or several programs subprograms micro programs or all other equivalent types of software for which the instructions permit to manage the movement of the carriages and respectively on the rails and as well as the activation deactivation of the tools . The latter are consequently guided or controlled by the electronic management unit .

According to another remarkable feature of the invention the management unit is configured to guide or control at least the movement of the first cutting tool on the basis of the data digitized by the first digitizing tool . In practice the management unit also guides or controls the movement of the second cutting tool on the basis of the data digitized by the second digitizing unit . And more in general the management tool guides or controls the movement of the cutting tools on the basis of the data digitized by the digitizing tools and consequently on the basis of the morphology of the tooth to be prepared. The management unit can also guide or control automatically the movement of the cutting tools so that the latter cut homogenously the tooth D to be prepared e.g. covered by esthetic design P on a predefined and constant depth for instance 0.2 mm to 0.5 mm depth d with respect to the digitized labial surface and 0 mm to 1.5 mm depth d with respect to the digitized incisal edge. The practitioner is consequently certain to obtain a micro abrasion of the tooth where only the quantity of dental tissue necessary and sufficient for making the facet is removed. The depth of preparation of the labial surface and or of the incisal edge is chosen by the practitioner on the basis of the clinical situation for instance in case of a tooth with discolorations the thickness required for the facet will not be 0.5 mm as generally suggested but rather 0.8 mm to 1 mm so that said facet may hide the discoloration . In practice the management unit suggests to the practitioner to define through an interface on the screen the penetration depth of the preparation tools.

In short using the cutting tool respectively cutting tool is done by positioning the splint in advance in the patient s mouth and by keeping it in position then by 3D digitizing at least the labial surface respectively the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared. Guiding or controlling the movement of the tool is then done on the basis of the digitized data.

For an embodiment variant one might associate each cutting tool to a probe configured to measure the depression of said tool in the labial surface and or in the incisal edge of tooth D to be prepared. This probe is connected to a management unit so that the data regarding the measured depth may be passed on to the management unit. The latter can now automatically guide or control the movement of each cutting tool so that the latter cut homogenously the tooth to be prepared D covered with the esthetic design on a predefined depth controlled by the probes.

Referring to the device covered by the invention can be associated with a machining center which is located at the practitioner s office or in another location. The machine center consists for instance of a CNC digital drill CNC with 4 axes for dental prostheses marketed under the reference CHARLYDENTAL 4 by the CHARLYROBOT COMPANY. This type of machining center is well known to the expert in the field and includes tools suitable to machine automatically a dental facet such as ceramic or resin facets. The machining center is linked to the management unit by a link such as a wire or wireless link of the Wifi type Internet or Bluetooth so that said unit may guide or control the movement of the machining tools of said center on the basis of the digitized data by digital tool and or . These digitized data are those of at least the labial surface of tooth D to be prepared e.g. covered by esthetic design P and that of said labial surface once that said tooth is prepared e.g. after cutting . These digitized data can of course include those for the incisal edge before and after cutting. Indeed once that tooth D is cut the latter is again digitized by the digitizing tools . Referring to the shape and dimensions of facet F are deduced by comparing the image of tooth D to be prepared e.g. covered by the esthetic design P with the image of said prepared tooth e.g. after cutting . Management unit can also select the type of ceramic studs to be machined translucent or opaque on the basis of the initial clinical situation and of the esthetic design.

In summary the invention enables the implementation of a new manufacturing technique of a dental facet consisting of 

Prior to the cutting stage a restoration perimeter can be delimited by the practitioner. To do so the management unit is linked to a screen on which the image of the tooth to be restored is shown. Using a mouse or another pointing device the practitioner delimits with precision the restoration perimeter on the initial image without design of the tooth to be restored. The management unit takes into account this perimeter so that cutting tools remove dental tissue only inside said perimeter.

