---

title: Fast inversion of MWD transient EM data excited by a pulse of an arbitrary shape
abstract: A system and method of estimating properties of a subsurface formation are described. The method includes transmitting an excitation current pulse into the formation, receiving an induced pulse used to generate input data, and performing an inversion on the input data using a lookup table based on a shape of the excitation current pulse to estimate the properties of the subsurface formation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09562990&OS=09562990&RS=09562990
owner: BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED
number: 09562990
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130325
---
In downhole exploration and production efforts a number of sensors and measurement systems are used to provide information about the downhole environment. For example temperature and pressure in the subsurface environment are typically monitored and changes in these parameters may indicate the ingress of wellbore fluid or other useful information. Obtaining resistivity or inversely conductivity information about downhole formations may help to characterize the formation and facilitate decisions regarding drilling and production. Resistivity may be estimated from reflected or induced pulses resulting from transmitting electric pulses into the formation.

According to one aspect of the invention a method of estimating properties of a subsurface formation includes transmitting an excitation current pulse into the formation receiving an induced pulse used to generate input data and performing an inversion on the input data using a lookup table based on a shape of the excitation current pulse to estimate the properties of the subsurface formation.

According to another aspect of the invention a method of performing inversion to estimate properties of a subsurface formation includes generating a first lookup table based on a step function excitation pulse shape and calculating a residual norm based on inversion of input data using the first lookup table to estimate the properties according to values that provide a minimum residual norm.

According to yet another aspect of the invention a system to perform inversions to estimate properties of a subsurface formation includes a memory device configured to store a first lookup table and a processor configured to calculate a residual norm based on inversion of input data using the first lookup table to estimate the properties according to values that provide a minimum residual norm.

As noted above resistivity information about a formation may be helpful in ascertaining characteristics of the formation and making decisions based on the formation. Resistivity values may be estimated rather than measured directly based on induced reflected electrical pulses resulting from transmitting current pulses excitation pulses into the formation. Prior inversion algorithms used to estimate formation parameters from data acquired in this manner only account for step function excitation pulses. In addition the methods may rely on heuristic relationships between parameters that are not always valid under every circumstance. Embodiments of the system and method discussed herein relate to an inversion algorithm that employs look up tables to provide inversion results.

Generally inversion is a process of finding a model that provides the best fit between measured data and synthetic data. With respect to geophysical data inversion facilitates inferring information about a formation from acquired data. The inference is usually statistical and generally not uniquely solvable. That is when a single model fits the data then an infinite number of models would fit the data as well. Many of those models may in fact be unreasonable or yield inferences that are inaccurate. Embodiments of the system and method discussed herein include the use of prior information to reject the unreasonable models that fit the data.

The method includes calculating residual norm at block . When measured data e.g. induced pulse is obtained the obtained data and original lookup table data are compared to determine a best fit. Specifically a residual norm in each node of the 20 exemplary nodes of each of the exemplary four dimensional parameters R R and D2B is calculated and the parameters corresponding to the node for which reaches a minimum value best fit are selected. The residual norm is calculated as 

In a first example the distance to the boundary from the receiver D2B is 23.5 meters Ris 40 ohm Ris 1 ohm and the angle of inclination is 0 degrees. The noise is 20 . shows the angle of inclination resulting from the inversion on the x axis . The left y axis shows the distance to the boundary from the receiver D2B and the right y axis shows the percentage of the 100 inversions runs that provided the same result. That is each bar e.g. indicates the deviation angle at the x axis and the percentage of the inversions that resulted in that same deviation angle at the y axis . The exact angle of inclination of 0 degrees was determined in approximately 40 of the runs as indicated by . The exact distance D2B of 23.5 meters was determined by 40 of the runs as well but all the D2B values obtained through the 100 inversion runs indicated by are within an error of 5 . The inversion results for the other two parameters of the exemplary four parameters Rand R are not presented in the examples discussed herein.

In the next example the distance to the boundary from the receiver D2B is 25 meters Ris 40 ohm Ris 1 ohm and the angle of inclination is 0 degrees. The noise is 20 . indicates that the exact angle of inclination of 9 degrees was determined in approximately 30 of the runs as indicated by . The exact distance D2B of 25 meters indicated by was determined by less than a 5 error by all the runs indicated by . In the third example the inclination angle was changed to 83 degrees. indicates that the exact angle of inclination was found by just over 20 of the runs as indicated by . Also with the increased inclination angle the spread in the angle of inclination found by the 100 inversion runs as indicated by is almost 40 . The spread in the D2B values as indicated by is also increased and the error in determining the correct D2B indicated by is 10 . These results discussed above which are obtained by using the entire look up table are contrasted below with constrained inversion which reduces the uncertainties and uses only a subset of the lookup table for the inversion.

The discussion above involves a step function current excitation pulse. However in practical cases the current pulse shape used to induce current pulses in the formation may differ from that of a step function. This deviation in the excitation pulse shape may be caused by a receiver amplifier or by noise suppression filters for example. In some cases a more sophisticated excitation pulse shape is desirable because it better characterizes the formation . Regardless of the reason for the excitation pulse shape taking into account the excitation pulse shape while performing inversion yields improved results.

As shown at block of the method of performing inversion may include correcting for the excitation pulse shape. The lookup table generated as discussed above with reference to block the original lookup table may be modified at block . The transient signals S t from the original lookup table are used to calculate the S t signals corresponding to I t pulse excitation. This is done via a convolution integral 

Initially three five parametric original lookup tables corresponding to xx yy and zz components and a step function excitation pulse are generated. Then using EQ. 2 three lookup tables of data S t modified lookup tables are generated for the parabolic pulse shape given by EQ. 10. These lookup tables comprise the synthetic data used in the inversion of received data. The exemplary model used to generate three sets of the input data is a three layered model with each model using a different distance from the tool to the bottom boundary D2B . The three models use D2Bvalues of 1 5 and 10 meters. The D2Bvalue is 1 meter for all three models. Resistivity of the first R and third R layers Ro is 1 ohm and resistivity of the second R layer Ro is 5 ohm. Measurements are assumed to start 2 s after switching on the current in the transmitter and to last 0.405 ms. No cross components e.g. xy are used and random normally distributed 20 noise as a percentage of signal level is added to the input data. Table 1 shows the five parameters in each column and for each of the three models includes the parameter value used to generate the input and the parameter value determined by the inversion.

As Table 1 indicates for the first model first row of Table 1 the worst determined parameter is the resistivity of the third R layer which evidences an error of approximately 60 . The D2Bparameter for example only evidences an error of 5 . The second model second row of Table 1 shows inversion results that all have less than 10 error associated with them. When D2Bwas increased to 10 meters model 3 third row of Table 1 the inversion failed to find the resistivity of the third R layer and D2B. These results indicate sensitivity of the data to the unresolved parameters. The result for model 3 for example may be improved by extending an observation time interval. An extended observation time interval from the exemplary interval starting at 2 s and extending 0.405 ms may improve sensitivity of the data to the third layer associated with R and reduce the error in the inverted parameters.

While one or more embodiments have been shown and described modifications and substitutions may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly it is to be understood that the present invention has been described by way of illustrations and not limitation.

