---

title: Poly(thioketal-urethane) scaffolds and methods of use
abstract: The presently-disclosed subject matter includes biodegradable scaffolds. Exemplary biodegradable scaffolds comprise a plurality of polythioketal polymers, and a plurality of polyisocyanates, where at least one polyisocyanate is linked to at least one polymer to form the scaffold. Thus, certain embodiments of scaffolds comprise a cross-linked network of the polythioketal polymers and the polyisocyanates. The presently-disclosed subject matter also includes methods for treating tissue, such as skin or bone tissue, in a subject in need thereof. Treatment methods comprise contacting the tissue with an effective amount of the biodegradable scaffold. Furthermore, the presently-disclosed subject matter includes methods for making the present biodegradable scaffolds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09463261&OS=09463261&RS=09463261
owner: Vanderbilt University
number: 09463261
owner_city: Nashville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130920
---
This application claims priority from International Patent Application No. PCT US2013 61064 filed Sep. 20 2013 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 704 351 filed Sep. 21 2012 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by this reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. W81XWH 07 1 0211 awarded by the Department of Defense DOD Orthopaedic Extremity Trauma Research Program Grant Nos. DMR 0847711 and DMR 1006558 awarded by the National Science Foundation and Grant Nos. R21EB012750 and R01AR056138 awarded by the National Institute of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to poly thioketal urethane scaffolds. Embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter further relate to method of utilizing and synthesizing polythioketal scaffolds including poly thioketal urethane scaffolds.

Wound healing is also a universal problem particularly given the increases in immobile aging diabetic amputees paralyzed patients afflicted with large chronic wounds and fistulas and trauma victims with large cutaneous defects. These well known problems indicate a need for the development of injectable biomaterials to promote restoration of tissue integrity.

To attempt to meet some needs biodegradable scaffolds made from synthetic polymers have been extensively investigated for use in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Examples include poly lactic co glycolic acid PLGA poly caprolactone PCL polyanhydrides PAA and polyurethanes all of which have a history of use in products approved by the FDA. These materials are applicable for a diverse range of regenerative applications because they offer a high degree of tunability generate a minimal host inflammatory response and degrade into non cytotoxic components that are easily cleared from the body.

To attempt to overcome some of these known problems polyurethane PUR or poly ester urethane PEUR scaffolds have been developed that can foam and cure in situ. Such polyurethane scaffolds can comprise polyesters that degrade hydrolytically and have been shown to have promising properties for treating skin and bone. However because degradation occurs primarily by acid catalyzed hydrolysis of ester bonds in the amorphous soft segment hydroxyl and carboxylic acid end groups are formed. The residual carboxylic acids in the polymer reduce the local pH at later stages of degradation thereby catalyzing further hydrolysis of the polymer.

This auto catalytic degradation of the PEUR network driven by residual carboxylic acid groups can result in a mismatch in the rates of scaffold degradation and tissue in growth that leads to resorption gaps and compromised tissue regeneration. Various strategies have been investigated to modify the degradation rates and decrease the accumulation of acidic by products of polyester based scaffolds. However the initial rate of polyester hydrolysis is primarily dictated by the presence of water is first order with respect to the concentration of ester bonds and does not correlate to specific cellular activities. Thus matching the rates of scaffold degradation and tissue ingrowth is challenging for polyester based platforms.

Biomaterials that degrade by cell mediated mechanisms such as materials with protease cleavable peptides have been exposed as potential alternatives to polyester based platforms. However these peptide sequences are cleaved by specific enzymes that are upregulated in specific pathological environments making it difficult to establish this approach as a generalizable tissue engineering platform. Also manufacturing peptides on the scale necessary to regenerate sizable tissue sections is both relatively expensive and time consuming.

Hence there remains a need for tissue scaffolds that do not have the same problems associated with the composites and scaffolds discussed above. Additionally there remains a need for scaffolds that treat tissue including bone tissue and or skin tissue wounds and has tunable and controlled degradation characteristics. It is also desirable to have scaffolds that are moldable injectable capable of implantation via minimally invasive techniques capable of curing in situ and or capable of flowing to fill contours or irregular shapes.

The presently disclosed subject matter meets some or all of the above identified needs as will become evident to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of information provided in this document.

This Summary lists several embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter and in many cases lists variations and permutations of these embodiments. This Summary is merely exemplary of the numerous and varied embodiments. Mention of one or more representative features of a given embodiment is likewise exemplary. Such an embodiment can typically exist with or without the feature s mentioned likewise those features can be applied to other embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter whether listed in this Summary or not. To avoid excessive repetition this Summary does not list or suggest all possible combinations of such features.

The presently disclosed subject matter includes biodegradable scaffolds that comprise a plurality of polythioketal polymers and a plurality of polyisocyanates. In some embodiments the scaffolds comprise a cross linked network of the polythioketal polymers and the polyisocyanates wherein at least one polyisocyanate is linked to at least one polythioketal polymer to form the scaffold. Embodiments of scaffolds can degrade at rates that are partially or exclusively dependent on the concentration of reactive oxygen species ROS that the scaffolds are exposed to. In some embodiments the scaffolds have a half life of about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 or 52 weeks.

In some embodiments the scaffold can further comprise a catalyst. Exemplary catalysts include those that comprise an amine such as a solution of triethylene diamine in dipropyleneglycol TEGOAMIN33 .

With respect to the polythioketal polymers in some embodiments the polythioketal polymers comprise one or more ether groups. In yet further embodiments the polythioketal polymers can comprise one or more terminal functional groups. Terminal functional groups include but are not limited to groups consisting of thiol amine hydroxyl and combinations thereof. In specific embodiments the polythioketal polymer comprises two terminal functional groups such as two thiol or two hydroxyl functional groups. Consequently exemplary polythioketal polymers can be diols.

The polythioketal polymers can be comprised of a dithiol of a poly ethylene glycol dithiol additional subunits or a combination thereof. The polythioketal polymers can be comprised of any dithiol subunit monomer . For example the poly ethylene glycol dithiol can be selected from the group consisting of di ethylene glycol dithiol tri ethylene glycol dithiol tetra ethylene glycol dithiol hexa ethylene glycol dithiol and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the scaffold comprises a poly ethylene glycol dithiol and another dithiol and a molar ratio of the poly ethylene glycol dithiol to the dithiol is about 100 0 to about 0 100. In specific embodiments the polythioketal polymers are comprised of subunits selected from 2 2 dimethoxypropane DMP 1 4 butanedithiol BDT 2 mercatoethylether MEE and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the polythioketal polymer consist of DMP BDT and MEE. In embodiments of polythioketal polymers that comprise at least MEE and BDT a molar ratio of MEE to the BDT can range from about 100 0 to about 0 100.

With regard to the polyisocyanates in some embodiments the polyisocyanates are a bifunctional polyisocyanate a trifunctional polyisocyanate or combinations thereof. Exemplary polyisocyanates include those selected from the group consisting of lysine methyl ester diisocyanate LDI lysine triisocyanate LTI 1 4 diisocyanatobutane BDI hexamethylene diisocyanate HDI dimers of HDI trimers of HDI HDIt and combinations thereof. In specific embodiments the polyisocyanate consists of HDIt.

In further embodiments scaffolds can also comprise a second agent to be delivered. In some embodiments the scaffolds comprise a biologically active agent. Exemplary biologically active agents include those selected from the group consisting of enzymes organic catalysts antibiotics anti cancer agents ribozymes organometallics proteins glycoproteins peptides polyamino acids antibodies nucleic acids steroidal molecules antibiotics antivirals antimycotics anticancer agents analgesic agents antirejection agents immunosuppressants cytokines carbohydrates oleophobics lipids extracellular matrix and or its individual components demineralized bone matrix mineralized bone pharmaceuticals chemotherapeutics cells viruses siRNA miRNA virus vectors prions and combinations thereof.

Additionally the presently disclosed subject matter includes methods for treating tissue in a subject in need thereof by utilizing the present scaffolds. In particular treatment methods can comprise contacting the tissue with an effective amount of a biodegradable scaffold that includes a plurality of polythioketal polymers and a plurality of polyisocyanates. The tissue can be skin bone or the like. The particular tissue being treated can be a wound site.

In some embodiments in the contacting step described above the polythioketal polymers and the polyisocyanates are contacted with the tissue in a fully uncured 100 polyisocyanate and polythioketal polymer or a partially uncured state partial conversion to polythioketal urethane scaffold . The method for treating a subject can further comprise allowing the polythioketal polymers and the polyisocyanates to cure in contact with the tissue so that at least one polyisocyanate is linked to at least one polythioketal polymer to form the scaffold. Thus in some embodiments the step of contacting tissue with the present scaffolds includes curing the present scaffolds in situ.

In some embodiments the method further comprises permitting the scaffold to degrade on the tissue for about 1 day to about 100 days or more.

The treatment methods described herein can further include delivering an agent to a subject and or a tissue of a subject. For example in some embodiments the scaffolds comprise a biologically active agent that can be delivered to a subject and or tissue of a subject.

Further still the presently disclosed subject matter includes a method for manufacturing a biodegradable scaffold. In some embodiments the manufacturing method comprises providing a polythioketal polymer mixing the polythioketal polymer with a polyisocyanate to form a reactive mixture and curing the reactive mixture into the biodegradable scaffold. The method can further comprise mixing a catalyst or other agent e.g. biologically active agent into the reactive mixture. The reactive mixture can be cured such that at least one polyisocyanate is linked to at least one polythioketal polymer to form the scaffold. Thus the method can form a cured scaffold that comprises a cross linked network of the polythioketal polymers and the polyisocyanates.

In some embodiments the step of providing a polythioketal polymer includes reacting a mixture that includes a dithiol a poly ethylene glycol dithiol or a combination thereof to form the polythioketal polymer. In specific embodiments the of providing the polythioketal polymer includes reacting a mixture that includes 2 2 dimethoxypropane DMP 1 4 butanedithiol BDT 2 mercatoethylether MEE or a combination thereof to form the polythioketal polymer. In specific embodiments DMP BDT and MEE are reacted to from a polythioketal polymer.

In some embodiments the step of providing the polythioketal polymer includes functionalizing the polythioketal polymer to include the terminal functional group. Exemplary terminal functional groups include thiol amine hydroxyl and combinations thereof.

Further advantages of the presently disclosed subject matter will become evident to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of the description Figures and non limiting Examples in this document.

The term bioactive agent or biologically active agent is used herein to refer to compounds or entities that alter promote speed prolong inhibit activate or otherwise affect biological or chemical events in a subject e.g. a human . For example bioactive agents may include but are not limited to osteogenic osteoinductive and osteoconductive agents anti HIV substances anti cancer substances antibiotics immunosuppressants anti viral agents enzyme inhibitors neurotoxins opioids hypnotics anti histamines lubricants tranquilizers anti convulsants muscle relaxants anti Parkinson agents anti spasmodics and muscle contractants including channel blockers miotics and anti cholinergics anti glaucoma compounds anti parasite agents anti protozoal agents and or anti fungal agents modulators of cell extracellular matrix interactions including cell growth inhibitors and anti adhesion molecules vasodilating agents inhibitors of DNA RNA or protein synthesis anti hypertensives analgesics anti pyretics steroidal and non steroidal anti inflammatory agents anti angiogenic factors angiogenic factors anti secretory factors anticoagulants and or antithrombotic agents local anesthetics ophthalmics prostaglandins anti depressants anti psychotics targeting agents chemotactic factors receptors neurotransmitters proteins cell response modifiers cells peptides polynucleotides viruses and vaccines. In certain embodiments the bioactive agent is a drug. In certain embodiments the bioactive agent is a small molecule.

Antimicrobial used as bioactive agents in embodiments of the present invention may be selected from one that does little to no harm to the healing process. Clinically antibiotics may be selected for their spectrum or ease of administration to the patient. When selecting an antibiotic for local delivery the physical characteristics charge and hydrophobicity and state liquid or powder of the drug may also be considered. Additionally antimicrobials effects on eukaryotic cells may be considered when developing an embodiment of the present invention including a dual delivery scaffold embodiment. In vitro studies that evaluated the effect of eight concentrations ranging from 0 to 5 000 mg ml of 21 antibiotics on the viability and activity of osteoblasts found that vancomycin a tricyclic glycopeptide antibiotic that is efficacious for treating infections caused by gram positive bacteria such as may have the least detrimental effects on osteoblast function. All other antibiotics in the study reduced the alkaline phosphatase ALP activity at doses that were 10 50 times lower than that of vancomycin. Other studies also indicate that vancomycin has less adverse effects on osteoblasts than other commonly used antibiotics in vitro. Furthermore vancomycin may not impede bone growth in fractures in vivo. Some embodiments comprise an antibiotic selected from the group consisting of clindamycin cefazolin oxacillin rifampin trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole vancomycin ceftazadime ciprofloxacin colistin and imipenem.

A more complete listing of bioactive agents and specific drugs suitable for use in the present invention may be found in Pharmaceutical Substances Syntheses Patents Applications by Axel Kleemann and Jurgen Engel Thieme Medical Publishing 1999 the Merck Index An Encyclopedia of Chemicals Drugs and Biologicals Edited by Susan Budavari et al. CRC Press 1996 the United States Pharmacopeia 25 National Formulary 20 published by the United States Pharmcopeial Convention Inc. Rockville Md. 2001 and the Pharmazeutische Wirkstoffe edited by Von Keemann et al. Stuttgart New York 1987 all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Drugs for human use listed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA under 21 C.F.R. 330.5 331 through 361 and 440 through 460 and drugs for veterinary use listed by the FDA under 21 C.F.R. 500 through 589 all of which are incorporated herein by reference are also considered acceptable for use in accordance with the present invention.

The terms biodegradable bioerodable or resorbable materials as used herein are intended to describe materials that degrade under physiological conditions to form a product that can be metabolized or excreted without damage to the subject. In certain embodiments the product is metabolized or excreted without permanent damage to the subject. Biodegradable materials may be hydrolytically degradable may require cellular and or enzymatic action to fully degrade or both. Biodegradable materials also include materials that are broken down within cells. Degradation may occur by hydrolysis oxidation enzymatic processes phagocytosis or other processes. Some degradation may occur due to the present of reactive oxygen species.

The term biocompatible as used herein is intended to describe materials that upon administration in vivo do not induce undesirable side effects. In some embodiments the material does not induce irreversible undesirable side effects. In certain embodiments a material is biocompatible if it does not induce long term undesirable side effects. In certain embodiments the risks and benefits of administering a material are weighed in order to determine whether a material is sufficiently biocompatible to be administered to a subject.

The term biomolecules as used herein refers to classes of molecules e.g. proteins amino acids peptides polynucleotides nucleotides carbohydrates sugars lipids nucleoproteins glycoproteins lipoproteins steroids natural products etc. that are commonly found or produced in cells whether the molecules themselves are naturally occurring or artificially created e.g. by synthetic or recombinant methods . For example biomolecules include but are not limited to enzymes receptors glycosaminoglycans neurotransmitters hormones cytokines cell response modifiers such as growth factors and chemotactic factors antibodies vaccines haptens toxins interferons ribozymes anti sense agents plasmids DNA and RNA. Exemplary growth factors include but are not limited to bone morphogenic proteins BMP s and their active fragments or subunits. In some embodiments the biomolecule is a growth factor chemotactic factor cytokine extracellular matrix molecule or a fragment or derivative thereof for example a cell attachment sequence such as a peptide containing the sequence RGD.

The term carbohydrate as used herein refers to a sugar or polymer of sugars. The terms saccharide polysaccharide carbohydrate and oligosaccharide may be used interchangeably. Most carbohydrates are aldehydes or ketones with many hydroxyl groups usually one on each carbon atom of the molecule. Carbohydrates generally have the molecular formula CHO. A carbohydrate may be a monosaccharide a disaccharide trisaccharide oligosaccharide or polysaccharide. The most basic carbohydrate is a monosaccharide such as glucose sucrose galactose mannose ribose arabinose xylose and fructose. Disaccharides are two joined monosaccharides. Exemplary disaccharides include sucrose maltose cellobiose and lactose. Typically an oligosaccharide includes between three and six monosaccharide units e.g. raffinose stachyose and polysaccharides include six or more monosaccharide units. Exemplary polysaccharides include starch glycogen and cellulose. Carbohydrates may contain modified saccharide units such as 2 deoxyribose wherein a hydroxyl group is removed 2 fluororibose wherein a hydroxyl group is replaced with a fluorine or N acetylglucosamine a nitrogen containing form of glucose e.g. 2 fluororibose deoxyribose and hexose . Carbohydrates may exist in many different forms for example conformers cyclic forms acyclic forms stereoisomers tautomers anomers and isomers.

The term composite as used herein is used to refer to a unified combination of two or more distinct materials. The composite may be homogeneous or heterogeneous. For example a composite may be a combination of bone particles and a polymer a combination of bone particles polymers and antibiotics or a combination of two different polymers. In certain embodiments the composite has a particular orientation.

The term contacting refers to any method of providing or delivering a scaffold on to or near tissue to be treated. Such methods are described throughout this document and include injection of a biodegradable scaffold on to a tissue wound and or molding a biodegradable scaffold in a mold and then placing the molded scaffold on a tissue wound. In some embodiments contacting refers to completely covering a skin wound and optionally the surrounding skin with a biodegradable polyurethane scaffold. In some embodiments contacting refers to placing a biodegradable polyurethane scaffold between two or more bone fragments that have fractured. In various aspects a scaffold can be contact an existing tissue wound and in further various aspects a polyurethane scaffold can be contacted prophylactically that is to prevent a wound from forming on tissue.

The term flowable polymer material as used herein refers to a flowable composition including one or more of monomers pre polymers oligomers low molecular weight polymers uncross linked polymers partially cross linked polymers partially polymerized polymers polymers or combinations thereof that have been rendered formable. One skilled in the art will recognize that a flowable polymer material need not be a polymer but may be polymerizable. In some embodiments flowable polymer materials include polymers that have been heated past their glass transition or melting point. Alternatively or in addition a flowable polymer material may include partially polymerized polymer telechelic polymer or prepolymer. A pre polymer is a low molecular weight oligomer typically produced through step growth polymerization. The pre polymer is formed with an excess of one of the components to produce molecules that are all terminated with the same group. For example a diol and an excess of a diisocyanate may be polymerized to produce isocyanate terminated prepolymer that may be combined with a diol to form a polyurethane. Alternatively or in addition a flowable polymer material may be a polymer material solvent mixture that sets when the solvent is removed.

The term nontoxic is used herein to refer to substances which upon ingestion inhalation or absorption through the skin by a human or animal do not cause either acutely or chronically damage to living tissue impairment of the central nervous system severe illness or death.

The term osteoconductive as used herein refers to the ability of a substance or material to provide surfaces which are receptive to the growth of new bone.

The term osteogenic as used herein refers to the ability of a substance or material that can induce bone formation.

The term osteoinductive as used herein refers to the quality of being able to recruit cells e.g. osteoblasts from the host that have the potential to stimulate new bone formation. In general osteoinductive materials are capable of inducing heterotopic ossification that is bone formation in extraskeletal soft tissues e.g. muscle .

The term osteoimplant is used herein in its broadest sense and is not intended to be limited to any particular shapes sizes configurations compositions or applications. Osteoimplant refers to any device or material for implantation that aids or augments bone formation or healing. Osteoimplants are often applied at a bone defect site e.g. one resulting from injury defect brought about during the course of surgery infection malignancy inflammation or developmental malformation. Osteoimplants can be used in a variety of orthopedic neurosurgical dental and oral and maxillofacial surgical procedures such as the repair of simple and compound fractures and non unions external and internal fixations joint reconstructions such as arthrodesis general arthroplasty deficit filling disectomy laminectomy anterior cerival and thoracic operations spinal fusions etc.

The terms polynucleotide nucleic acid or oligonucleotide as used herein refer to a polymer of nucleotides. The terms polynucleotide nucleic acid and oligonucleotide may be used interchangeably. Typically a polynucleotide comprises at least three nucleotides. DNAs and RNAs are exemplary polynucleotides. The polymer may include natural nucleosides i.e. adenosine thymidine guanosine cytidine uridine deoxyadenosine deoxythymidine deoxyguanosine and deoxycytidine nucleoside analogs e.g. 2 aminoadenosine 2 thithymidine inosine pyrrolo pyrimidine 3 methyl adenosine C5 propynylcytidine C5 propynyluridine C5 bromouridine C5 fluorouridine C5 iodouridine C5 methylcytidine 7 deazaadenosine 7 deazaguanosine 8 oxoadenosine 8 oxoguanosine O 6 methylguanine and 2 thiocytidine chemically modified bases biologically modified bases e.g. methylated bases intercalated bases modified sugars e.g. 2 fluororibose ribose 2 deoxyriboses arabinose and hexose or modified phosphate groups e.g. phosphorothioates and 5 N phosphoramidite linkages . The polymer may also be a short strand of nucleic acids such as RNAi siRNA or shRNA.

The terms polypeptide peptide or protein as used herein include a string of at least three amino acids linked together by peptide bonds. The terms polypeptide peptide and protein may be used interchangeably. In some embodiments peptides may contain only natural amino acids although non natural amino acids i.e. compounds that do not occur in nature but that can be incorporated into a polypeptide chain and or amino acid analogs as are known in the art may alternatively be employed. Also one or more of the amino acids in a peptide may be modified for example by the addition of a chemical entity such as a carbohydrate group a phosphate group a farnesyl group an isofarnesyl group a fatty acid group a linker for conjugation functionalization or other modification etc. In one embodiment the modifications of the peptide lead to a more stable peptide e.g. greater half life in vivo . These modifications may include cyclization of the peptide the incorporation of D amino acids etc. None of the modifications should substantially interfere with the desired biological activity of the peptide.

The terms polysaccharide or oligosaccharide as used herein refer to any polymer or oligomer of carbohydrate residues. Polymers or oligomers may consist of anywhere from two to hundreds to thousands of sugar units or more. Oligosaccharide generally refers to a relatively low molecular weight polymer while polysaccharide typically refers to a higher molecular weight polymer. Polysaccharides may be purified from natural sources such as plants or may be synthesized de novo in the laboratory. Polysaccharides isolated from natural sources may be modified chemically to change their chemical or physical properties e.g. reduced oxidized phosphorylated cross linked . Carbohydrate polymers or oligomers may include natural sugars e.g. glucose fructose galactose mannose arabinose ribose xylose etc. and or modified sugars e.g. 2 fluororibose 2 deoxyribose etc. . Polysaccharides may also be either straight or branched. They may contain both natural and or unnatural carbohydrate residues. The linkage between the residues may be the typical ether linkage found in nature or may be a linkage only available to synthetic chemists. Examples of polysaccharides include cellulose maltin maltose starch modified starch dextran poly dextrose and fructose. In some embodiments glycosaminoglycans are considered polysaccharides. Sugar alcohol as used herein refers to any polyol such as sorbitol mannitol xylitol galactitol erythritol inositol ribitol dulcitol adonitol arabitol dithioerythritol dithiothreitol glycerol isomalt and hydrogenated starch hydrolysates.

The term porogen as used herein refers to a chemical compound that may be part of the inventive composite and upon implantation injection or prior to implantation injection diffuses dissolves and or degrades to leave a pore in the osteoimplant composite. A porogen may be introduced into the composite during manufacture during preparation of the composite e.g. in the operating room or after implantation injection. A porogen essentially reserves space in the composite while the composite is being molded but once the composite is implanted the porogen diffuses dissolves or degrades thereby inducing porosity into the composite. In this way porogens provide latent pores. In certain embodiments the porogen may be leached out of the composite before implantation injection. This resulting porosity of the implant generated during manufacture or after implantation injection i.e. latent porosity is thought to allow infiltration by cells bone formation bone remodeling osteoinduction osteoconduction and or faster degradation of the osteoimplant. A porogen may be a gas e.g. carbon dioxide nitrogen or other inert gas liquid e.g. water biological fluid or solid. Porogens are typically water soluble such as salts sugars e.g. sugar alcohols polysaccharides e.g. dextran poly dextrose water soluble small molecules etc. Porogens can also be natural or synthetic polymers oligomers or monomers that are water soluble or degrade quickly under physiological conditions. Exemplary polymers include polyethylene glycol poly vinylpyrollidone pullulan poly glycolide poly lactide poly lactide co glycolide other polyesters and starches. In certain embodiments bone particles utilized in provided composites or compositions may act as porogens. For example osteoclasts resorb allograft and make pores in composites.

In some embodiments porogens may refer to a blowing agent i.e. an agent that participates in a chemical reaction to generate a gas . Water may act as such a blowing agent or porogen.

The term porosity as used herein refers to the average amount of non solid space contained in a material e.g. a composite of the present invention . Such space is considered void of volume even if it contains a substance that is liquid at ambient or physiological temperature e.g. 0.5 C. to 50 C. Porosity or void volume of a composite can be defined as the ratio of the total volume of the pores i.e. void volume in the material to the overall volume of composites. In some embodiments porosity c defined as the volume fraction pores can be calculated from composite foam density which can be measured gravimetrically. Porosity may in certain embodiments refer to latent porosity wherein pores are only formed upon diffusion dissolution or degradation of a material occupying the pores. In such an instance pores may be formed after implantation injection. It will be appreciated by these of ordinary skill in the art that the porosity of a provided composite or composition may change over time in some embodiments after implantation injection e.g. after leaching of a porogen when osteoclasts resorbing allograft bone etc. . For the purpose of the present disclosure implantation injection may be considered to be time zero T . In some embodiments the present invention provides composites and or compositions having a porosity of at least about 30 at least about 40 at least about 50 at least about 60 at least about 70 at least about 80 at least about 90 or more than 90 at time zero. In certain embodiments pre molded composites and or compositions may have a porosity of at least about 30 at least about 40 at least about 50 at least about 60 at least about 70 at least about 80 at least about 90 or more than 90 at time zero. In certain embodiments injectable composites and or compositions may have a porosity of as low as 3 at time zero. In certain embodiments injectable composites and or compositions may cure in situ and have a porosity of at least about 30 at least about 40 at least about 50 at least about 60 at least about 70 at least about 80 at least about 90 or more than 90 after curing.

The term remodeling as used herein describes the process by which native bone processed bone allograft whole bone sections employed as grafts and or other bony tissues are replaced with new cell containing host bone tissue by the action of osteoclasts and osteoblasts. Remodeling also describes the process by which non bony native tissue and tissue grafts are removed and replaced with new cell containing tissue in vivo. Remodeling also describes how inorganic materials e.g. calcium phosphate materials such as tricalcium phosphate are replaced with living bone.

The term scaffold as used herein refers to a substance that can be used to treat tissue and or a wound. In some embodiments the scaffold or graft is a foam that can be injected between fractured bone fragments to help heal the fracture. In some embodiments the scaffold or graft is a material that can be placed on or near tissue to be treated. The terms composite scaffold and graft may be used interchangeably herein to refer to embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter.

The term setting time as used herein is approximated by the tack free time TFT which is defined as the time at which the material could be touched with a spatula with no adhesion of the spatula to the foam. At the TFT the wound could be closed without altering the properties of the material.

The term shaped as used herein is intended to characterize a material e.g. composite or an osteoimplant refers to a material or osteoimplant of a determined or regular form or configuration in contrast to an indeterminate or vague form or configuration as in the case of a lump or other solid matrix of special form . Materials may be shaped into any shape configuration or size. For example materials can be shaped as sheets blocks plates disks cones pins screws tubes teeth bones portions of bones wedges cylinders threaded cylinders and the like as well as more complex geometric configurations.

The term small molecule as used herein is used to refer to molecules whether naturally occurring or artificially created e.g. via chemical synthesis that have a relatively low molecular weight. In some embodiments small molecules have a molecular weight of less than about 2 500 g mol for example less than 1000 g mol. In certain embodiments small molecules are biologically active in that they produce a local or systemic effect in animals such as mammals e.g. humans. In certain embodiments a small molecule is a drug. In certain embodiments though not necessarily a drug is one that has already been deemed safe and effective for use by an appropriate governmental agency or body e.g. the U.S. Food and Drug Administration .

The terms subject or subject in need thereof refer to a target of administration which optionally displays symptoms related to a particular disease pathological condition disorder or the like. The subject of the herein disclosed methods can be a vertebrate such as a mammal a fish a bird a reptile or an amphibian. Thus the subject of the herein disclosed methods can be a human non human primate horse pig rabbit dog sheep goat cow cat guinea pig or rodent. The term does not denote a particular age or sex. Thus adult and newborn subjects as well as fetuses whether male or female are intended to be covered. A patient refers to a subject afflicted with a disease or disorder. The term patient includes human and veterinary subjects.

The term tissue is used herein to refer to a population of cells generally consisting of cells of the same kind that perform the same or similar functions. The types of cells that make the tissue are not limited. In some embodiments tissue is part of a living organism and in some embodiments tissue is tissue excised from a living organism or artificial tissue. In some embodiments tissue can be part of skin bone an organ or the like.

The term transformation as used herein describes a process by which a material is removed from an implant site and replaced by host tissue after implantation. Transformation may be accomplished by a combination of processes including but not limited to remodeling degradation resorption and tissue growth and or formation. Removal of the material may be cell mediated or accomplished through chemical processes such as dissolution and hydrolysis.

The terms treatment or treating refer to the medical management of a patient with the intent to heal cure ameliorate stabilize or prevent a disease pathological condition or disorder. This term includes active treatment that is treatment directed specifically toward the improvement of a disease pathological condition or disorder and also includes causal treatment that is treatment directed toward removal of the cause of the associated disease pathological condition or disorder. In addition this term includes palliative treatment that is treatment designed for the relief of symptoms rather than the curing of the disease pathological condition or disorder preventative treatment that is treatment directed to minimizing or partially or completely inhibiting the development of the associated disease pathological condition or disorder and supportive treatment that is treatment employed to supplement another specific therapy directed toward the improvement of the associated disease pathological condition or disorder. For example in some embodiments treatment refers to the healing bone tissue that is fractured and or healing wounded skin tissue.

The term wet compressive strength as used herein refers to the compressive strength of an osteoimplant after being immersed in physiological saline e.g. phosphate buffered saline PBS water containing 0.9 g NaCl 100 ml water etc. for a minimum of 12 hours e.g. 24 hours . Compressive strength and modulus are well known measurements of mechanical properties and is measured using the procedure described herein

The term working time as used herein is defined in the ISO9917 standard as the period of time measured from the start of mixing during which it is possible to manipulate a dental material without an adverse effect on its properties Clarkin et al. 2009 20 1563 1570 . In some embodiments the working time for a two component polyurethane is determined by the gel point the time at which the crosslink density of the polymer network is sufficiently high that the material gels and no longer flows. According to the present invention the working time is measured by loading the syringe with the reactive composite and injecting 

The term wound as used herein refers to any defect injury disorder damage or the like of tissue. In some embodiments a wound can be a bone fracture. In some embodiments a wound is damaged skin or skin that must heal from a particular disorder.

The details of one or more embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter are set forth in this document. Modifications to embodiments described in this document and other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of the information provided in this document. The information provided in this document and particularly the specific details of the described exemplary embodiments is provided primarily for clearness of understanding and no unnecessary limitations are to be understood therefrom. In case of conflict the specification of this document including definitions will control.

Aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter include biodegradable poly thioketal urethane PTK UR tissue scaffolds. In some embodiments the scaffolds comprise a polythioketal polymer and polyisocyanates. Exemplary scaffolds can be used to treat tissue. Other exemplary scaffolds can also be used as delivery systems for biologically active agents to promote tissue healing and regeneration.

The present inventors discovered a more ubiquitous cell mediated signal for scaffold degradation. ROS are key mediators of cell function in both health and disease especially at sites of inflammation and tissue healing. Utilizing these cell generated molecules as triggers for selective polymer degradation the present inventors conceived of a tissue scaffold with well matched rates of tissue ingrowth and cell mediated scaffold degradation. Novel poly thioketal polymers featuring tunable reactive end chemistries chain compositions and ROS mediated degradation rates have been developed towards this end. These PTK polymers can be incorporated into 3D porous tissue engineering scaffolds with more robust mechanical properties than similar constructs fabricated from standard polyesters. PTK UR scaffolds can be selectively degraded by ROS and could be stable under aqueous conditions. Thus embodiments of the present scaffolds exhibit biodegradability that is cell mediated. Moreover the oxidative degradation rates of the PTK URs can follow first order degradation kinetics and exhibit dose dependent degradation with respect to ROS levels. PTK scaffolds can support cell growth cell infiltration and granulation tissue formation. PTK URs represent a useful new class of biomaterials that provide a robust cell degradable substrate for guiding new tissue formation.

Some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter relate to scaffolds that can be used in a large variety of clinical applications for example as bone void fillers to repair or help healing of skeletal deficiencies resulting from trauma tumors surgery iatrogenic congenital genetic metabolic and degenerative or abnormal development and inflammatory infection. In some embodiments scaffolds promote cellular infiltration from adjacent osseous tissues thus accelerating the remodeling process. In some embodiments scaffolds aid in the treatment of cutaneous wounds.

The presently disclosed subject matter also provides methods of preparing and using inventive composites as well as kits for preparing and or administering inventive composites. Inventive porous composites may be prepared using any of a variety of methods. In some embodiments inventive composites are prepared using a method that includes water as a blowing agent. In one embodiment the scaffolds are injected extruded molded or similarly delivered to a tissue site e.g. bony defect or cutaneous wound of a subject. Inventive composites are engineered to set in situ to form a solid composite that may have a desired or predetermined mechanical strength. In certain embodiments the scaffolds may include monomers or pre polymers.

Synthetic polymers can be designed with properties targeted for a given clinical application. According to the present invention polyurethanes PUR are a useful class of biomaterials due to the fact that they can be injectable or moldable as a reactive liquid that subsequently cures to form a porous composite. These materials also have tunable degradation rates which are shown to be highly dependent on the choice of polyol and isocyanate components Hafeman et al. 2008 25 10 2387 99 Storey et al. 1994 32 2345 63 Skarja et al. 2000 75 1522 34 . Polyurethanes have tunable mechanical properties which can also be enhanced with the addition of bone particles and or other components Adhikari et al. 2008 29 3762 70 Gorna et al. 2003 67A 3 813 27 and exhibit elastomeric rather than brittle mechanical properties. Polyurethanes can be made by reacting together the components of a two component composition one of which includes a polyisocyanate while the other includes a component having two or more hydroxyl groups i.e. polyols to react with the polyisocyanate. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 306 177 discloses a method for repairing a tissue site using polyurethanes the content of which is incorporated by reference

It is to be understood that by a two component composition it means a composition comprising two essential types of polymer components. In some embodiments such a composition may additionally comprise one or more other optional components.

In some embodiments polyurethane is a polymer that has been rendered formable through combination of two liquid components i.e. a polythioketal polymer and a polyisocyanate . In some embodiments a polyisocyanate or a polythioketal polymer may be a molecule with two or more isocyanate or hydroxyl groups respectively. In some embodiments a polyisocyanate may have at least four isocyanate.

Synthesis of biodegradable scaffolds results from a reaction between a polythioketal PTK polymer and polyisocyanate. The PTK polymer itself can be made through a reaction between one or more different subunits e.g. dithiols as illustrated below in Scheme 1. An isocyanate can react with the terminal functional group e.g. hydroxyl of the PTK polymer. The relative rates of these reactions determine the scaffold morphology working time and setting time.

The PTK UR scaffolds described herein are the product of the reaction between at least two components namely a polythioketal polymer which can be a copolymer and a polyisocyanate. In some embodiments multiple different PTK and or PTK URs e.g. different structures difference molecular weights may be used in a composite composition of the present invention. In some embodiments other biocompatible and or biodegradable polymers may be used with the present scaffolds.

The polythioketal polymer and polyisocyanate can be mixed in any proportion that results in a scaffolds having desired characteristics in terms of strength flowability and the like. For example the scaffolds can comprise about 5 mol 10 mol 15 mol 20 mol 25 mol 30 mol 35 mol 40 mol 45 mol 50 mol 55 mol 60 mol 65 mol 70 mol 75 mol 80 mol 85 mol 90 mol 95 mol PTK polymer or polyisocyanate. Similarly to the PUR scaffolds discussed above the ratio of PTK polymer to polyisocyanate can be optimized so there is a deficiency or an excess of the number of reactive groups of the PTK polymer in relation to the NCO equivalents on the polyisocyanate. On the other hand in some embodiments there is an approximately stoichiometric ratio of PTK polymer functional groups to NCO groups on the polyisocyanates.

In some embodiments the reaction is balanced with use of an index. The index can be calculated using the following formula INDEX 100 number of NCO equivalents number of OH SH or other equivalents.

Then the relative amounts of isocyanate e.g. HDIt and PTK polymer can be selected so as to obtain a predetermined index. In some embodiments the index is in the range of approximately 80 to 150. In other embodiments the index is about 80 85 90 95 100 105 110 115 120 125 130 or 135.

Polyisocyanates and or PTK polymers can be selected to produce polymers having various physiochemical properties and morphologies including for example flexible foams rigid foams elastomers coatings adhesives and sealants. The properties of scaffolds are controlled by choice of the raw materials and their relative concentrations. For example PTK comprising a relatively high concentration of ether groups for example from 2 mercaptoethylether MEE subunits can degrade at relatively faster rates that other scaffolds. The molecular weights of the PTK polymer the subunits of the PTK polymer and or the polyisocyanates can also be varied to manipulate the degradability density and other characteristics of the scaffolds. In some embodiments the present scaffolds are comprised of a network of PTK polymers and polyisocyanates that are cross linked i.e. covalently bound through a curing process. In some embodiments pores in bone polyurethanes composites in the present invention are interconnected and have a diameter ranging from approximately 50 to approximately 1000 microns.

As discussed above the density of the scaffolds can be varied depending on the components selected for its manufacture. In some embodiments scaffolds can comprise a density of about 50 mg m about 75 mg m about 100 mg m about 125 mg m about 150 mg m about 175 mg m about 200 mg m about 225 mg m or about 250 mg m. In some embodiments the scaffolds preferably will comprise a density of about 80 mg mto about 200 mg m and even more preferably of about about 80 mg m to about 150 mg m. In general the density of a scaffold will increase as its porosity decreases.

Polyisocyanates or multi isocyanate compounds for use in the present invention include aliphatic polyisocyanates. Exemplary aliphatic polyisocyanates include but are not limited to lysine diisocyanate an alkyl ester of lysine diisocyanate for example the methyl ester or the ethyl ester lysine triisocyanate hexamethylene diisocyanate isophorone diisocyanate IPDI 4 4 dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate HMDI cyclohexyl diisocyanate 2 2 4 2 2 4 trimethylhexamethylene diisocyanate TMDI dimers prepared form aliphatic polyisocyanates trimers prepared from aliphatic polyisocyanates and or mixtures thereof. In some embodiments hexamethylene diisocyanate HDI trimer HDIt sold as Desmodur N3300A may be a polyisocyanate utilized in the present invention. In some embodiments polyisocyanates used in the present invention includes approximately 10 to 55 NCO by weight wt NCO 100 42 Mw . In some embodiments polyisocyanates include approximately 15 to 50 NCO.

Some embodiments of the present invention instead of polyester polyols utilize a polythioketal PTK polymer. Any polythioketal can be used. In some embodiments the polythioketal has a molecular weight of about 500 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 7 000 8 000 9 000 10 000 11 000 12 000 13 000 14 000 15 000 16 000 17 000 18 000 19 000 or 20 000 g mol. In some embodiments the PTK polymer preferably includes molecular weight of about 1 000 to about 10 000 g mol. As is understood by those in the art polythioketal refers to a compound having a plurality of thioketal units which are represented by the following formula 

Embodiments of scaffolds that are made from a PTK advantageously do not degrade hydrolytically or at a particular pH. Embodiments of scaffolds comprising PTK also do not autocatalytically degrade. Instead exemplary PTK scaffolds can degrade by reactive oxygen species which are a cell created phenomenon. Thus the degradation rate of PTK scaffolds depends on the conditions created by the cellular environment and is not affected by a scaffold s own degradation products. Furthermore this mechanism helps degradation of a scaffold comprising PTK to proceed from the scaffold s exterior where it is exposed to a biological environment rather than from its interior where degradation products may accumulate.

The tunable degradation rates of scaffolds can be varied depending on the particular environment that a scaffold comprising PTK is in. However certain embodiments of scaffolds comprising PTK have half lives in oxidative medium i.e. 20 wt hydrogen peroxide in 0.1 M cobalt chloride of about 5 days 10 day 15 days 20 days 25 days 30 days 45 days 60 days 90 days 120 days 150 days or 180 days. In other embodiments scaffolds comprising PTK have half lives of one or more years. Preferably for certain bone and skin treatment applications the half life of a scaffold comprising PTK is between 5 days and 120 days.

A further advantage of PTK scaffolds is that their degradation rates are tunable and controllable. For example in some embodiments the degradation rate of a PTK scaffold is tuned to match the rate of cellular ingrowth and activity within the scaffold. This will allow PTK scaffolds to have superior mechanical integrity during the entire time period of tissue treatment healing and remodeling. Furthermore unlike prior scaffolds this can reduce or eliminate the extent to which gaps are formed between tissue that is growing and the scaffold that is degrading.

In some embodiments the polythioketal polymer comprises one or more ethylene glycol units which optionally may be poly ethylene glycol units depending on the precursors chosen to synthesize the PTK. Thus the PTK polymer can be a copolymer having thioketal units and ethylene glycol units either of which may or may not be repeating in the copolymer. The polythioketal polymers can comprise any percentage of ethylene glycol units and the scaffold may comprise about 1 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 99 ethylene glycol units. In some embodiments the percentage of ethylene glycol in a PTK polymer is calculated based on the percentage of units in a polymer that comprising ethylene glycol e.g. 2 mercaptoethylether .

PTK polymers can be synthesized from any number of combinations of precursor compounds subunits . Precursors include known dithiol monomers. Notably some PTK and ethylene glycol copolymers are synthesized from a precursor comprising one or more ethylene glycol units which may or may not be repeating e.g. poly ethylene glycol dithiols . Some PTK polymers are synthesized using precursors comprising one or more thiol groups such as precursors that are a dithiol or more specifically a dithiol functional oligo ethelyne gycol. In some embodiments a precursor can comprise one or more ketal groups. In some embodiments the precursor used to synthesize the PEG PTK copolymer is a dithiol selected from the group consisting of 2 mercaptoethyl ether di ethylene glycol dithiol 2 2 ethylenedioxy diethanethiol tri ethylene glycol dithiol 2 2 2 2 oxybis ethane 2 1 diyl bis oxy diethanethiol tetra ethylene glycol dithiol 3 6 9 12 15 pentaoxaheptadecane 1 17 dithiol tetraethylene glycol di ethanediol hexa ethylene glycol dithiol . Of course by varying the types and proportions of precursors utilized desired mechanical and degradation characteristics can be obtained.

Degradation properties can be tuned by among other things using precursors to modify the distance between thioketal linkers in a polythioketal polymers. In other embodiments degradation can be tuned by varying the concentration of other groups in the PTK polymer and or polyisocyanate. For example scaffolds can degrade at a faster rate as the concentration of ether groups in the PTK polymer increases. Thus the inclusion of poly ethylene glycol dithiols to a PTK polymer can increase the relatively degradation rate of the resulting PTK UR scaffold.

In this regard in some embodiments the present scaffolds comprise a PTK polymer that includes a poly ethylene glycol dithiol e.g. di ethylene glycol dithiol and another dithiol. The other dithiol can be an alkane dithiol. The alkane dithiol can have any suitable number of carbon atoms and in some embodiments comprises 1 to 10 carbon atoms. An exemplary alkane dithiol includes 1 4 butanedithiol. Nevertheless for PTK polymer comprise a di ethylene glycol dithiol and another dithiol the molecular ratio of the di ethylene glycol dithiol to the other dithiol can be 100 0 no other dithiol to 0 100 no di ethylene glycol dithiol . Thus the resulting PTK polymer can comprise about 5 10 15 20 25 30 40 45 50 55 60 65. 70 75 80 85 90 or 95 mol of the di ethylene glycol dithiol.

Furthermore some embodiments the PTK polymers can have their functional groups modified. In specific embodiments the terminal functional groups or the function groups at opposite ends of a polymer backbone and or branch have modified functional groups. For example in some embodiments the end groups of the PTK polymer can be modified with hydroxyl or amine functional groups rather than the sulfhydryl groups that result from the synthesis of a PTK polymer. In some embodiments the PTK polymers comprising terminal SH groups including nonfunctionalized PTK polymers have relatively higher reactivities than PTK polymers having hydroxyl terminal groups. Accordingly in some embodiments comprising thiol terminal groups can utilize 0.001 5 pphp catalyst e.g. triethylene diamine TEDA and preferably 0.001 2 pphp TEDA whereas embodiments comprising hydroxyl terminal groups can utilize 0.1 10 pphp TEDA and preferably 0.5 5 pphp. This different reactivity is caused by among other things what is known in the art as click chemistry. Please see Shin et al. Thiol Isocyanate Ene Ternary Networks by Sequential and Simultaneous Thiol Click Reactions 2010 22 2616 2625 for a discussion regarding click chemistry in thiol terminated polymers.

As discussed more in detail below embodiments of scaffolds including PTK scaffolds can optionally comprise one or more of a catalyst water a stabilizer or a pore opener. In some embodiments the catalyst comprises one or more amines including for example a solution of triethylene diamine in dipropyleneglycol. In some embodiments the stabilizer is sulfated caster oil Turkey red oil and in some embodiments the pore opener can be calcium stearate.

These components can be added to the scaffold in any amount to achieve desired properties in the scaffold. In some embodiments the pore opener catalyst and or stabilizer are added so as to achieve about 0 10 parts per hundred parts polyol pphp of each component.

Furthermore and as discussed herein any isocyanate can be used in the synthesis of biodegradable scaffolds. For example embodiments of scaffolds that comprise a PTK polymer comprise LTI or HDIt.

By manipulating the polyisocyanate and polythioketal polymer utilized to form a PTK UR scaffold the degradation characteristics of the scaffold can be optimized. The degradation can be further optimized by functionalizing the PTK polymer with functional groups such as hydroxyl and amine groups. Further still degradation can be affected by varying the precursors subunits used to synthesize the PTK polymer which among other things can change the distance between thioketal units in the PTK polymer.

As discussed in detail below the scaffold comprising PTK polymers can also be used to deliver one or more additional components including bioactive agents to a particular site.

In accordance with the present invention two component compositions i.e. polyisocyanates and poly thioketal polymers to form porous composites may be used with other agents and or catalysts. Zhang et al. have found that water may be an adequate blowing agent for a lysine diisocyanate PEG glycerol polyurethane see Zhang et al. 2003 6 1143 57 and may also be used to form porous structures in polyurethanes. Other blowing agents include dry ice or other agents that release carbon dioxide or other gases into the composite. Alternatively or in addition porogens see detail discussion below such as salts may be mixed in with reagents and then dissolved after polymerization to leave behind small voids.

Two component compositions and or the prepared composites used in the present invention may include one or more additional components. In some embodiments inventive compositions and or composites may include water a catalyst e.g. gelling catalyst blowing catalyst etc. a stabilizer a plasticizer a porogen a chain extender for making of polyurethanes a pore opener such as calcium stearate to control pore morphology a wetting or lubricating agent etc. See U.S. Ser. No. 10 759 904 published under No. 2005 0013793 and U.S. Ser. No. 11 625 119 published under No. 2007 0191963 both of which are incorporated herein by reference .

In some embodiments inventive compositions and or composites may include and or be combined with a solid filler e.g. carboxymethylcellulose CMC hyaluronic acid HA bone . For example when composites used in wound healing solid fillers can help absorb excess moisture in the wounds from blood and serum and allow for proper foaming.

In certain embodiments additional biocompatible polymers e.g. PEG or co polymers can be used with compositions and composites in the present invention.

Water may be a blowing agent to generate porous polyurethane based composites. Porosity of bone polymer composites increased with increasing water content and biodegradation rate accelerated with decreasing polyester half life thereby yielding a family of materials with tunable properties that are useful in the present invention. See Guelcher et al. Tissue Engineering 13 9 2007 pp 2321 2333 which is incorporated by reference.

In some embodiments an amount of water is about 0.5 1 1.5 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 parts per hundred parts pphp polyol. In some embodiments water has an approximate range of any of such amounts.

In some embodiments at least one catalyst is added to form reactive liquid mixture i.e. two component compositions . A catalyst for example can be non toxic in a concentration that may remain in the polymer .

A catalyst can for example be present in two component compositions in a concentration in the range of approximately 0.5 to 5 parts per hundred parts polyol pphp and for example in the range of approximately 0.5 to 2 or 2 to 3 pphp. A catalyst can for example be an amine compound. In some embodiments catalyst may be an organometallic compound or a tertiary amine compound. In some embodiments the catalyst may be stannous octoate an organobismuth compound triethylene diamine optionally in solution with dipropyleneglycol bis dimethylaminoethyl ether dimethylethanolamine dibutyltin dilaurate and Coscat organometallic catalysts manufactured by Vertullus a bismuth based catalyst or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments a stabilizer is nontoxic in a concentration remaining in the polyurethane foam and can include a non ionic surfactant an anionic surfactant or combinations thereof. For example a stabilizer can be a polyethersiloxane a salt of a fatty sulfonic acid or a salt of a fatty acid. In certain embodiments a stabilizer is a polyethersiloxane and the concentration of polyethersiloxane in a reactive liquid mixture can for example be in the range of approximately 0.25 to 4 parts per hundred polyol. In some embodiments polyethersiloxane stabilizer is hydrolyzable.

In some embodiments the stabilizer can be a salt of a fatty sulfonic acid. Concentration of a salt of the fatty sulfonic acid in a reactive liquid mixture can be in the range of approximately 0.5 to 5 parts per hundred polyol. Examples of suitable stabilizers include a sulfated castor oil or sodium ricinoleicsulfonate.

Stabilizers can be added to a reactive liquid mixture of the present invention to for example disperse prepolymers polyols and other additional components stabilize the rising carbon dioxide bubbles and or control pore sizes of inventive composites. Although there has been a great deal of study of stabilizers the operation of stabilizers during foaming is not completely understood. Without limitation to any mechanism of operation it is believed that stabilizers preserve the thermodynamically unstable state of a polyurethane foam during the time of rising by surface forces until the foam is hardened. In that regard foam stabilizers lower the surface tension of the mixture of starting materials and operate as emulsifiers for the system. Stabilizers catalysts and other polyurethane reaction components are discussed for example in Oertel G nter ed. Hanser Gardner Publications Inc. Cincinnati Ohio 99 108 1994 . A specific effect of stabilizers is believed to be the formation of surfactant monolayers at the interface of higher viscosity of bulk phase thereby increasing the elasticity of surface and stabilizing expanding foam bubbles.

To prepare high molecular weight polymers prepolymers are chain extended by adding a short chain e.g. 

In some embodiments inventive compositions and or composites include one or more plasticizers. Plasticizers are typically compounds added to polymers or plastics to soften them or make them more pliable. According to the present invention plasticizers soften make workable or otherwise improve the handling properties of polymers or composites. Plasticizers also allow inventive composites to be moldable at a lower temperature thereby avoiding heat induced tissue necrosis during implantation. Plasticizer may evaporate or otherwise diffuse out of the composite over time thereby allowing composites to harden or set. Without being bound to any theory plasticizer are thought to work by embedding themselves between the chains of polymers. This forces polymer chains apart and thus lowers the glass transition temperature of polymers. In general the more plasticizer added the more flexible the resulting polymers or composites will be.

In some embodiments plasticizers are based on an ester of a polycarboxylic acid with linear or branched aliphatic alcohols of moderate chain length. For example some plasticizers are adipate based. Examples of adipate based plasticizers include bis 2 ethylhexyl adipate DOA dimethyl adipate DMAD monomethyl adipate MMAD and dioctyl adipate DOA . Other plasticizers are based on maleates sebacates or citrates such as bibutyl maleate DBM diisobutylmaleate DIBM dibutyl sebacate DBS triethyl citrate TEC acetyl triethyl citrate ATEC tributyl citrate TBC acetyl tributyl citrate ATBC trioctyl citrate TOC acetyl trioctyl citrate ATOC trihexyl citrate THC acetyl trihexyl citrate ATHC butyryl trihexyl citrate BTHC and trimethylcitrate TMC . Other plasticizers are phthalate based. Examples of phthalate based plasticizers are N methyl phthalate bis 2 ethylhexyl phthalate DEHP diisononyl phthalate DINP bis n butyl phthalate DBP butyl benzyl phthalate BBzP diisodecyl phthalate DOP diethyl phthalate DEP diisobutyl phthalate DIBP and di n hexyl phthalate. Other suitable plasticizers include liquid polyhydroxy compounds such as glycerol polyethylene glycol PEG triethylene glycol sorbitol monacetin diacetin and mixtures thereof. Other plasticizers include trimellitates e.g. trimethyl trimellitate TMTM tri 2 ethylhexyl trimellitate TEHTM MG tri n octyl n decyl trimellitate ATM tri heptyl nonyl trimellitate LTM n octyl trimellitate OTM benzoates epoxidized vegetable oils sulfonamides e.g. N ethyl toluene sulfonamide ETSA N 2 hydroxypropyl benzene sulfonamide HP BSA N n butyl butyl sulfonamide BBSA NBBS organophosphates e.g. tricresyl phosphate TCP tributyl phosphate TBP glycols polyethers e.g. triethylene glycol dihexanoate tetraethylene glycol diheptanoate and polymeric plasticizers. Other plasticizers are described in G. Wypych Ed. ChemTec Publishing 2004 which is incorporated herein by reference. In certain embodiments other polymers are added to the composite as plasticizers. In certain particular embodiments polymers with the same chemical structure as those used in the composite are used but with lower molecular weights to soften the overall composite. In other embodiments different polymers with lower melting points and or lower viscosities than those of the polymer component of the composite are used.

In some embodiments polymers used as plasticizer are poly ethylene glycol PEG . PEG used as a plasticizer is typically a low molecular weight PEG such as those having an average molecular weight of 1000 to 10000 g mol for example from 4000 to 8000 g mol. In certain embodiments PEG 4000 PEG 5000 PEG 6000 PEG 7000 PEG 8000 or combinations thereof are used in inventive composites. For example plasticizer PEG is useful in making more moldable composites that include poly lactide poly D L lactide poly lactide co glycolide poly D L lactide co glycolide or poly caprolactone . Plasticizer may comprise 1 40 of inventive composites by weight. In some embodiments the plasticizer is 10 30 by weight. In some embodiments the plasticizer is approximately 10 15 20 25 30 or 40 by weight. In other embodiments a plasticizer is not used in the composite. For example in some polycaprolactone containing composites a plasticizer is not used.

In some embodiments inert plasticizers may be used. In some embodiments a plasticizer may not be used in the present invention.

Porosity of inventive composites may be accomplished using any means known in the art. Exemplary methods of creating porosity in a composite include but are not limited to particular leaching processes gas foaming processing supercritical carbon dioxide processing sintering phase transformation freeze drying cross linking molding porogen melting polymerization melt blowing and salt fusion Murphy et al. 8 1 43 52 2002 incorporated herein by reference . For a review see Karageorgiou et al. 26 5474 5491 2005 incorporated herein by reference. Porosity may be a feature of inventive composites during manufacture or before implantation or porosity may only be available after implantation. For example an implanted composite may include latent pores. These latent pores may arise from including porogens in the composite.

Porogens may be any chemical compound that will reserve a space within the composite while the composite is being molded and will diffuse dissolve and or degrade prior to or after implantation or injection leaving a pore in the composite. Porogens may have the property of not being appreciably changed in shape and or size during the procedure to make the composite moldable. For example a porogen should retain its shape during the heating of the composite to make it moldable. Therefore a porogen does not melt upon heating of the composite to make it moldable. In certain embodiments a porogen has a melting point greater than about 60 C. greater than about 70 C. greater than about 80 C. greater than about 85 C. or greater than about 90 C.

Porogens may be of any shape or size. A porogen may be spheroidal cuboidal rectangular elongated tubular fibrous disc shaped platelet shaped polygonal etc. In certain embodiments the porogen is granular with a diameter ranging from approximately 100 microns to approximately 800 microns. In certain embodiments a porogen is elongated tubular or fibrous. Such porogens provide increased connectivity of pores of inventive composite and or also allow for a lesser percentage of the porogen in the composite.

Amount of porogens may vary in inventive composite from 1 to 80 by weight. In certain embodiments the plasticizer makes up from about 5 to about 80 by weight of the composite. In certain embodiments a plasticizer makes up from about 10 to about 50 by weight of the composite. Pores in inventive composites are thought to improve the osteoinductivity or osteoconductivity of the composite by providing holes for cells such as osteoblasts osteoclasts fibroblasts cells of the osteoblast lineage stem cells etc. Pores provide inventive composites with biological in growth capacity. Pores may also provide for easier degradation of inventive composites as bone is formed and or remodeled. In some embodiments a porogen is biocompatible.

A porogen may be a gas liquid or solid. Exemplary gases that may act as porogens include carbon dioxide nitrogen argon or air. Exemplary liquids include water organic solvents or biological fluids e.g. blood lymph plasma . Gaseous or liquid porogen may diffuse out of the osteoimplant before or after implantation thereby providing pores for biological in growth. Solid porogens may be crystalline or amorphous. Examples of possible solid porogens include water soluble compounds. Exemplary porogens include carbohydrates e.g. sorbitol dextran poly dextrose starch salts sugar alcohols natural polymers synthetic polymers and small molecules.

In some embodiments carbohydrates are used as porogens in inventive composites. A carbohydrate may be a monosaccharide disaccharide or polysaccharide. The carbohydrate may be a natural or synthetic carbohydrate. In some embodiments the carbohydrate is a biocompatible biodegradable carbohydrate. In certain embodiments the carbohydrate is a polysaccharide. Exemplary polysaccharides include cellulose starch amylose dextran poly dextrose glycogen etc.

In certain embodiments a polysaccharide is dextran. Very high molecular weight dextran has been found particularly useful as a porogen. For example the molecular weight of the dextran may range from about 500 000 g mol to about 10 000 000 g mol preferably from about 1 000 000 g mol to about 3 000 000 g mol. In certain embodiments the dextran has a molecular weight of approximately 2 000 000 g mol. Dextrans with a molecular weight higher than 10 000 000 g mol may also be used as porogens. Dextran may be used in any form e.g. particles granules fibers elongated fibers as a porogen. In certain embodiments fibers or elongated fibers of dextran are used as a porogen in inventive composites. Fibers of dextran may be formed using any known method including extrusion and precipitation. Fibers may be prepared by precipitation by adding an aqueous solution of dextran e.g. 5 25 dextran to a less polar solvent such as a 90 100 alcohol e.g. ethanol solution. The dextran precipitates out in fibers that are particularly useful as porogens in the inventive composite. Once the composite with dextran as a porogen is implanted into a subject the dextran dissolves away very quickly. Within approximately 24 hours substantially all of dextran is out of composites leaving behind pores in the osteoimplant composite. An advantage of using dextran in a composite is that dextran exhibits a hemostatic property in extravascular space. Therefore dextran in a composite can decrease bleeding at or near the site of implantation.

Small molecules including pharmaceutical agents may also be used as porogens in the inventive composites. Examples of polymers that may be used as plasticizers include poly vinyl pyrollidone pullulan poly glycolide poly lactide and poly lactide co glycolide . Typically low molecular weight polymers are used as porogens. In certain embodiments a porogen is poly vinyl pyrrolidone or a derivative thereof. Plasticizers that are removed faster than the surrounding composite can also be considered porogens.

Alternatively or additionally composites of the present invention may have one or more components to deliver when implanted including biomolecules small molecules bioactive agents cells etc. to promote tissue regeneration growth and healing. Examples of materials that can be incorporated include chemotactic factors angiogenic factors bone cell inducers and stimulators including the general class of cytokines such as the TGF superfamily of bone growth factors the family of bone morphogenic proteins osteoinductors and or bone marrow or bone forming precursor cells isolated using standard techniques. Sources and amounts of such materials that can be included are known to those skilled in the art.

Biologically active materials comprising biomolecules small molecules and bioactive agents may also be included in inventive composites to for example stimulate particular metabolic functions recruit cells or reduce inflammation. For example nucleic acid vectors including plasmids and viral vectors that will be introduced into the patient s cells and cause the production of growth factors such as bone morphogenetic proteins may be included in a composite. Biologically active agents include but are not limited to antiviral agent antimicrobial agent antibiotic agent amino acid peptide protein glycoprotein lipoprotein antibody steroidal compound antibiotic antimycotic cytokine vitamin carbohydrate lipid extracellular matrix extracellular matrix component chemotherapeutic agent cytotoxic agent growth factor anti rejection agent analgesic anti inflammatory agent viral vector protein synthesis co factor hormone endocrine tissue synthesizer enzyme polymer cell scaffolding agent with parenchymal cells angiogenic drug collagen lattice antigenic agent cytoskeletal agent mesenchymal stem cells bone digester antitumor agent cellular attractant fibronectin growth hormone cellular attachment agent immunosuppressant nucleic acid surface active agent hydroxyapatite and penetraction enhancer. Additional exemplary substances include chemotactic factors angiogenic factors analgesics antibiotics anti inflammatory agents bone morphogenic proteins and other growth factors that promote cell directed degradation or remodeling of the polymer phase of the composite and or development of new tissue e.g. bone . RNAi or other technologies may also be used to reduce the production of various factors.

In some embodiments inventive composites include antibiotics. Antibiotics may be bacteriocidial or bacteriostatic. An anti microbial agent may be included in composites. For example anti viral agents anti protazoal agents anti parasitic agents etc. may be include in composites. Other suitable biostatic biocidal agents include antibiotics povidone sugars and mixtures thereof. Exemplary antibiotics include but not limit to Amikacin Gentamicin Kanamycin Neomycin Netilmicin Streptomycin Tobramycin Paromomycin Geldanamycin Herbimycin Loravabef etc. See 1999 .

Inventive composites may also be seeded with cells. In some embodiments a patient s own cells are obtained and used in inventive composites. Certain types of cells e.g. osteoblasts fibroblasts stem cells cells of the osteoblast lineage etc. may be selected for use in the composite. Cells may be harvested from marrow blood fat bone muscle connective tissue skin or other tissues or organs. In some embodiments a patient s own cells may be harvested optionally selected expanded and used in the inventive composite. In other embodiments a patient s cells may be harvested selected without expansion and used in the inventive composite. Alternatively exogenous cells may be employed. Exemplary cells for use with the invention include mesenchymal stem cells and connective tissue cells including osteoblasts osteoclasts fibroblasts preosteoblasts and partially differentiated cells of the osteoblast lineage. Cells may be genetically engineered. For example cells may be engineered to produce a bone morphogenic protein.

In some embodiments inventive composites may include a composite material comprising a component to deliver. For example a composite materials can be a biomolecule e.g. a protein encapsulated in a polymeric microsphere or nanoparticles. In certain embodiments BMP 2 encapsulated in PLGA microspheres may be embedded in a bone polyurethane composite used in accordance with the present invention. Sustained release of BMP 2 can be achieved due to the diffusional barriers presented by both the PLGA and Polyurethane of the inventive composite. Thus release kinetics of growth factors e.g. BMP 2 can be tuned by varying size of PLGA microspheres and porosity of polyurethane composite.

To enhance biodegradation in vivo composites of the present invention can also include different enzymes. Examples of suitable enzymes or similar reagents are proteases or hydrolases with ester hydrolyzing capabilities. Such enzymes include but are not limited to proteinase K bromelaine pronase E cellulase dextranase elastase plasmin streptokinase trypsin chymotrypsin papain chymopapain collagenase subtilisin chlostridopeptidase A ficin carboxypeptidase A pectinase pectinesterase an oxireductase an oxidase or the like. The inclusion of an appropriate amount of such a degradation enhancing agent can be used to regulate implant duration.

Components to deliver may not be covalently bonded to a component of the composite. In some embodiments components may be selectively distributed on or near the surface of inventive composites using the layering techniques described above. While surface of inventive composite will be mixed somewhat as the composite is manipulated in implant site thickness of the surface layer will ensure that at least a portion of the surface layer of the composite remains at surface of the implant. Alternatively or in addition biologically active components may be covalently linked to the bone particles before combination with the polymer. As discussed above for example silane coupling agents having amine carboxyl hydroxyl or mercapto groups may be attached to the bone particles through the silane and then to reactive groups on a biomolecule small molecule or bioactive agent.

In general inventive scaffolds are prepared by combining two or more polymers compounds particles and or any additional components. To form inventive scaffolds a poly thioketal polymer and a polyisocyanate as discussed herein may be combined with a reactive liquid i.e. a two component composition thereby forming a naturally injectable or moldable scaffold or a scaffold that can be made injectable or moldable. Alternatively components to be delivered may be combined with polyisocyanate or PTK polymer first and then combined with other components.

In some embodiments particles may be combined first with a hardener that includes a PTK polymer and optionally one or more of water a catalyst a solvent a diluent a stabilizer a porogen a plasticizer etc. and then the hardener is combined with a polyisocyanate. In some embodiments a hardener e.g. a PTK polymer water and a catalyst may be mixed with components to be delivered e.g. biologically active agents or components that are to be incorporated into the scaffold e.g. porogens bone powder etc. . In some embodiments in order to enhance storage stability of two component compositions the two liquid component process may be modified to an alternative three liquid component process wherein a catalyst and water may be dissolved in a solution separating from reactive PTK polymers. For example PTK polymers may be first mixed with a solution of a catalyst and water followed by addition of polyisocynates. The polyisocyanates described herein include various NCO terminated compounds.

In some embodiments additional components or components to be delivered may be combined with a reactive liquid prior to injection. In some embodiments they may be combined with one of precursors i.e. polyisocyanate and PTK polymers prior to mixing the precursors in forming of a reactive liquid paste.

In some embodiments catalysts can be used to assist forming porous composites. In general the more blowing catalyst used the high porosity of inventive composites may be achieved

The precursors may be combined by any method known to those skilled in the art. For example a homogenous mixture of precursors e.g. PTK polymer polyisocyanate etc. and particles may be pressed together at ambient or elevated temperatures. At elevated temperatures a process may also be accomplished without pressure. In some embodiments precursors are not held at a temperature of greater than approximately 60 C. for a significant time during mixing to prevent thermal damage to any biological component e.g. growth factors or cells of a scaffold. In some embodiments temperature is not a concern because precursors used in the present invention have a low reaction exotherm.

Alternatively or in addition components may be mixed or folded into a scaffold softened by heat or a solvent. Alternatively a moldable scaffold may be formed into a sheet that is then covered with a layer of components to be delivered and or carried in the scaffold. Such components may then be forced into the scaffold sheet using pressure. In another embodiment components are individually coated with scaffolds or scaffold precursors for example using a tumbler spray coater or a fluidized bed before being mixed with a larger quantity of polymer. This facilitates even coating of the particles and improves integration of the particles and polymer component of the scaffold.

Polymers e.g. polyisocyanate PTK polymers combinations thereof may be further modified by further cross linking or polymerization to form a scaffold in which the polymer is covalently linked to the incorporated components.

In some embodiments an inventive scaffold is produced with an injectable composition and then set in situ. For example cross link density of a low molecular weight polymer may be increased by exposing it to electromagnetic radiation e.g. UV light or an alternative energy source. Alternatively or additionally a photoactive cross linking agent chemical cross linking agent additional monomer or combinations thereof may be mixed into inventive composites. Exposure to UV light after a composition is injected into an implant site will increase one or both of molecular weight and cross link density stiffening polymers i.e. polyurethanes and thereby a composite. Polymer components of inventive scaffold used in the present invention may be softened by a solvent e.g. ethanol.

In some embodiments it may be desirable to infiltrate a polymer or polymer precursor into vascular and or interstitial structure of bone particles or into bone derived tissues. Vascular structure of bone includes such structures such as osteocyte lacunae Haversian canals Volksmann s canals canaliculi and similar structures. Interstitial structure of bone particles includes spaces between trabeculae and similar features. Many of monomers and precursors e.g. polyisocyanate PTK polymers and subunits thereof suggested for use with the invention are sufficiently flowable to penetrate through the channels and pores of trabecular bone. Some may even penetrate into trabeculae or into mineralized fibrils of cortical bone. Thus it may be necessary to incubate bone particles in precursors for a period of time to accomplish infiltration. In certain embodiments the scaffold as a reactive mixture is itself sufficiently flowable that it can penetrate channels and pores of bone. In certain embodiments scaffolds may also be heated or combined with a solvent to make it more flowable for this purpose. Other ceramic materials and or other bone substitute materials employed as a particulate phase may also include porosity that can be infiltrated as described herein.

Inventive scaffolds of the present invention can exhibit high degrees of porosity over a wide range of effective pore sizes. Thus scaffolds may have at once macroporosity mesoporosity and microporosity. Macroporosity is characterized by pore diameters greater than about 100 microns. Mesoporosity is characterized by pore diameters between about 100 microns about 10 microns and microporosity occurs when pores have diameters below about 10 microns. In some embodiments the scaffold has a porosity of at least about 30 . For example in certain embodiments the scaffold has a porosity of more than about 50 more than about 60 more than about 70 more than about 80 or more than about 90 . In some embodiments inventive scaffolds have a porosity in a range of about 10 20 20 30 30 40 40 50 50 60 60 70 70 80 80 90 or 90 99 . Advantages of a porous scaffold over non porous scaffold include but are not limited to more extensive cellular and tissue in growth into the composite more continuous supply of nutrients more thorough infiltration of therapeutics and enhanced revascularization allowing tissue growth and repair to take place more efficiently. Furthermore in certain embodiments the porosity of the scaffold may be used to load the scaffold with biologically active agents such as drugs small molecules cells cells that are encapsulated in for example gel beads peptides polynucleotides growth factors osteogenic factors etc for delivery at the implant site. Porosity may also render certain composites of the present invention compressible.

In some embodiments pores of inventive scaffolds may be over 100 microns wide for the invasion of cells and bony in growth Klaitwatter et al. 2 161 1971 which is incorporated herein by reference . In certain embodiments the pore size may be in a ranges of approximately 50 microns to approximately 750 microns for example of approximately 100 microns to approximately 500 microns.

After implantation inventive composites are allowed to remain at the site and can provide the strength desired and promote healing of the tissue and or tissue growth. The scaffolds may be degraded or be resorbed as new tissue is formed at the implantation site. Polymer may be resorbed over approximately 1 week to approximately 1 years. Scaffolds may start to be remodeled in as little as a week as the composite is infiltrated with cells or new bone in growth. A remodeling process may continue for weeks months or years. For example scaffolds used in accordance with the present invention may be resorbed within about 4 8 weeks 2 6 months or 6 12 months. A degradation rate is defined as the mass loss as a function of time and it can be measured by immersing the sample in phosphate buffered saline or medium and measuring the sample mass as a function of time.

One skilled in the art will recognize that standard experimental techniques may be used to test these properties for a range of compositions to optimize a composite for a desired application.

As discussed above polymers or polymer precursors and other components may be supplied separately e.g. in a kit and mixed immediately prior to implantation injection or molding. A surgeon or other health care professional may also combine components in a kit with autologous tissue derived during surgery or biopsy. For example a surgeon may want to include autogenous tissue or cells e.g. bone marrow or bone shavings generated while preparing a implant site into a composite see more details in co owned U.S. Pat. No. 7 291 345 and U.S. Ser. No. 11 625 119 published under No. 2007 0191963 both of which are incorporated herein by reference .

In some embodiments a method for treating tissue in a subject in need thereof is provided. The method can comprise providing a biodegradable scaffold including on that includes a polythioketal polymer and a polyisocyanate and then contacting the tissue with the scaffold. In some embodiments the tissue is wound site. More specifically in some embodiments the tissue can be bone skin or the like.

Scaffolds of the present invention may be used in a wide variety of clinical applications. A method of preparing and using scaffolds for orthopedic applications utilized may include the steps of providing a curable scaffolds composition e.g. reactive mixture mixing parts of a composition and curing a composition in a tissue site wherein a composition is sufficiently flowable to permit injection by minimally invasive techniques. In some embodiments a flowable composition to inject may be pressed by hand or machine. In some embodiments a moldable composition may be pre molded and implanted into a target site. Injectable or moldable compositions utilized in the present invention may be processed e.g. mixed pressed molded etc. by hand or machine.

Inventive scaffolds and or compositions may be used as injectable materials with or without exhibiting high mechanical strength i.e. load bearing or non load bearing respectively . In some embodiments inventive scaffolds and or compositions may be used as moldable materials. For example compositions e.g. PTK polymer monomers reactive liquids pastes polymers bone particles additional components etc. in the present invention can be pre molded into pre determined shapes. Upon implantation the pre molded composite may further cure in situ and provide mechanical strength i.e. load bearing . A few examples of potential applications are discussed in more detail below.

In some embodiments compositions and or scaffolds may be used as a bone void filler. Bone fractures and defects which result from trauma injury infection malignancy or developmental malformation can be difficult to heal in certain circumstances. If a defect or gap is larger than a certain critical size natural bone is unable to bridge or fill the defect or gap. These are several deficiencies that may be associated with the presence of a void in a bone. Bone void may compromise mechanical integrity of bone making bone potentially susceptible to fracture until void becomes ingrown with native bone. Accordingly it is of interest to fill such voids with a substance which helps voids to eventually fill with naturally grown bone. Open fractures and defects in practically any bone may be filled with composites according to various embodiments without the need for periosteal flap or other material for retaining a composite in fracture or defect. Even where a composite is not required to bear weight physiological forces will tend to encourage remodeling of a composite to a shape reminiscent of original tissues.

Many orthopedic periodontal neurosurgical oral and maxillofacial surgical procedures require drilling or cutting into bone in order to harvest autologous implants used in procedures or to create openings for the insertion of implants. In either case voids are created in bones. In addition to all the deficiencies associated with bone void mentioned above surgically created bone voids may provide an opportunity for incubation and proliferation of any infective agents that are introduced during a surgical procedure. Another common side effect of any surgery is ecchymosis in surrounding tissues which results from bleeding of the traumatized tissues. Finally surgical trauma to bone and surrounding tissues is known to be a significant source of post operative pain and inflammation. Surgical bone voids are sometimes filled by the surgeon with autologous bone chips that are generated during trimming of bony ends of a graft to accommodate graft placement thus accelerating healing. However the volume of these chips is typically not sufficient to completely fill the void. Scaffolds and or compositions of the present invention for example scaffolds comprising anti infective and or anti inflammatory agents may be used to fill surgically created bone voids.

Similarly the present scaffolds can be useful for treating skin tissue. Skin tissue that is damaged injured or the like can be difficult to heal particularly if the damage or injury covers a wide area. The present scaffolds can serve to replace or supplement the need to add other tissue grafts e.g. autolougous tissue to help treat such tissue. As will be understood by those of ordinary skill upon reviewing the present paper the present scaffolds can be utilized to treat a variety of tissue types conditions injuries and the like.

Inventive scaffolds may be administered to a subject in need thereof using any technique known in the art. A subject is typically a patient with a disorder or disease related to bone. In certain embodiments a subject has a bony defect such as a fracture. Any bone disease or disorder may be treated using inventive composites compositions including genetic diseases congenital abnormalities fractures iatrogenic defects bone cancer bone metastases inflammatory diseases e.g. rheumatoid arthritis autoimmune diseases metabolic diseases and degenerative bone disease e.g. osteoarthritis . In certain embodiments inventive osteoimplant composites are formulated for repair of a simple fracture compound fracture or non union as an external fixation device or internal fixation device for joint reconstruction arthrodesis arthroplasty or cup arthroplasty of hips for femoral or humeral head replacement for femoral head surface replacement or total joint replacement for repair of vertebral column spinal fusion or internal vertebral fixation for tumor surgery for deficit filling for discectomy for laminectomy for excision of spinal tumors for an anterior cervical or thoracic operation for the repairs of a spinal injury for scoliosis for lordosis or kyphosis treatment for intermaxillary fixation of a fracture for mentoplasty for temporomandibular joint replacement for alveolar ridge augmentation and reconstruction as an inlay osteoimplant for implant placement and revision for sinus lift for a cosmetic procedure and for the repair or replacement of the ethmoid frontal nasal occipital parietal temporal mandible maxilla zygomatic cervical vertebra thoracic vertebra lumbar vertebra sacrum rib sternum clavicle scapula humerus radius ulna carpal bones metacarpal bones phalanges ilium ischium pubis femur tibia fibula patella calcaneus tarsal bones or metatarsal bones and for repair of bone surrounding cysts and tumors.

Scaffolds and or compositions of the present invention can be used as bone void fillers either alone or in combination with one or more other conventional devices for example to fill the space between a device and bone. Examples of such devices include but are not limited to bone fixation plates e.g. cranofacial maxillofacial orthopedic skeletal and the like screws tacks clips staples nails pins or rods anchors e.g. for suture bone and the like scaffolds scents meshes e.g. rigid expandable woven knitted weaved etc sponges implants for cell encapsulation or tissue engineering drug delivery e.g. carriers bone ingrowth induction catalysts such as bone morphogenic proteins growth factors e.g. PDGF VEGF and BMP 2 peptides antivirals antibiotics etc monofilament or multifilament structures sheets coatings membranes e.g. porous microporous resorbable etc foams e.g. open cell or close cell screw augmentation cranial reconstruction and or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments porous scaffolds are synthesized and used by a one shot foaming process allowing for time to manipulate and inject the polymer followed by rapid foaming and setting. Injectable embodiments can be advantageous because they can offer minimally invasive surgical techniques and or increase the capacity for customization of a scaffold at the point of care. Certain embodiments can be customized to an individual patient and type of injury.

The presently disclosed subject matter is further illustrated by the following specific but non limiting examples. Some examples are prophetic. Some examples may include compilations of data that are representative of data gathered at various times during the course of development and experimentation related to the presently disclosed subject matter.

This Example describes the synthesis and characterization of embodiments of the present PTK UR scaffolds. All data is reported as the mean and standard deviation. Statistical analysis was performed using single factor analysis of variance ANOVA and Tukey post hoc comparison tests with p values less than 0.05 considered statistically significant.

All chemicals were purchased from Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. USA except the following. 2 mercaptoethyl ether MEE glutaraldehyde and cobalt chloride were purchased from Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. and the tertiary amine catalyst TEGOAMIN33 was obtained from Goldschmidt Hopewell Va. . Glycolide and D L lactide were obtained from Polysciences Warrington Pa. . Coscat83 an organobismuth urethane catalyst was supplied by ChasChem Inc. Rutherford N.J. . Hexamethylene diisocyanate trimer HDIt Desmodur N3300A was received from Bayer Material Science Pittsburgh Pa. . Cell culture reagents including Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMEM fetal bovine serum FBS and penicillin streptomycin were supplied by Gibco Cell Culture Carlsbad Calif. . All materials were used as received unless otherwise indicated.

A condensation polymerization protocol was utilized to synthesize the PTK prepolymer Scheme 1 . Briefly p toluenesulphonic acid monohydrate PTSA was added to a tri necked boiling flask equipped with an attached addition funnel. The vessels were placed under vacuum for 15 minutes before being purged with nitrogen. The boiling flask was charged with anhydrous acetonitrile and batch specific amounts of 2 mercaptoethyl ether MEE x molar eq and 1 4 butanedithiol BDT 1 x molar eq where x 1 0.75 0.5 0.25 and 0 for the different synthesized PTKs. The addition funnel was also charged with anhydrous acetonitrile and 2 2 dimethoxypropane DMP 0.83 molar eq . Both the addition funnel and boiling flask s solutions were purged with flowing nitrogen for 30 min before submerging the boiling flask into an oil bath at 80 C. After 15 min of temperature equilibration the addition funnel stopcock was set so that the acetonitrile DMP solution was added drop wise into the continuously stirring boiling flask over a period of 16 h. Post synthesis the acetonitrile was removed by rotary evaporation and the resultant PTKs were isolated by precipitation into cold ethanol and dried under vacuum. The five synthesized copolymers with varying percent molar composition of MEE and BDT are each designated by its relative mol MEE.

To evaluate polymer compositions samples of the respective PTKs were dissolved in deuterated chloroform CDCl and analyzed with H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy NMR Bruker 400 MHz Spectrometer . H NMR chemical shifts were reported as values in ppm relative to the deuterated CDCl 7.26 . Multiplicities are reported as follows s singlet d doublet t triplet q quartet and m multiplet . The number of protons n for a given resonance is indicated as nH and is based on integration values. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.67 3.61 m 4H 2.83 t 4H 2.63 t 4H 1.72 t 4H 1.60 s 6H . H NMR spectra confirmed that the composition of the synthesized polymers closely matched the monomer ratios in the feed Error Reference source not found. and gel permeation chromatography GPC analysis showed that the polymers had Mof 1000 g molwith polydispersity index PDI values of 1.35 Error Reference source not found. .

The resulting dithiol terminated MEE PTK polymers were converted into diols to prevent disulfide bridge formation from the reactive thiols to generate telechelic end groups compatible with standard polyurethane synthesis and to provide PTK polyols amenable to direct comparison with polyesters used in PEUR scaffold formation. Briefly PTK dithiol polymers were transferred to a boiling flask placed under vacuum and then exposed to a nitrogen atmosphere. The flask was charged with dichloromethane DCM before adding a 10 molar excess of mercaptoethanol to the solution. This solution was stirred continuously at room temperature to reduce any disulfide bonds and recover the reactive thiol end groups. After 3 h of stirring the DCM was evaporated off under vacuum before restoring nitrogen to the vessel and the residue was washed three times in cold ethanol to remove residual 3 mercaptoethanol. The reduced PTK polymers were dissolved in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran THF before adding a 10 molar excess of cesium carbonate CsCO under nitrogen and stirring for 30 min at room temperature. A 5 molar excess of 2 bromoethanol was next added to the solution and stirred for 18 hours under nitrogen at room temperature. After mixing the solution was added to a separation funnel with an excess of deionized water to effectively separate the PTK solubilizing THF layer from the water soluble CsCOcatalyst. The hydroxyl functionalized PTKs were extracted in THF before removing the solvent by rotary evaporation and the polymer residues were precipitated three times in cold ethanol before vacuum drying for 24 h.

Hydroxyl functionalization was first confirmed by H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 2.74 t 4H . Molecular weights and polydispersities of the five synthesized PTK diols were analyzed by gel permeation chromatography GPC Agilent Technologies Dover Del. using a mobile phase of N N dimethylformamide DMF with 100 mM LiBr and were quantified using a calibration curve generated from poly ethylene glycol PEG standards 400 4000 g mol . PTK chain end conversions from homobifunctional thiol groups to hydroxyl groups was confirmed with attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy ATR FTIR Bruker Tensor 27 FTIR Billerica Mass. . Thiol terminated and hydroxyl terminated PTK polymers were placed in contact with a ZnSe ATR crystal to quantify absorbance at 2550 cmand 3400 cm which correspond to absorbance peaks of free thiol and free hydroxyl groups respectively. The hydroxyl OH numbers of the different PTK diols were determined by titration Metrohm 798 MPT Titrino according to ASTM E1899 08. Eq 1 was used to relate the molecular weight to the hydroxyl number of each titrated PTK 

The thiol absorbance peak at 2550 cmwas apparent in the thiol terminated parent PTKs but did not appear with the hydroxyl terminated polymers which generated a characteristic ATR FTIR hydroxyl peak at 3400 cm . OH numbers experimentally measured with titration were utilized to calculate a titration M Error Reference source not found. that was used to balance the hydroxyl isocyanate reaction used to form PTK URs. The experimental OH numbers trended higher than theoretical values.

PTK UR scaffolds were successfully synthesized from the PTK diols and hexamethylene diisocyanate trimer HDIt yielding porous mechanically robust 3D constructs as shown in . Specifically the PTK UR and PEUR control scaffolds were prepared using two component reactive liquid molding of a hexamethylene diisocyanate trimer HDIt and b a hardener component comprising the PTK diol 0.5 1.5 parts per hundred parts polyol pphp water 10.0 pphp TEGOAMIN33 catalyst 0.5 3.0 pphp sulfated castor oil stabilizer and 4.0 pphp calcium stearate pore opener. The makeup of the hardener components for the different respective PTK diols was individually optimized to yield scaffolds with mechanical integrity and an intact porous structure. The hardener component elements were first mixed for 30 s at 3300 revolutions per min rpm in a Hauschild DAC 150 FVZ K SpeedMixer FlackTek Inc. Landrum S.C. before adding the HDIt and mixing for an additional 30 s. This reactive liquid mixture was allowed to rise freely for 10 20 min for complete setting and hardening. The targeted index ratio of NCO to OH equivalents times 100 was 115 where the number of OH equivalents is calculated from the respective PTK s experimentally measured OH Number.

The PEUR scaffolds were formulated from a commercially available 900 g molpolyester triol a synthesized 1000 g molpolyester diol and a synthesized 1500 g molpolyester triol to serve as hydrolytically degradable controls. These scaffolds are designated 900t PEUR 1000d PEUR and 1500t PEUR respectively. The commercially available 900t PEUR represents a biological control that has been successfully used for in vivo applications while the 1000d PEUR and 1500t PEUR were synthesized for a more direct material comparison to the PTK URs because they yield PEUR scaffolds with similar crosslink densities to the PTK UR scaffolds. To synthesize the trifunctional polyol glycerol was vacuum dried for 48 hours at 80 C. and then added to a 100 mL three neck flask. caprolactone glycolide and D L lactide were added to the glycerol starter along with a stannous octoate catalyst. To obtain the bifunctional polyol vacuum dried 1 4 butane diol was utilized as the starter.

The core densities of PTK UR and PEUR scaffolds were determined by measuring the mass and volume of cylindrical porous scaffold core samples with the core porosities being subsequently calculated from these density values. The porous morphologies of the different PTK UR scaffolds were qualitatively assessed by scanning electron microscopy Hitachi S 4200 SEM Finchampstead UK . The amount of unreacted components sol fraction in the cross linked network was measured from the mass loss of dried scaffold cylinders 25 mm 12 mm previously incubated in DCM for 24 h. To measure the molecular weight between crosslinks M scaffold samples n 3 were weighed dry and then incubated in DCM for 24 h. After incubation samples were gently blotted to remove excess DCM and then the samples swollen mass was measured. These values along with the solvent parameters were used in the Flory Rhener equation to determine M. For measuring scaffold hydrophilicity PTK UR films of 100 50 and 0 MEE PTK diols were synthesized using an index of 105 and the gelling catalyst Coscat83 at 1000 ppm. After mixing the catalyst and PTK diol for 30 s at 3300 rpm HDIt was added and mixed for an additional 30 s. The mixtures were cast into Teflon compression molds and allowed to cure for 18 h at 60 C. The contact angle of water on these PTK UR films was measured using a Rame Hart Mountain Lakes N.J. Model A 100 contact angle goniometer. A 4 L water drop was added to the film surface and the contact angle was immediately measured. After 10 min an equilibrium contact angle was also measured due to the molecular surface reorganization which increased the hydrophilicity at the contact site.

The PTK UR and PEUR formulations yield scaffolds with similar sol fraction and porosity as seen in Error Reference source not found. The molecular weight between crosslinks M for 1000d and 1500t PEUR was statistically equal to all of the PTK UR scaffolds while the 900t PEURs had a significantly lower M p

The relative surface hydrophilicity of the 100 50 and 0 MEE PTK UR materials was assessed using contact angle measurements on PTK UR films. After allowing 10 min to reach an equilibrium value the contact angle values were 66 77 and 80 for the 100 50 and 0 MEE PTK UR films respectively. As expected scaffold contact angle was influenced by the composition of the PTK polyol and the contact angle was inversely correlated with the mol of the more hydrophilic MEE monomer in the PTK copolymer. These data suggest that the 100 MEE PTK UR is advantageous for cellular adhesion and tissue formation in vivo because relatively hydrophobic surfaces contact angle 76 preferentially adsorb hydrophobic serum proteins such as albumin over cellular adhesion proteins like fibronectin and vitronectin.

Thermal transitions were measured by a TA Instruments New Castle Del. Q200 DSC and Q800 DMA. For DSC analysis samples ranging in mass from 10 15 mg were heated from 80 C. to 200 C. at a rate of 10 C. min cooled to 80 C. at a rate of 20 C. min and heated a second time to 200 C. at a rate of 10 C. minAll transitions were obtained from the second heating run. For DMA analysis cylindrical samples 6 6 mm of foams were analyzed from 80 to 55 C. at a ramp rate of 1 C. min. Foams were compressed at a frequency of 1 Hz with 1 strain during the thermal treatment. Glass transitions were obtained at the peak of tan . See Table 3.

The scaffold Tvalues determined by DMA exceeded those measured by DSC by 30 50 C. as has been previously reported for similar 3D polyurethane materials. The thermomechanical properties of the PTK UR and PEUR scaffolds indicate that both materials are phase mixed since the 3D polyurethane scaffolds all possessed a Texceeding that of the polyol precursor soft segment.

The mechanical properties of the different PTK UR and PEUR scaffold formulations was measured in compression at 37 C. under wet conditions using dynamic mechanical analysis DMA Q800 DMA TA Instruments New Castle Del. . Cylindrical 6 6 mm scaffold samples were tested after incubation in phosphate buffered saline PBS for 7 days at 37 C. wet conditions . Using a preload force of 0.1 N samples were compressed along the longitudinal axis at a strain rate of 10 min until 60 compressive strain was achieved. The Young s modulus for each sample was calculated from the slope of the initial linear region of each respective stress strain curve after toe in.

The wet compressive moduli of the PTK UR samples ranged from 100 250 kPa and the PEUR moduli ranged from 20 100 kPa . Although the 1500t PEUR 1000d PEUR and PTK UR scaffolds had similar Mvalues all of the PTK UR formulations had significantly higher modulus values than the 1500t PEUR and 1000d PEUR materials. However there was no consistent trend between PTK UR scaffold composition and modulus. Due to its higher crosslink density the 900t PEUR achieved stiffness values closer to the PTK UR samples though even this formulation was significantly less stiff than the 100 and 0 MEE PTK UR materials. Because of the more closely matched mechanical properties and the established precedent for their use the 900t PEUR scaffolds were used as a control for comparison to PTK UR scaffolds in subsequent in vitro and in vivo studies.

Long term hydrolytic stability of PTK UR and PEUR scaffolds was determined by incubating 10 mg samples in PBS at 37 C. on a shaker and measuring the mass loss at each time point n 3 . Before beginning the experiment scaffolds were soaked in an excess of DCM for 24 h to remove any unreacted components before vacuum drying for 24 h. Scaffold samples were removed from the buffer at each time point rinsed in deionized water vacuum dried for 48 h and weighed. The buffer medium was not changed between time points. Short term oxidative degradation rates of PTK UR scaffolds were similarly assessed using an oxidative degradation medium that simulates in vivo oxidative degradation at an accelerated rate. This oxidative medium comprised 20 wt hydrogen peroxide HO in 0.1 M cobalt chloride CoCl with the HOand cobalt ion reacting to stimulate oxidative radical formation. As with the long term study triplicate samples were pre soaked in DCM for 24 h before vacuum drying and incubated at 37 C. in the oxidative medium on a shaker. At specified time points over 10 d samples were removed rinsed with deionized water vacuum dried and weighed. The oxidative medium was replaced every 3 days and the morphology of both PBS incubated and HO incubated scaffolds was qualitatively assessed with SEM.

The effect of radical concentration on PTK UR scaffold degradation kinetics was also explored. The original 20 HOin 0.1 M CoCldegradation medium was diluted ten and one hundred fold to yield a 2 HOin 0.01 M CoClsolution and a 0.2 HOin 0.001 M CoClsolution. These two diluted degradation media were used to incubate 100 50 and 0 MEE PTK UR scaffolds along with 900t PEUR control samples with material preparation steps and incubation conditions being the same as previously described.

The oxidative degradation medium comprising HOand CoCl which produces hydroxyl radicals destabilize the TK bond leading to chain scission and breakdown into the original constitutive monomers MEE and BDT and acetone. The hypothesized degradation mechanism is seen in Scheme 2 and it is predicted that these small byproducts will be rapidly cleared in an in vivo environment. Furthermore these thiolated monomers have been shown to cause limited in vitro cytotoxicity and a minimal host inflammatory response in vivo when incorporated into a similar polyurethane system. The isocyanate HDIt was utilized in these studies because it is stable allowing more specific study of the degradation behavior of the polyol component.

The PTK UR scaffolds were stable over a long term 25 week study in PBS at 37 C. while the 900t PEUR scaffolds underwent significant hydrolytic degradation over this time period . Conversely the PTK URs rapidly degraded under accelerated oxidative conditions 20 HOin 0.1 M CoCl as seen in . Furthermore there was a relationship between the PTK composition and degradation rate as the scaffolds with higher MEE content in the PTK polyol degraded faster . Ethers are stable in aqueous media but that oxidative radicals can degrade them in vitro and in vivo. Thus without being bound by theory or mechanism it is hypothesized that the faster ROS dependent degradation seen in both the 100 and 50 MEE PTK UR materials may result from a combination of oxidative degradation of both TKs and ethers while the 0 MEE PTK UR scaffolds are degraded solely by TK scission. These results indicate that scaffold degradation rates can be tuned by the composition of the PTK polyol. The degradation profiles of all PTK UR formulations in the 20 HOmedia are seen in . SEM images of PTK UR scaffolds after 10 days of incubation in oxidative media illustrated loss of the porous architecture and surface pitting while these morphological changes in scaffold architecture were not apparent following PTK UR scaffold incubation in PBS for 14 days .

To further elucidate the relationship between ROS concentration and the degradation rates of the different PTK UR scaffold formulations scaffold degradation was measured in oxidative degradation media comprising 20 2 and 0.2 HOcontaining 0.1 0.01 and 0.001 M CoCl respectively. The degradation rates of selected PTK UR scaffold formulations tested were dependent on the concentration of HO . The degradation behavior of the PTK UR scaffold formulations were fit to first order decay kinetics equation to create a mathematical model of scaffold degradation with respect to HOconcentration. The first order degradation model is given in Eq 2. 2 

In this equation Mis the scaffold mass remaining at time t Mis the initial scaffold mass and k is the degradation rate constant. Non linear regression was used to fit this modified first order degradation model to the experimentally determined degradation data. This method was used to determine the rate constant k for each scaffold s decay profile in the respective HOoxidative medium. The fitted degradation profiles are concurrently shown with the respective experimental data as dotted lines in . Agreement between the model and experimental data confirm that the PTK UR scaffolds degrade by first order kinetics with respect to ROS concentration. The degradation rate constants derived from the non linear regression fitting of the experimental data gathered in 20 HOmedia also illustrate the relationship between degradation rate and the MEE PTK polyol used in PTK UR scaffold fabrication. This trend is also seen in the PTK UR samples incubated in 2 HOmedia though to a lesser magnitude. The degradation rate constants were significantly higher for all PTK UR scaffolds than PEUR scaffolds in the 0.2 HOmedia but there was no trend between the different PTK UR scaffolds at this dose. Contrary to the PTK UR scaffolds the 900t PEUR samples incubated in these same oxidative media did not display HOdose dependent degradation . These collective data confirm that thioketal based polyols are selectively broken down by ROS and that their rate of degradation is first order with respect to the concentration of radical species in the local environment.

RAW 264.7 macrophages were cultured in in DMEM supplemented with 10 FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin until the cell population reached confluence. 100 and 0 MEE PTK UR scaffolds were cut into 6.5 1 mm discs sterilized by UV radiation for 1 h 30 min per side placed into 96 well plates and incubated with culture medium for 30 min. Macrophages were seeded onto the scaffolds at a density of 2.5 10cells scaffold. The cells were allowed to adhere to the scaffolds for 3 h at which point the old media were removed and the cells were treated with either fresh culture media or media containing 5 mg mLlipopolysaccharide LPS and 1000 U mLIFN to promote classical macrophage activation and enhanced ROS productions. Cells were incubated on the scaffolds for 3 d with fresh culture media being applied daily. After the 3 d incubation the scaffolds were fixed in 5 glutaraldehyde for 2 h followed by 2 osmium tetroxide for 1 h. These fixed scaffolds were dehydrated in ascending grades of ethanol before being vacuum dried and imaged with SEM to evaluate surface pitting. SEM imaging of scaffolds after three days illustrated surface pitting by activated macrophages while cell mediated remodeling of the scaffold surface was less apparent for the control cells indicating that physiologic concentrations of ROS can degrade PTK UR materials.

NIH 3T3 mouse fibroblasts stably transfected with a firefly luciferase reporter gene were cultured in DMEM supplemented with 10 FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin until the cell population reached confluence. 100 MEE PTK UR 0 MEE PTK UR and 900t PEUR scaffolds were cut into 6.5 1 mm discs sterilized by UV radiation for 1 h 30 min per side placed into a black walled 96 well plate and incubated with culture medium for 30 min. Fibroblasts were seeded at a density of 5.0 10cells scaffold on n 3 scaffolds and allowed to grow for 0 1 and 3 days in 200 L of culture media per well changed every two days . On the final day of seeding the day 0 cells were allowed to adhere for 2 h before culture media containing a luciferin substrate was added to all cell seeded scaffolds. After 10 min the scaffolds were imaged with an IVIS 100 Caliper Life Sciences Hopkinton Mass. luminescent imaging system with an exposure time of 2 min to quantify the luciferase based luminescent cell signal from each scaffold. All readings were normalized to day 0 luminescent signal values. Stably transfected NIH 3T3 mouse fibroblasts remained viable on 100 MEE PTK UR 0 MEE PTK UR and 900t PEUR scaffolds over 3 days of culture in vitro and none of the scaffold formulations displayed a significant difference in cell number over time or relative to each other. These data indicate that PTK UR scaffolds achieved cellular viability levels analogous to PEUR scaffolds that are cytocompatible and have been successfully utilized in vivo.

Also 100 MEE PTK UR and 900t PEUR scaffolds were fabricated as previously described. 2.5 10 mm discs were cut and sterilized with ethylene oxide prior to implantation into ventral subcutaneous sites in adult male Sprague Dawley rats. Scaffolds were excised at day 21 to evaluate new tissue formation in the implants. The tissues were fixed in formalin for 48 h followed by incubation in 70 ethanol for 48 h embedding in paraffin sectioning and staining with hematoxylin eosin. Histological sections were evaluated with Metamorph Imaging Software Molecular Devices Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. to evaluate wound size and new tissue growth. All surgical procedures were reviewed and approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. The PTK UR scaffolds supported robust cell infiltration and granulation tissue formation while eliciting a minimal inflammatory response .

Although all implanted scaffold samples were cut to the same thickness pre implantation 2.5 mm PTK UR scaffolds extracted 21 days after subcutaneous implantation had better maintenance of their original thickness relative to the PEUR scaffolds which suffered from partial collapse of the pore structure following implantation in vivo . Though both formulations support new tissue growth into the scaffold interior the PTK UR samples were more mechanically resilient and more effectively stented the wound. This effect can be potentially attributed to both the significantly higher moduli of the 100 MEE PTK UR scaffolds relative to the 900t PEUR formulation and also to the 900t PEUR Tvalue 34.4 C. which is close to body temperature Table 3 . This relatively high Tis predicted to make this PEUR scaffold less mechanically resilient at body temperature because it will be in its glassy transition viscoelastic region. The stenting effect seen in these PTK UR scaffolds is advantageous for maximizing cell infiltration and new tissue formation and could potentially decrease scarring in clinical applications.

This Examples describes additional studied conducted on Sprague Dawley rats using the scaffolds. described in Example 1. Unless stated otherwise the materials and method described in Example 1 were implemented in this Example as well.

Briefly pre formed porous 100 and 0 MEE PTK UR scaffolds along with PEUR control scaffolds were implanted into ventral subcutaneous sites in male Sprague Dawley rats for 7 21 and 35 days. As shown in the 100 MEE PTK UR and PEUR scaffolds demonstrated tissue in growth into the scaffold interiors by day 21 and both the 100 MEE PTK UR and PEUR scaffolds significantly degraded over the 35 day time frame. However the PTK UR scaffold formulations appeared to be more resilient materials in vivo as the PEUR scaffolds were significantly compressed from their initial thickness. None of the tested scaffolds led to an excessive immune response.

To test the ability of the scaffolds to treat tissue wounds in diabetic subjects adult male Sprague Dawley rats were injected with streptozotocin 45 mg kg to induce diabetes. One week post injection the rats blood glucose was measured and compared to previously measured baseline glucose levels to confirm diabetes development. The 100 MEE PTK UR formulation was chosen as the exemplary PTK UR for implantation. Therefore the diabetic rats were implanted with 100 MEE PTK UR and PEUR scaffolds and sacrificed at days 7 21 35 and 49 post scaffold implantation.

As diabetic rodent models have been shown to produce higher levels of reactive oxygen species ROS given the previous results it was predicted that the PTK UR scaffolds would degrade faster in the diabetic animals. Indeed the PTK UR scaffolds were significantly more degraded in the diabetic animals over all time points when compared to samples implanted in non diabetic rats .

Throughout this application various publications are referenced. All such references including the follow listed references are incorporated herein by reference.

