---

title: Systems and methods for combining triaxial geophone data for localizing nearby transient seismic sources
abstract: In one embodiment, a method of processing seismic data using a single triaxial geophone is disclosed, where the method comprises acts of calibrating the single triaxial geophone sensor to determine a position and an orientation relative to a surrounding environment, configuring the single triaxial geophone sensor to receive seismic data from the surrounding environment along three orthogonal axes, measuring, with the single triaxial geophone sensor, a plurality of time series of seismic data from the surrounding environment for the three orthogonal axes, storing, with a computer system coupled to the single triaxial geophone sensor, the time series of seismic data from the surrounding environment for the three orthogonal axes, and processing, with the computer system, the time series of seismic data to identify a plurality of seismic waves of different polarizations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09354339&OS=09354339&RS=09354339
owner: Raytheon BBN Technologies Corp.
number: 09354339
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131211
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract Number W912HZ 10 C 0120 awarded by the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers Research and Development Center. The U.S. government has certain rights in this invention.

The collection and processing of seismic data for the purpose of identifying the source of seismic activity has traditionally involved the use of arrays of sensors capable of measuring seismic activity over a distributed area. Upon collecting seismic data in multiple geographically distinct locations various types of array signal processing techniques have been utilized to extract information about seismic wave properties which can help determine the likely location of the seismic source. From a deployment and maintenance perspective the use of a distributed sensor network for the measurement of seismic data often requires the placement calibration and synchronization of each sensor in the distributed network. From a signal processing perspective the use of data collected from a distributed sensor network requires taking into account that properties of the collected seismic signals associated with a single seismic source such as wave polarization phase and frequency content typically vary between sensors in the distributed network.

Existing techniques for the processing of seismic signal data typically utilize band passed time domain approaches when extracting information about seismic wave polarization. The use of strictly time domain approaches for extracting seismic wave polarization typically works well for processing signals received from distant seismic sources where seismic waves of different polarizations which normally travel at different speeds can separate sufficiently in time prior to arrival at a particular seismic sensor in the network. When attempts are made to extract wave polarization information from the temporal signals of waves emitted from nearby sources having different polarizations that have not separated sufficiently in time these polarization extraction methods normally become ill posed problems. Attempts to determine the direction and location of a seismic source using these methods typically return poor estimates. Existing techniques for processing seismic signal data often use of frequency dependent time windows such as using a larger time window for lower frequency signals which suffer from inadequate separation of wave polarization components for nearby seismic sources.

Given the limitations of previous techniques for collecting and processing seismic signal data there exists a need for a system that provides for simpler quicker deployment and configuration of sensor equipment when collecting seismic signal data as well as robust methods for isolating signals of differing polarizations from nearby seismic sources. These methods are needed especially when travel time between source and sensor might not allow separate detection of multiple seismic waves having different polarizations in different time windows.

Aspects and embodiments are directed to systems and methods for the collection and processing of seismic data utilizing a single triaxial geophone sensor as well as techniques for digitally transforming and processing the received seismic signal data in a time frequency representation enabling separation of signals for polarized seismic waves that emanate from nearby seismic sources. In various configurations of the single triaxial geophone sensor the received seismic signal data that is measured can include velocity data acceleration data and displacement data. Unlike fixed in place arrays of sensors often used for measuring long range seismic signals such as earthquakes various systems and methods described below for measuring nearby subterranean seismic signals use only a single isolated triaxial geophone sensor. Use of a single sensor provides agility in deployment and configuration as well as rapid localization capability for detecting the location of a nearby seismic source. A nearby seismic source is one whose distance is at most a few hundred meters from the seismic sensor unlike a seismic wave emanating from an earthquake whose source is likely tens hundreds or even thousands of kilometers from the corresponding seismic sensor. Rapid deployment and fine time frequency resolution capability can be extremely useful when operating in an environment where time is of the essence for detecting the source of a seismic signal such as searching for individuals trapped in a collapsed mine or in an avalanche. Various aspects and embodiments are directed to methods for processing received seismic signal data from a nearby source to determine the location of that seismic source based on identified polarization waves.

According to some embodiments a method of processing seismic data using a single triaxial geophone comprises calibrating the single triaxial geophone sensor to determine a position and an orientation relative to a surrounding environment configuring the single triaxial geophone sensor to receive seismic data from the surrounding environment along three orthogonal axes measuring with the single triaxial geophone sensor a plurality of time series of seismic data from the surrounding environment for the three orthogonal axes storing with a computer system coupled to the single triaxial geophone sensor the time series of seismic data from the surrounding environment for the three orthogonal axes and processing with the computer system the time series of seismic data to identify a plurality of seismic waves of different polarizations. In some embodiments the seismic data includes velocity data. In various embodiments the seismic data includes acceleration data. In further embodiments the seismic data includes displacement data.

In some embodiments the processing of the time series of seismic data comprises determining three distinct analytic representations of the plurality of time series of seismic data from the surrounding environment for the three orthogonal axes. The determining of a plurality of analytic representations of the time series of seismic data comprises performing a plurality of Hilbert transformations on the time series of seismic data for the three orthogonal axes. The processing of seismic data comprises transforming the plurality of analytic representations of the time series of seismic data for the three orthogonal axes into a corresponding plurality of time frequency representations.

In various embodiments the transforming of the time series of seismic data into the plurality of time frequency representations comprises performing a plurality of S transformations on the plurality of analytic representations of the time series of seismic data. In some embodiments processing of the seismic data further comprises applying a first fixed width temporal window to the plurality of time frequency representations to extract a first plurality of time frequency samples for the three orthogonal axes. In further embodiments the processing of the seismic data further comprises merging the first plurality of time frequency samples for the three orthogonal axes into a first matrix. In particular embodiments the processing of the seismic data further comprises calculating a first singular value decomposition of the first matrix containing the first plurality of time frequency samples for the three orthogonal axes to determine a first plurality of singular values and a first plurality of singular vectors associated with the first fixed width temporal window. In various embodiments the processing of the seismic data further comprises ordering the first plurality of singular values based on numerical value determining a first signal to noise ratio indicative of a seismic source and determining a first extent of signal polarization present in the seismic data.

In some embodiments the determining an extent of signal polarization present in the seismic data further comprises calculating a first metric using the ordered first plurality of singular values to be greater than a threshold to identify a linearly polarized p wave. In various embodiments the determining of an extent of signal polarization present in the seismic data further comprises calculating a second metric using the ordered first plurality of singular values to be greater than a threshold to identify an s wave.

In various embodiments the processing of the seismic data further comprises applying a second fixed width temporal window time shifted from the first fixed width temporal window to the plurality of time frequency representations to extract a second plurality of time frequency samples for the three orthogonal axes merging the second plurality of time frequency samples for the three orthogonal axes into a second matrix calculating a second singular value decomposition of the second matrix containing the second plurality of time frequency samples for the three orthogonal axes to determine a second plurality of singular values and a second plurality of singular vectors associated with the second fixed width temporal window ordering the second plurality of singular values based on numerical value determining a second signal to noise ratio indicative of the seismic source determining a second extent of signal polarization present in the seismic data and calculating a second metric using the ordered second plurality of singular values to identify the linearly polarized p wave. In some embodiments the processing of the seismic data further comprises calculating the second metric using the ordered second plurality of singular values to identify the presence of the s wave.

In further embodiments the processing of the seismic data further comprises repeating the previous actions of applying a second fixed width temporal window time shifted from the first fixed width temporal window to the plurality of time frequency representations to extract a second plurality of time frequency samples for the three orthogonal axes merging the second plurality of time frequency samples for the three orthogonal axes into a second matrix calculating a second singular value decomposition of the second matrix containing the second plurality of time frequency samples for the three orthogonal axes to determine a second plurality of singular values and a second plurality of singular vectors associated with the second fixed width temporal window ordering the second plurality of singular values based on numerical value determining a second signal to noise ratio indicative of the seismic source determining a second extent of signal polarization present in the seismic data and calculating a second metric using the ordered second plurality of singular values to identify the linearly polarized p wave. For these embodiments the actions are repeated for a plurality of fixed width temporal windows that are mutually time shifted for extracting separate distinct pluralities of time frequency samples to cover the temporal range of the plurality of time frequency representations and to determine separate pluralities of singular values and singular vectors associated with each of the separate pluralities of mutually time shifted time frequency samples.

In some embodiments the processing of the seismic data further comprises repeating the actions of calculating the second metric using the ordered second plurality of singular values to identify the presence of the s wave for the plurality of fixed width temporal windows that are mutually time shifted to identify the presence of the s wave in each of the plurality of fixed width temporal windows.

In various embodiments the processing of the seismic data further comprises merging the first plurality of singular values second plurality of singular values and separate pluralities of singular values associated with each of the separate distinct pluralities of mutually time shifted time frequency samples and determining an appropriate fixed width time window containing a maxima of the plurality of singular values associated with each of the three orthogonal axes wherein the temporal location of the maxima indicate the appropriate time window to extract polarization information. In some embodiments the processing of the seismic data further comprises processing a plurality of singular vectors associated with the appropriate fixed width time window containing the maxima of the plurality of singular values and estimating an azimuth and a declination of a seismic source relative to the single triaxial geophone sensor. In various embodiments the processing of the seismic data further comprises determining a first time onset of the linearly polarized p wave determining a second time onset of the s wave estimating a first local propagation speed of the linearly polarized p wave estimating a second local propagation speed of the s wave calculating a time difference of arrival of the p wave and the s wave and estimating the location of a seismic source relative to the single triaxial geophone sensor.

Still other aspects embodiments and advantages of these exemplary aspects and embodiments are discussed in detail below. Embodiments disclosed herein may be combined with other embodiments in any manner consistent with at least one of the principles disclosed herein and references to an embodiment some embodiments an alternate embodiment various embodiments one embodiment or the like are not necessarily mutually exclusive and are intended to indicate that a particular feature structure or characteristic described may be included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of such terms herein are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Seismic energy produced by a subterranean source often propagates away from that source as a set of waves having differing polarizations. Examples of seismic waves can include linearly polarized pressure waves also known as primary or P waves as well as shear waves also known as secondary or S waves which can have an arbitrary polarization. Certain aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are directed to an apparatus and processes for measuring seismic wave energy signals using a single triaxial geophone sensor as well as digitally processing the measured signals to identify and isolate the seismic waves of differing polarizations emanating from potentially multiple nearby sources within a time window of operation of the triaxial geophone sensor. As discussed in more detail below through configuration of the triaxial geophone sensor and an appropriate choice of digital signal processing techniques a single sensor can be utilized to identify and locate nearby seismic sources even when the polarization waves received by the triaxial geophone sensor are received in close temporal proximity or have similar frequencies. Features of the detected and separated waves can then be used to estimate the range bearing and elevation to the seismic source.

It is to be appreciated that embodiments of the methods and apparatuses discussed herein are not limited in application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The methods and apparatuses are capable of implementation in other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. Examples of specific implementations are provided herein for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to be limiting. Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use herein of including comprising having containing involving and variations thereof is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items. References to or may be construed as inclusive so that any terms described using or may indicate any of a single more than one and all of the described terms. Any references to front and back left and right top and bottom upper and lower and vertical and horizontal are intended for convenience of description not to limit the present systems and methods or their components to any one positional or spatial orientation.

Certain embodiments disclosed herein implement a seismic wave sensing and processing system using a single triaxial geophone sensor coupled to one or more digital signal processing systems such as the computer system described below with respect to . According to these embodiments a single triaxial geophone sensor includes capability for receiving and detecting seismic wave signals along three orthogonal axes during a defined temporal window producing three distinct time series of seismic wave data. In various embodiments the triaxial geophone is capable of measuring seismic activity associate with seismic wave velocity acceleration or ground displacement. The measured seismic data can be represented as v t v t and v t for each of the three orthogonal directions x y and z for which the triaxial geophone sensor measures seismic activity.

Referring to a system includes a single triaxial geophone sensor that is coupled to the subsurface environment . In various embodiments the single triaxial geophone sensor is capable of detecting polarized seismic waves produced by a seismic source . In some embodiments the seismic source can be a nearby subterranean source located within a subsurface environment comprised of earth. In other embodiments the seismic source can be a source that is located above ground but under a separate material such as a snow pack present in the aftermath of an avalanche. In various embodiments the velocity time series seismic wave signals detected by the triaxial geophone sensor can be communicated to a computer system where they can be digitally processed. The methods by which these velocity time series seismic wave signals can be digitally processed is described in more detail below.

An example process for the overall operation of the triaxial geophone sensor and computer system capable of digital signal processing is depicted in . The process begins with act . In act the position and orientation of the triaxial geophone sensor are calibrated in relation to the subsurface environment . By orienting the triaxial geophone sensor appropriately the three orthogonal axes of the sensor x y and z may be associated with three orthogonal axes of the subsurface environment often referred to as the northing easting and z directions. The northing and easting directions of the subsurface environment may correspond to the north and east directions of the Earth and the z direction of the subsurface environment can correspond to the depth direction of the subsurface environment . In act the triaxial geophone sensor may be configured to receive polarized seismic waves . In act the triaxial geophone sensor may measure received seismic signals over a defined time window. In some embodiments the time window over which received seismic signals are measured can be an open ended on going measurement window. In various embodiments the triaxial geophone sensor can be an analog sensor that continuously measures any received seismic signals. In a preferred embodiment the triaxial geophone sensor is a digital sensor that samples the received seismic signal at a fixed sample rate. For example the fixed sample rate of the seismic sensor may be 2 4 kHz. In various embodiments the sample rate of the triaxial geophone sensor can be configured based on the properties of seismic signal expected to be received. In act the triaxial geophone sensor communicates the measured seismic signals to a computer system where they can be stored either in temporary memory such as RAM or flash memory or written to more permanent storage such as a hard disk drive. In act the time series of seismic velocity data can be digitally transformed and processed by the computer system to detect the onset of various seismic waves within the seismic wave velocity data and isolate signals for seismic waves of various polarizations within the data. The techniques used for transforming and processing the seismic velocity data are discussed in more detail below. In act upon completing the transformation and processing of the seismic velocity data to identify the seismic waves of various polarizations within the time series data the location and identity of various seismic sources within the received signals can be determined. Process ends with act .

As discussed above with regard to act shown in various embodiments provide methods for processing the time series of seismic velocity data received by the single triaxial geophone sensor and stored on the computer system . illustrates one such process that includes acts of computing complex analytic representations of the set of time series of seismic velocity data transforming the set of analytic time series of seismic velocity data into a set of time frequency representations sampling the set of time frequency representations into smaller time windows merging the samples of the set of time frequency representations within unique time windows performing singular value decomposition on the merged samples of time frequency representations within unique time windows merging the singular value data obtained from multiple time sample windows determining the time frequency window containing maxima of singular value data and estimating properties of the polarized seismic waves to use in locating the source of the seismic waves. Process begins with act . In act the sampled time series of seismic velocity data received by the triaxial geophone sensor are transformed into corresponding complex analytic representations. In some embodiments a Hilbert transformation a well known mathematical transformation used in field of signal processing is used to create the complex analytic representations of the time series of seismic velocity data from the initial real valued time series signals. No assumption regarding the presence or non presence of a seismic wave is necessary when performing this complex analytic transformation as the data processing performed in subsequent steps are used to detect the presence of polarized seismic waves from a nearby source. The complex analytic representation of the seismic velocity data can be represented as in the following set of expressions for each of the three orthogonal axes 1 2 3 where H h t is the Hilbert transformation of the time series function h t . By representing the real time series data in a complex analytic form the polarization of an embedded wave can be measured from any point in the recorded seismograms whereas directly using the real time series signals would require an average value to be determined over a portion of a wavelength.

In act the complex analytic representations of the time series of velocity data are transformed into corresponding time frequency representations. A time frequency representation of the seismic velocity data describes the measured velocity signals as two dimensional functions of time and frequency and allows for direct observation of the onset time of seismic waves of differing frequencies even when those frequencies overlap in time. In some embodiments the act of transforming the complex analytic seismic velocity data into a corresponding time frequency representation is performed through the use of an S transform as known as a Stockwell transform. The S transform is a known transformation technique utilized within the geophysical signal processing community which can be derived as an altered form of the short time Fourier transformation STFT . The STFT can be represented as follows STFT 4 where and f represent the time of spectral localization and Fourier frequency respectively and g t represents a windowing function. The S transformation can be derived from the STFT by replacing the window function g t with a Gaussian function as follows 

When utilizing an S transform to create a time frequency representation of the complex analytic seismic velocity data the created representation can maintain globally referenced phase information of the seismic waves as opposed to more traditional continuous wavelet transform CWT methods that only maintain phase information locally. The ability to maintain global absolute phase reference information within the time frequency representation can be very important for performing accurate pointing direction estimation to the source.

In act the time frequency representations of seismic velocity data for the three orthogonal directions are partitioned into discrete windowed time slices. In some embodiments the size of the window t may be on the order of 5 samples for samples rates less than 2 kHz. The use of such small time windows is feasible for later processing steps due to the global absolute phase referencing inherent in the S transform of the complex analytic time series.

In act the samples of a particular sample time window and frequency value of the time frequency representation for the time series of the three orthogonal directions are merged into a single matrix M of size 3 rows by size t columns . Each row of M corresponds to the x y and z slices of the appropriately indexed time frequency plane. Once the merged matrix M is created for a particular time window slice and frequency value the singular value decomposition of M is calculated yielding three singular values and corresponding complex singular vectors. The singular values represent the lengths of a polarization ellipsoid describing the overall seismic wave polarization and corresponding complex singular vectors represent the orientation of the polarization ellipsoid. These singular values and singular vectors can be utilized at a later step to identify the time onset and location of a seismic wave source. The calculation of these singular values and singular vectors are repeated for each time window and frequency combination of the time frequency representation.

In act the singular value data and singular vector data can be merged for each of the ordered singular values and corresponding singular vectors across all of the time window and frequency samples. Upon merging the singular value and singular vector data the singular values can be then be used in calculating a signal to noise ratio to determine the presence of a relevant seismic source signal and also the extent of signal polarization. In some embodiments for nearby underground seismic sources isolation of the p wave at each time window and frequency combination can be determined by calculating the signal to noise ratio against a threshold value as follows 

In act the time frequency locations of the singular values that exceed a pre defined threshold are examined to determine the time frequency location of the singular value maxima. These maxima locations determine the singular values and singular vectors to be utilized in the following step to estimate relevant properties of the seismic source.

In act the singular values and singular vectors associated with the previously determined maxima singular values are processed to estimate various polarization parameters such as the linearity or ellipticity of the different seismic waves the time difference of arrival between various seismic waves and seismic source localization properties such as the azimuth and declination of the source of p waves with respect to the triaxial geophone sensor orientation.

As described in the paper Complex Polarization Analysis of Particle Motion by John E. Vidale which utilizes eigenvalue decomposition and analysis instead of singular value decomposition and analysis but whose treatment of eigenvalues is otherwise relevant to the usage of singular values discussed below and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety in some embodiments a singular vector x0 y0 z0 associated with the largest singular value can be used to determine the degree of ellipticity of the seismic wave. The singular vector can be normalized to have a length of 1 and then by rotating this singular vector from 0 to 180 in the complex plane the rotation that results in the largest real component can be determined. The length of the real component of the singular vector can be expressed as follows 

Having calculated the desired polarization parameters and source location information related to the detected seismic waves process ends with act .

The following examples illustrate application of the above described processes and methods to some exemplary data sets that were measured experimentally. An example environment in which seismic velocity data was collected is depicted in . A source position is mapped in relation to a number of triaxial geophone sensors including sensors and corresponding to the data shown in described below. The location of the source and the sensors are plotted on axes and on a scale of roughly 50 meters between grid lines. In the example shown in the distance between the source position and the two triaxial geophone sensors and is approximately 110 meters. In this example the axes and correspond to the easting and northing directions respectively.

Similarly represents a map of both an ideal declination localization vector between source and sensor as well as estimated declination localization vectors associated with the singular value maxima respectively. In this example the axes and correspond to the easting and z directions respectively.

Similarly represents a map of both an ideal declination localization vector between source and sensor as well as estimated declination localization vectors associated with the singular value maxima respectively. In this example the axes and correspond to the easting and z directions respectively.

The examples and data presented above show that the systems and processes disclosed can be utilized to successfully isolate separate polarizations of seismic wave using a single triaxial geophone sensor in order to determine a location of a nearby seismic source.

Various aspects and functions described herein may be implemented as specialized hardware or software components executing in one or more computer systems. There are many examples of computer systems that are currently in use. These examples include among others network appliances personal computers workstations mainframes networked clients servers media servers application servers database servers and web servers. Other examples of computer systems may include mobile computing devices such as cellular phones and personal digital assistants and network equipment such as load balancers routers and switches. Further aspects may be located on a single computer system or may be distributed among a plurality of computer systems connected to one or more communications networks.

For example various aspects and functions may be distributed among one or more computer systems configured to provide a service to one or more client computers or to perform an overall task as part of a distributed system. Additionally aspects may be performed on a client server or multi tier system that includes components distributed among one or more server systems that perform various functions. Consequently examples are not limited to executing on any particular system or group of systems.

Further aspects and functions may be implemented in software hardware or firmware or any combination thereof. Thus aspects and functions may be implemented within methods acts systems system elements and components using a variety of hardware and software configurations and examples are not limited to any particular distributed architecture network or communication protocol.

Referring to there is illustrated a block diagram of a distributed computer system in which various aspects and functions are practiced. As shown the distributed computer system includes one more computer systems that exchange information. More specifically the distributed computer system includes computer systems and . As shown the computer systems and are interconnected by and may exchange data through a communication network . The network may include any communication network through which computer systems may exchange data. To exchange data using the network the computer systems and and the network may use various methods protocols and standards including among others Fibre Channel Token Ring Ethernet Wireless Ethernet Bluetooth IP IPV6 TCP IP UDP DTN HTTP FTP SNMP SMS MMS SS7 JSON SOAP CORBA REST and Web Services. To ensure data transfer is secure the computer systems and may transmit data via the network using a variety of security measures including for example TLS SSL or VPN. While the distributed computer system illustrates three networked computer systems the distributed computer system is not so limited and may include any number of computer systems and computing devices networked using any medium and communication protocol.

As illustrated in the computer system includes a processor a memory a bus an interface and data storage . To implement at least some of the aspects functions and processes disclosed herein the processor performs a series of instructions that result in manipulated data. The processor may be any type of processor multiprocessor or controller. Some exemplary processors include commercially available processors such as an Intel Xeon Itanium Core Celeron or Pentium processor an AMD Opteron processor a Sun UltraSPARC ARM processor or IBM Power5 processor and an IBM mainframe chip. The processor is connected to other system components including one or more memory devices by the bus . The memory stores programs and data during operation of the computer system . Thus the memory may be a relatively high performance volatile random access memory such as a dynamic random access memory DRAM or static memory SRAM . However the memory may include any device for storing data such as a disk drive or other nonvolatile storage device. Various examples may organize the memory into particularized and in some cases unique structures to perform the functions disclosed herein. These data structures may be sized and organized to store values for particular data and types of data.

Components of the computer system are coupled by an interconnection element such as the bus . The bus may include one or more physical busses for example busses between components that are integrated within a same machine but may include any communication coupling between system elements including specialized or standard computing bus technologies such as IDE SCSI PCI and InfiniBand. The bus enables communications such as data and instructions to be exchanged between system components of the computer system .

The computer system also includes one or more interface devices such as input devices output devices and combination input output devices. Interface devices may receive input or provide output. More particularly output devices may render information for external presentation. Input devices may accept information from external sources. Examples of interface devices include keyboards mouse devices trackballs microphones touch screens printing devices display screens speakers network interface cards etc. Interface devices allow the computer system to exchange information and to communicate with external entities such as users and other systems.

The data storage includes a computer readable and writeable nonvolatile or non transitory data storage medium in which instructions are stored that define a program or other object that is executed by the processor . The data storage also may include information that is recorded on or in the medium and that is processed by the processor during execution of the program. More specifically the information may be stored in one or more data structures specifically configured to conserve storage space or increase data exchange performance. The instructions may be persistently stored as encoded signals and the instructions may cause the processor to perform any of the functions described herein. The medium may for example be optical disk magnetic disk or flash memory among others. In operation the processor or some other controller causes data to be read from the nonvolatile recording medium into another memory such as the memory that allows for faster access to the information by the processor than does the storage medium included in the data storage . The memory may be located in the data storage or in the memory however the processor manipulates the data within the memory and then copies the data to the storage medium associated with the data storage after processing is completed. A variety of components may manage data movement between the storage medium and other memory elements and examples are not limited to particular data management components. Further examples are not limited to a particular memory system or data storage system.

Although the computer system is shown by way of example as one type of computer system upon which various aspects and functions may be practiced aspects and functions are not limited to being implemented on the computer system as shown in . Various aspects and functions may be practiced on one or more computers having a different architectures or components than that shown in . For instance the computer system may include specially programmed special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC tailored to perform a particular operation disclosed herein. While another example may perform the same function using a grid of several general purpose computing devices running MAC OS System X with Motorola PowerPC processors and several specialized computing devices running proprietary hardware and operating systems.

The computer system may be a computer system including an operating system that manages at least a portion of the hardware elements included in the computer system . In some examples a processor or controller such as the processor executes an operating system. Examples of a particular operating system that may be executed include a Windows based operating system such as Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows ME Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 Windows 8 or Windows RT operating systems available from the Microsoft Corporation a MAC OS System X or iOS operating system available from Apple Computer one of many Linux based operating system distributions for example the Enterprise Linux operating system available from Red Hat Inc. or Android operating system from Google Inc. a Solaris operating system available from Oracle Corporation or a UNIX operating systems available from various sources. Many other operating systems may be used and examples are not limited to any particular operating system.

The processor and operating system together define a computer platform for which application programs in high level programming languages are written. These component applications may be executable intermediate bytecode or interpreted code which communicates over a communication network for example the Internet using a communication protocol for example TCP IP. Similarly aspects may be implemented using an object oriented programming language such as .Net SmallTalk Java C Ada or C C Sharp . Other object oriented programming languages may also be used.

Alternatively functional scripting or logical programming languages may be used. Additionally various aspects and functions may be implemented in a non programmed environment for example documents created in HTML XML or other format that when viewed in a window of a browser program can render aspects of a graphical user interface or perform other functions. Further various examples may be implemented as programmed or non programmed elements or any combination thereof. For example a web page may be implemented using HTML while a data object called from within the web page may be written in C . Thus the examples are not limited to a specific programming language and any suitable programming language could be used. Accordingly the functional components disclosed herein may include a wide variety of elements e.g. specialized hardware executable code data structures or objects that are configured to perform the functions described herein.

In some examples the components disclosed herein may read parameters that affect the functions performed by the components. These parameters may be physically stored in any form of suitable memory including volatile memory such as RAM or nonvolatile memory such as a magnetic hard drive . In addition the parameters may be logically stored in a propriety data structure such as a database or file defined by a user mode application or in a commonly shared data structure such as an application registry that is defined by an operating system . In addition some examples provide for both system and user interfaces that allow external entities to modify the parameters and thereby configure the behavior of the components.

Having described above several aspects of at least one embodiment it is to be appreciated various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only and the scope of the invention should be determined from proper construction of the appended claims and their equivalents.

