---

title: Pyrrolo[3,2-c]pyridine tropomyosin-related kinase inhibitors
abstract: 

and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, wherein the substituents are as described herein, and their use in medicine, in particular as Trk antagonists.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09163021&OS=09163021&RS=09163021
owner: Pfizer Limited
number: 09163021
owner_city: Sandwich, Kent
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20130926
---
This application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT IB2013 058895 filed on Sep. 26 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 709 497 filed on Oct. 4 2012 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The invention described herein relates to certain pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine compounds and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such compounds. The invention also relates to the processes for the preparation of the compounds compositions containing the compounds and the uses of such compounds and salts in treating diseases or conditions associated with tropomyosin related kinase Trk activity. More specifically the invention relates to the compounds and their salts useful as inhibitors of Trk.

Tropomyosin related kinases Trks are a family of receptor tyrosine kinases activated by neurotrophins. Trks play important roles in pain sensation as well as tumour cell growth and survival signaling. Thus inhibitors of Trk receptor kinases might provide targeted treatments for conditions such as pain and cancer. Recent developments in this field have been reviewed by Wang et al in Expert Opin. Ther. Patents 2009 19 3 305 319 and an extract is reproduced below.

As one of the largest family of proteins encoded by the human genome protein kinases are the central regulators of signal transduction as well as control of various complex cell processes. Receptor tyrosine kinases RTKs are a subfamily of protein kinases up to 100 members bound to the cell membrane that specifically act on the tyrosine residues of proteins. One small group within this subfamily is the Trk kinases with three highly homologous isoforms TrkA TrkB and TrkC. All three isoforms are activated by high affinity growth factors named neurotrophins NT i nerve growth factor NGF which activates TrkA ii brain derived neurotrophic factor BDNF and NT 4 5 which activate TrkB and iii NT 3 which activates TrkC. The binding of neurotrophins to the extracellular domain of Trks causes the Trk kinase to autophosphorylate at several intracellular tyrosine sites and triggers downstream signal transduction pathways. Trks and neurotrophins are well known for their effects on neuronal growth and survival.

Originally isolated from neuronal tissues Trks were thought to mainly affect the maintenance and survival of neuronal cells. However in the past 20 years increasing evidence has suggested that Trks play key roles in malignant transformation chemotaxis metastasis and survival signaling in human tumors. The association between Trks and cancer focused on prostate cancer in earlier years and the topic has been reviewed. For example it was reported that malignant prostate epithelial cells secrete a series of neurotrophins and at least one Trks. In pancreatic cancer it was proposed that paracrine and or autocrine neurotrophin Trk interactions may influence the invasive behavior of the cancer. TrkB was also reported to be overexpressed in metastatic human pancreatic cancer cells. Recently there have been a number of new findings in other cancer settings. For example a translocation leads to expression of a fusion protein derived from the N terminus of the ETV6 transcription factor and the C terminal kinase domain of TrkC. The resulting ETV6 TrkC fusions are oncogenic in vitro and appear causative in secretory breast carcinoma and some acute myelogenous leukemias AML . Constitutively active TrkA fusions occurred in a subset of papillary thyroid cancers and colon carcinomas. In neuroblastoma TrkB expression was reported to be a strong predictor of aggressive tumor growth and poor prognosis and TrkB overexpression was also associated with increased resistance to chemotherapy in neuroblastoma tumor cells in vitro. One report showed that a novel splice variant of TrkA called TrkAIII signaled in the absence of neurotrophins through the inositol phosphate AKT pathway in a subset of neuroblastoma. Also mutational analysis of the tyrosine kinome revealed that Trk mutations occurred in colorectal and lung cancers. In summary Trks have been linked to a variety of human cancers and discovering a Trk inhibitor and testing it clinically might provide further insight to the biological and medical hypothesis of treating cancer with targeted therapies.

Besides the newly developed association with cancer Trks are also being recognized as an important mediator of pain sensation. Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis CIPA is a disorder of the peripheral nerves and normally innervated sweat glands that prevents the patient from either being able to adequately perceive painful stimuli or to sweat. TrkA defects have been shown to cause CIPA in various ethnic groups.

Currently non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs and opiates have low efficacy and or side effects e.g. gastrointestinal renal and psychotropic side effects respectively against neuropathic pain and therefore development of novel pain treatments is highly desired. It has been recognized that NGF levels are elevated in response to chronic pain injury and inflammation and the administration of exogenous NGF increases pain hypersensitivity. In addition inhibition of NGF function with either anti NGF antibodies or non selective small molecule Trk inhibitors has been shown to have effects on pain in animal models. It appears that a selective Trk inhibitor inhibiting at least NGF s target the TrkA receptor might provide clinical benefit for the treatment of pain. Excellent earlier reviews have covered targeting NGF BDNF for the treatment of pain so this review will only focus on small molecule Trk kinase inhibitors claimed against cancer and pain. However it is notable that the NGF antibody tanezumab was very recently reported to show good efficacy in a Phase II trial against osteoarthritic knee pain. 

International Patent Application publication number WO2009 012283 refers to various fluorophenyl compounds as Trk inhibitors International Patent Application publication numbers WO2009 152087 WO2008 080015 and WO2008 08001 and WO2009 152083 refer to various fused pyrroles as kinase modulators International Patent Application publication numbers WO2009 143024 and WO2009 143018 refer to various pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidines substituted as Trk inhibitors International Patent Application publication numbers WO2004 056830 and WO2005 116035 describe various 4 amino pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidines as Trk inhibitors. International Patent Application publication number WO2011 133637 describes various pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidines and pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridines as inhibitors of various kinases. International Patent Application publication number WO2005 099709 describes bicyclic heterocycles as serine protease inhibitors. International Patent Application publication number WO2007 047207 describes bicyclic heterocycles as FLAP modulators.

US provisional application U.S. 61 471 758 was filed 5 Apr. 2011. Convention applications U.S. Ser. No. 13 439 131 filed 4 Apr. 2012 and PCT IB2012 051363 filed 22 Mar. 2012 claiming priority thereto. The whole contents of those application in their entirety are herewith included by reference thereto.

Thus Trk inhibitors have a wide variety of potential medical uses. There is a need to provide new Trk inhibitors that are good drug candidates. In particular compounds should preferably bind potently to the Trk receptors in a selective manner compared to other receptors whilst showing little affinity for other receptors including other kinase and or GPC receptors and show functional activity as Trk receptor antagonists. They should be non toxic and demonstrate few side effects. Furthermore the ideal drug candidate will exist in a physical form that is stable non hygroscopic and easily formulated. They should preferably be e.g. well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and or be injectable directly into the bloodstream muscle or subcutaneously and or be metabolically stable and possess favourable pharmacokinetic properties.

Among the aims of this invention are to provide orally active efficacious compounds and salts which can be used as active drug substances particularly Trk antagonists i.e. that block the intracellular kinase activity of the Trk e.g. TrkA NGF receptor. Other desirable features include good HLM hepatocyte stability oral bioavailability metabolic stability absorption selectivity over other types of kinase dofetilide selectivity. Preferable compounds and salts will show a lack of CYP inhibition induction and be CNS sparing.

The invention also comprises pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I as defined herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The invention is also directed to a method of treating a disease or condition indicated for treatment with a Trk antagonist in a subject by administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of one or more of the compounds herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Preferably the compounds of the present invention are potent antagonists at Trk receptors and have a suitable PK profile to enable once daily dosing.

The compounds of the present invention are potentially useful in the treatment of a range of disorders where a Trk antagonist is indicated particularly pain indications. Depending on the disease and condition of the patient the term treatment as used herein may include one or more of curative palliative and prophylactic treatment.

According to the invention a compound of the present invention may be useful to treat any physiological pain such as inflammatory pain nociceptive pain neuropathic pain acute pain chronic pain musculo skeletal pain on going pain central pain heart and vascular pain head pain orofacial pain. Other pain conditions which may be treated include intense acute pain and chronic pain conditions which may involve the same pain pathways driven by pathophysiological processes and as such cease to provide a protective mechanism and instead contribute to debilitating symptoms associated with a wide range of disease states.

Pain is a feature of many trauma and disease states. When a substantial injury via disease or trauma to body tissue occurs the characteristics of nociceptor activation are altered this leads to hypersensitivity at the site of damage and in nearby normal tissue. In acute pain the sensitivity returns to normal once the injury has healed. However in many chronic pain states the hypersensitivity far outlasts the healing process and is normally due to nervous system injury due to maladaptation of the afferent fibres Woolf Salter 2000 Science 288 1765 1768 . Clinical pain is present when discomfort and abnormal sensitivity feature among the patient s symptoms. There are a number of typical pain subtypes 1 spontaneous pain which may be dull burning or stabbing 2 pain responses to noxious stimuli are exaggerated hyperalgesia 3 pain is produced by normally innocuous stimuli allodynia Meyer et al. 1994 Textbook of Pain 13 44 . Pain can be divided into a number of different areas because of differing pathophysiology these include nociceptive inflammatory neuropathic pain among others. It should be noted that some types of pain have multiple aetiologies and thus can be classified in more than one area e.g. Back pain Cancer pain have both nociceptive and neuropathic components.

Nociceptive pain is induced by tissue injury or by intense stimuli with the potential to cause injury. Pain afferents are activated by transduction of stimuli by nociceptors at the site of injury and sensitise the spinal cord at the level of their termination. This is then relayed up the spinal tracts to the brain where pain is perceived Meyer et al. 1994 Textbook of Pain 13 44 . The activation of nociceptors activates two types of afferent nerve fibres. Myelinated A delta fibres transmit rapidly and are responsible for the sharp and stabbing pain sensations whilst unmyelinated C fibres transmit at a slower rate and convey the dull or aching pain. Moderate to severe acute nociceptive pain is a prominent feature of but is not limited to pain from strains sprains post operative pain pain following any type of surgical procedure posttraumatic pain burns myocardial infarction acute pancreatitis and renal colic. Also cancer related acute pain syndromes commonly due to therapeutic interactions such as chemotherapy toxicity immunotherapy hormonal therapy and radiotherapy. Moderate to severe acute nociceptive pain is a prominent feature of but is not limited to cancer pain which may be tumour related pain e.g. bone pain headache and facial pain viscera pain or associated with cancer therapy e.g. postchemotherapy syndromes chronic postsurgical pain syndromes post radiation syndromes back pain which may be due to herniated or ruptured intervertabral discs or abnormalities of the lumbar facet joints sacroiliac joints paraspinal muscles or the posterior longitudinal ligament.

According to the invention a compound of the present invention can potentially be used to treat neuropathic pain and the symptoms of neuropathic pain including hyperalgesia allodynia and ongoing pain. Neuropathic pain is defined as pain initiated or caused by a primary lesion or dysfunction in the nervous system IASP definition . Nerve damage can be caused by trauma and disease and thus the term neuropathic pain encompasses many disorders with diverse aetiologies. These include but are not limited to Diabetic neuropathy Post herpetic neuralgia Back pain Cancer neuropathy HIV neuropathy Phantom limb pain Carpal Tunnel Syndrome chronic alcoholism hypothyroidism trigeminal neuralgia uremia or vitamin deficiencies. Neuropathic pain is pathological as it has no protective role. It is often present well after the original cause has dissipated commonly lasting for years significantly decreasing a patients quality of life Woolf and Mannion 1999 Lancet 353 1959 1964 . The symptoms of neuropathic pain are difficult to treat as they are often heterogeneous even between patients with the same disease Woolf Decosterd 1999 Pain Supp. 6 S141 S147 Woolf and Mannion 1999 Lancet 353 1959 1964 . They include spontaneous pain which can be continuous or paroxysmal and abnormal evoked pain such as hyperalgesia increased sensitivity to a noxious stimulus and allodynia sensitivity to a normally innocuous stimulus .

Intense acute pain and chronic pain may involve the same pathways driven by pathophysiological processes and as such cease to provide a protective mechanism and instead contribute to debilitating symptoms associated with a wide range of disease states. Pain is a feature of many trauma and disease states. When a substantial injury via disease or trauma to body tissue occurs the characteristics of nociceptor activation are altered. There is sensitisation in the periphery locally around the injury and centrally where the nociceptors terminate. This leads to hypersensitivity at the site of damage and in nearby normal tissue. In acute pain these mechanisms can be useful and allow for the repair processes to take place and the hypersensitivity returns to normal once the injury has healed. However in many chronic pain states the hypersensitivity far outlasts the healing process and is normally due to nervous system injury. This injury often leads to maladaptation of the afferent fibres Woolf Salter 2000 Science 288 1765 1768 . Clinical pain is present when discomfort and abnormal sensitivity feature among the patient s symptoms. Patients tend to be quite heterogeneous and may present with various pain symptoms. There are a number of typical pain subtypes 1 spontaneous pain which may be dull burning or stabbing 2 exaggerated pain responses to noxious stimuli hyperalgesia 3 pain is produced by normally innocuous stimuli allodynia Meyer et al. 1994 Textbook of Pain 13 44 . Although patients with back pain arthritis pain CNS trauma or neuropathic pain may have similar symptoms the underlying mechanisms are different and therefore may require different treatment strategies.

Chronic pain comprises one or more of chronic nociceptive pain chronic neuropathic pain chronic inflammatory pain breakthrough pain persistent pain hyperalgesia allodynia central sensitisation peripheral sensitisation disinhibition and augmented facilitation.

Chronic pain includes cancer pain e.g. cancer pain arising from malignancy adenocarcinoma in glandular tissue blastoma in embryonic tissue of organs carcinoma in epithelial tissue leukemia in tissues that form blood cells lymphoma in lymphatic tissue myeloma in bone marrow sarcoma in connective or supportive tissue adrenal cancer AIDS related lymphoma anemia bladder cancer bone cancer brain cancer breast cancer carcinoid tumour s cervical cancer chemotherapy colon cancer cytopenia endometrial cancer esophageal cancer gastric cancer head cancer neck cancer hepatobiliary cancer kidney cancer leukemia liver cancer lung cancer lymphoma Hodgkin s disease lymphoma non Hodgkin s nervous system tumours oral cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer skin cancer stomach cancer testicular cancer thyroid cancer urethral cancer bone cancer sarcomas cancer of the connective tissue cancer of bone tissue cancer of blood forming cells cancer of bone marrow multiple myeloma leukaemia primary or secondary bone cancer tumours that metastasize to the bone tumours infiltrating the nerve and hollow viscus tumours near neural structures. Cancer pain also comprises visceral pain e.g. visceral pain which arises from pancreatic cancer and or metastases in the abdomen somatic pain e.g. somatic pain due to one or more of bone cancer metastasis in the bone postsurgical pain sarcomas cancer of the connective tissue cancer of bone tissue cancer of blood forming cells of the bone marrow multiple myeloma leukaemia primary or secondary bone cancer.

Inflammatory conditions include acute inflammation persistent acute inflammation chronic inflammation and combined acute and chronic inflammation.

Inflammatory pain includes acute inflammatory pain and or chronic inflammatory pain wherein the chronic inflammatory pain can be pain involving both peripheral and central sensitisation and or mixed etiology pain involving both inflammatory pain and neuropathic pain or nociceptive pain components. Inflammatory pain also comprises hyperalgesia e.g. primary and or secondary hyperalgesia. Additionally or alternatively the inflammatory pain can include allodynia. Inflammatory pain also comprises pain that persists beyond resolution of an underlying disorder or inflammatory condition or healing of an injury.

Inflammatory pain is pain resulting an inflammatory condition. e.g. in response to acute tissue injury due to trauma disease e.g. an inflammatory disease immune reaction the presence of foreign substances chemicals or infective particles for example micro organisms. Inflammatory conditions can be either acute or chronic inflammation or both.

Inflammatory pain can result from an inflammatory condition due to an inflammatory disease such as inflammatory joint diseases inflammatory connective tissue diseases inflammatory autoimmune diseases inflammatory myopathies inflammatory digestive system diseases inflammatory air way diseases cellular immune inflammation diseases hypersensitivities and allergies vasular inflammation diseases non immune inflammatory disease synovitis villonodular synovitis arthralgias ankylosing spondylitis spondyloarthritis spondyloarthropathy gout Pagets disease periarticular disorders such as bursitis rheumatoid disease rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis in particular represents ongoing inflammation associated with severe pain. Arthritic pain is a form of inflammatory pain and arises from inflammation in a joint which causes both peripheral sensitization and central sensitization. Under inflammatory conditions the nociceptive system is activated by normally innocuous and nonpainful mechanical stimuli. Additionally when the joint is at rest pain is present and appears as spontaneous pain and hyperalgesia augmented pain response on noxious stimulation and pain on normally nonpainful stimulation . Inflammatory processes in peripheral tissues lead to central sensitization in the spinal cord which contributes to hyperalgesia and allodynia typically associated with inflammatory pain. Other types of inflammatory pain include inflammatory bowel diseases IBD .

Head pain including but not limited to migraine migraine with aura migraine without aura cluster headache tension type headache. Orofacial pain including but not limited to dental pain temporomandibular myofascial pain tinnitus hot flushes restless leg syndrome and blocking development of abuse potential. Further pain conditions may include back pain e.g. chronic lower back pain cancer pain complex regional syndrome HIV related neuropathic pain post operative induced neuropathic pain post stroke pain spinal cord injury pain traumatic nerve injury pain diabetic peripheral neuropathy moderate severe interstitial cystitis pain irritable bowel syndrome pain moderate severe endometriosis pain moderate severe pelvic pain moderate severe prostatitis pain moderate severe osteoarthritis pain post herpetic neuralgia rheumatoid arthritis pain dysmenorrhea pain pre emptive post operative pain trigeminal neuralgia bursitis dental pain fibromyalgia or myofacial pain menstrual pain migraine neuropathic pain including painful diabetic neuropathy pain associated with post herpetic neuralgia post operative pain referred pain trigeminal neuralgia visceral pain including interstitial cystitis and IBS and pain associated with AIDS allodynia burns cancer hyperalgesia hypersensitisation spinal trauma and or degeneration and stroke.

Ris 5 or 6 membered unsaturated ring optionally substituted by 1 or 2 substituents independently selected from halo O CN Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more F OH or Calkoxy optionally substituted by one or more F and Ccycloalkyl.

Embodiment 3 A compound or salt according to embodiment 1 or 2 wherein Ris a ring system which ring is selected from 

Embodiment 6 A compound or salt according to embodiment 1 2 3 4 or 5 wherein Ris 1 hydroxy 2 methylpropan 2 yl.

Embodiment 8 A compound or salt according to embodiment 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 wherein Ris selected from phenyl pyridin 2 yl and pyrazol 1 yl each of which is substituted by 1 or 2 substituents independently selected from cyclopropyl methyl CFand Cl.

Embodiment 9 A compound or salt according to embodiment 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 wherein Ris selected from 4 chlorophenyl 3 CF phenyl 4 CF phenyl 5 chloropyridin 2 yl 4 CF pyrazol 1 yl 3 cyclopropylpyrazol 1 yl and 5 methyl 3 CF pyrazol 1 yl.

Embodiment 11 A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as defined in any one of the preceding embodiments 1 to 10 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Embodiment 12 A compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as defined in any one of embodiments 1 to 10 for use as a medicament.

Embodiment 13 A compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as defined in any one of embodiments 1 to 10 for use in the treatment of a disease for which an Trk receptor antagonist is indicated.

Embodiment 14 A compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as defined in any one of embodiments 1 to 10 for use in the treatment of pain or cancer.

Embodiment 15 The use of a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or composition thereof as defined in any one of embodiments 1 to 10 for the manufacture of a medicament to treat a disease for which an Trk receptor antagonist is indicated

Embodiment 16 The use of a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or composition thereof as defined in any one of embodiments 1 to 10 for the manufacture of a medicament to treat pain or cancer.

Embodiment 17 A method of treatment of a mammal to treat a disease for which an Trk receptor antagonist is indicated comprising treating said mammal with an effective amount of a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as defined in any one of embodiments 1 to 10.

Embodiment 18 A method of treatment of pain or cancer in a mammal comprising treating said mammal with an effective amount of a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as defined in any one of embodiments 1 to 10.

Embodiment 19 A compound or salt according to any one of embodiments 1 to 10 for use in a medical treatment in combination with a further drug substance.

A compound or salt according to any one of embodiments wherein Rhas the value of Rin any of the Examples 

A compound or salt according to any one of embodiments wherein Rhas the value of Rin any of the Examples 

A compound or salt according to any one of embodiments wherein Rhas the value of Rin any of the Examples 

A compound or salt according to any one of embodiments wherein Rhas the value of Rin any of the Examples 

A compound or salt according to any one of embodiments wherein X has the value of X in any of the Examples 

A compound selected from any of the Examples herein described or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

 Alkyl groups containing the requisite number of carbon atoms can be unbranched or branched. Examples of alkyl include methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl i butyl sec butyl and t butyl.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of formula I include the acid addition and base addition salts including disalts hemisalts etc. thereof.

Suitable acid addition salts are formed from acids which form non toxic salts. Examples include the acetate aspartate benzoate besylate bicarbonate carbonate bisulphate sulphate borate camsylate citrate edisylate esylate formate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glucuronate hexafluorophosphate hibenzate hydrochloride chloride hydrobromide bromide hydroiodide iodide isethionate lactate malate maleate malonate mesylate methylsulphate naphthylate 2 napsylate nicotinate nitrate orotate oxalate palmitate pamoate phosphate hydrogen phosphate dihydrogen phosphate saccharate stearate succinate tartrate tosylate and trifluoroacetate salts.

Suitable base addition salts are formed from bases which form non toxic salts. Examples include the aluminium arginine benzathine calcium choline diethylamine diolamine glycine lysine magnesium meglumine olamine potassium sodium tromethamine and zinc salts.

For a review on suitable salts see Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Properties Selection and Use by Stahl and Wermuth Wiley VCH Weinheim Germany 2002 .

The compounds of the invention include compounds of formula I and salts thereof as hereinbefore defined polymorphs and isomers thereof including optical geometric and tautomeric isomers as hereinafter defined and isotopically labelled compounds of formula I.

Unless otherwise specified compounds of formula I containing one or more asymmetric carbon atoms can exist as two or more stereoisomers. Where a compound of formula I contains for example a keto or guanidine group or an aromatic moiety tautomeric isomerism tautomerism can occur. It follows that a single compound may exhibit more than one type of isomerism.

Included within the scope of the claimed compounds of the present invention are all stereoisomers geometric isomers and tautomeric forms of the compounds of formula I including compounds exhibiting more than one type of isomerism and mixtures of one or more thereof. Also included are acid addition or base addition salts wherein the counterion is optically active for example D lactate or L lysine or racemic for example DL tartrate or DL arginine.

Examples of types of potential tautomerisms shown by the compounds of the invention include hydroxypyridine pyridone amide hydroxyl imine and keto enol tautomersims 

Cis trans isomers may be separated by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art for example chromatography and fractional crystallisation.

Conventional techniques for the preparation isolation of individual enantiomers include chiral synthesis from a suitable optically pure precursor or resolution of the racemate or the racemate of a salt or other derivative using for example chiral high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC .

Alternatively the racemate or a racemic precursor may be reacted with a suitable optically active compound for example an alcohol or in the case where the compound of formula I contains an acidic or basic moiety an acid or base such as tartaric acid or 1 phenylethylamine. The resulting diastereomeric mixture may be separated by chromatography and or fractional crystallization and one or both of the diastereoisomers converted to the corresponding pure enantiomer s by means well known to a skilled person.

Chiral compounds of the invention and chiral precursors thereof may be obtained in enantiomerically enriched form using chromatography typically HPLC on a resin with an asymmetric stationary phase and with a mobile phase consisting of a hydrocarbon typically heptane or hexane containing from 0 to 50 isopropanol typically from 2 to 20 and from 0 to 5 of an alkylamine typically 0.1 diethylamine. Concentration of the eluate affords the enriched mixture.

Mixtures of stereoisomers may be separated by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art. see for example Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds by E L Eliel Wiley New York 1994 . 

The present invention includes all pharmaceutically acceptable isotopically labelled compounds of formula I wherein one or more atoms are replaced by atoms having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature.

Examples of isotopes suitable for inclusion in the compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen such as H and H carbon such as C C and C chlorine such as Cl fluorine such as F iodine such as I and I nitrogen such as N and N oxygen such as O O and O phosphorus such as P and sulphur such as S.

Certain isotopically labelled compounds of formula I for example those incorporating a radioactive isotope are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution studies. The radioactive isotopes tritium i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. O are particularly useful for this purpose in view of their ease of incorporation and ready means of detection.

Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances.

Substitution with positron emitting isotopes such as C F O and N can be useful in Positron Emission Topography PET studies for examining substrate receptor occupancy.

Isotopically labelled compounds of formula I can generally be prepared by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the accompanying Examples and Preparations using an appropriate isotopically labelled reagents in place of the non labelled reagent previously employed.

The routes below including those mentioned in the Examples and Preparations illustrate methods of synthesising compounds of formula I . The skilled person will appreciate that the compounds of the invention and intermediates thereto could be made by methods other than those specifically described herein for example by adaptation of the methods described herein for example by methods known in the art. Suitable guides to synthesis functional group interconversions use of protecting groups etc. are for example Comprehensive Organic Transformations by R C Larock VCH Publishers Inc. 1989 Advanced Organic Chemistry by J. March Wiley Interscience 1985 Designing Organic Synthesis by S Warren Wiley Interscience 1978 Organic Synthesis The Disconnection Approach by S Warren Wiley Interscience 1982 Guidebook to Organic Synthesis by R K Mackie and D M Smith Longman 1982 Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by T W Greene and P G M Wuts John Wiley and Sons Inc. 1999 and Protecting Groups by P J Kocienski Georg Thieme Verlag 1994 and any updated versions of said standard works.

In addition the skilled person will appreciate that it may be necessary or desirable at any stage in the synthesis of compounds of the invention to protect one or more sensitive groups so as to prevent undesirable side reactions. In particular it may be necessary or desirable to protect amino or carboxylic acid groups. The protecting groups used in the preparation of the compounds of the invention may be used in conventional manner. See for example those described in Greene s Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Theodora W Greene and Peter G M Wuts third edition John Wiley and Sons 1999 in particular chapters 7 Protection for the Amino Group and 5 Protection for the Carboxyl Group incorporated herein by reference which also describes methods for the removal of such groups.

In the general synthetic methods below unless otherwise specified the substituents are as defined above with reference to the compounds of formula I above.

According to a first process compounds of formula I may be prepared by the process illustrated in Scheme 1.

Compounds of formula I may be prepared from compounds of formula II according to process step i an amide bond formation step if necessary adding a suitable base such as DIPEA and or additive such as DMAP .

Typical conditions employed involve stirring the amine of general formula II and the acid of general formula III together with a suitable coupling reagent such as HATU EDCI HOBt or 1 propylphosphonic acid cyclic anhydride if necessary adding a suitable base such as NMM DIPEA or TEA in a suitable solvent such as pyridine THF DMF or DMA at a temperature from room temperature up to 70 C. A suitable alternative is to use an additive such as 4 dimethylaminopyridine as well as a base. Any suitable solvent may be used in place of those mentioned above. At least one equivalent of the acid III and at least one equivalent of the coupling reagent should be used and an excess of one or both may be used if desired.

Where Rcontains a suitable hydroxyl protecting group in intermediate II removal of the protecting group PG can be done in situ or as an additional step adding a suitable acid and organic solvent to the crude residue after the amide formation has taken place. Common protecting groups to use include TBDMS which is readily removed by treatment with an acid such as aqueous hydrogen chloride or aqueous citric acid in an organic solvent such as THF or by treatment with a fluoride source such as tetrabutylammonium fluoride in an organic solvent such as THF and THP. Preferred conditions comprise 4M 10 HCl in 1 4 dioxane at room temperature.

Intermediates of general formula III are either commercially available or will be well known to those skilled in the art with reference to literature precedents and or the preparations herein.

According to a second process Compounds of formula I wherein Ris 5 cyanopyridine IB may be prepared from compounds of formula I wherein Ris 5 halopyridine IA by the process illustrated in Scheme 2.

according to process step ii a palladium catalysed cyanation step. Typical conditions comprise zinc cyanide with tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 and DPPF in DMF at 100 C.

According to a third process compounds of formula II may be prepared by the process illustrated in Scheme 3.

PG is a suitable amino protecting group such as diphenylmethylene or tertbutyloxycarbonyl Compounds of formula II may be prepared from compounds of formula IV according to process step iii a deprotection step conveniently mediated under acidic conditions using acids such as HCl TFA or citric acid. Wherein PG is tertbutyloxycarbonyl preferred conditions comprise TFA in DCM at room temperature. Wherein PG is diphenylmethylene preferred conditions comprise a 1M aqueous solution of citric acid in THF at room temperature TFA in DCM at room temperature or 0.5M HCl in THF at room temperature.

Compounds of formula IV may be prepared from compounds of formula V and VI according to process step iv a metallation of intermediate halide V using a suitable organometallic reagent such as butyllithium or isopropylmagnesium chloride and reacting with the Weinreb amide intermediate VI at a temperature from 78 C. up to room temperature in a suitable solvent such as THF.

Preferred conditions comprise nBuLi in THF at 78 C. or iPrMgCl in THF at 0 C. Compounds of formula V are described in Scheme 7. Compounds of formula VI are either commercially available or will be well known to those skilled in the art with reference to literature precedents and or the preparations herein. Compounds of formula VA VB and VC described in Scheme 8 may be used in Scheme 3.

According to a fourth process compounds of formula II may be prepared by the process illustrated in Scheme 4.

Compounds of formula II may be prepared from compounds of formula VIII according to process step v a direct amination of the halide using standard literature conditions. For example amine II is typically prepared using ammonia with a suitable copper catalyst such as copper II sulphate or copper I oxide in suitable solvent such as NMP in a sealed vessel at a temperature between room temperature and 140 C. Compounds of formula VIII may be prepared from compounds of formula V and VII according to process step iv as described in Scheme 3 from the suitable Weinreb reagent.

Compounds of formula VII are either commercially available or will be well known to those skilled in the art with reference to literature precedents and or the preparations herein.

According to a fifth process compounds of formula II may be prepared by the process illustrated in Scheme 5.

Compounds of formula II may be prepared from compounds of formula VIII according to process step vi a palladium catalysed amination reaction followed by an acid mediated deprotection reaction as previously described with regard to Scheme 3. Typical conditions comprise using benzophenone imine with a suitable base such as sodium tert butoxide in the presence of a ligand such as tBuXphos catalysed by a palladium species such as tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium in toluene at room temperature followed by TFA in DCM at room temperature.

According to a sixth process compounds of formula VIII may be prepared by the process illustrated in Scheme 6.

Compounds of formula VIII may be prepared from compounds of formula IX according to process step vii an alkylation step with compounds of formula XI wherein LG can be halogen or tosylate mesylate or triflate. Preferred conditions comprise an inorganic base such as cesium carbonate in DMF at room temperature. Compounds of formula XI are either commercially available or the preparation is described herein.

Compounds of formula IX may be prepared from compounds of formula X according to process step iv as described in Scheme 3 or according to process step viii a Friedal Crafts acylation reaction. Typical conditions comprise aluminium trichloride with 2 chloroisonicotinylchloride in DCE at 70 C.

According to a seventh process compounds of formula V may be prepared by the process illustrated in Scheme 7.

Compounds of formula V may be prepared from compounds of formula X according to process step vii an alkylation step as described in Scheme 6.

Compounds of formula X may be prepared from compounds of formula XII according to process step ix an electrophilic halogenation reaction. Typical conditions comprise either NIS or NBS in DMF at room temperature.

Compounds of formula XII may be prepared from compounds of formula XIII according to process step x a cyclisation reaction mediated by acid. Preferred conditions comprise cHCl in ethanol at reflux.

Compounds of formula XIII may be prepared from compounds of formula XIV according to process step xi a Suzuki cross coupling reaction. The vinyl ether can be introduced by reacting intermediate XIV with a suitable boronic ester and a suitable base such as sodium hydroxide and a suitable catalyst such as tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 in a solvent such as THF at a temperature from room temperature up to 70 C.

According to an eighth process compounds of formula VA and VB may be prepared by the process illustrated in Scheme 8.

Compounds of formula VB may be prepared from compounds of formula VC using process step xiii a protection step. As previously mentioned in Scheme 1 the hydroxy group can be protected with a suitable oxygen protecting group PG where the preferred protecting groups are TBDMS TBS and THP. Typical conditions comprise TBDMSCI in DCM at 0 C. with imidazole.

Compounds of formula VC may be prepared from compounds of formula XVI according to process step xii a reduction step. Reduction of the ester intermediate XVI can be effected by using a suitable reducing reagent such as lithium borohydride lithium alumninium hydride or diisobutylalumnium hydride in a suitable solvent such as ethanol or THF. Preferred conditions comprise lithium borohydride in THF at 0 C. or sodium borohydride in EtOH at room temperature.

Compounds of formula VA may be prepared from compounds of formula XV according to process steps xii and xiii as described above.

Compounds of formula XV may be prepared from compounds of formula XVI according to process step xiv a further alkylation step. Typical conditions comprise 1M potassium tertbutoxide in THF at room temperature with an suitable alkylating agent such as methyl iodide.

Compounds of formula XVI may be prepared from compounds of formula X according to process step vii an alkylation step as described in Scheme 6.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of a compound of formula I may be readily prepared by mixing together solutions of the compound of formula I and the desired acid or base as appropriate. The salt may precipitate from solution and be collected by filtration or may be recovered by evaporation of the solvent. The degree of ionisation in the salt may vary from completely ionised to almost non ionised.

The compounds of the invention intended for pharmaceutical use may be administered alone or in combination with one or more other compounds of the invention or in combination with one or more other drug agent or as any combination thereof . Generally they will be administered as a formulation in association with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The term excipient is used herein to describe any biologically inactive ingredient other than the compounds and salts of the invention. The choice of excipient will to a large extent depend on factors such as the particular mode of administration the effect of the excipient on solubility and stability and the nature of the dosage form. For example a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof as defined above may be administered simultaneously e.g. as a fixed dose combination sequentially or separately in combination with one or more other drug agent.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for the delivery of compounds and salts of the present invention and methods for their preparation will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Such compositions and methods for their preparation may be found for example in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 19th Edition Mack Publishing Company 1995 .

Compounds and salts of the invention intended for pharmaceutical use may be prepared and administered as crystalline or amorphous products. They may be obtained for example as solid plugs powders or films by methods such as precipitation crystallization freeze drying spray drying or evaporative drying. Microwave or radio frequency drying may be used for this purpose.

The compounds of the invention may be administered orally. Oral administration may involve swallowing so that the compound enters the gastrointestinal tract or buccal or sublingual administration may be employed by which the compound enters the blood stream directly from the mouth.

Formulations suitable for oral administration include solid formulations such as tablets capsules containing particulates liquids or powders lozenges including liquid filled chews multi and nano particulates gels solid solution liposome films including muco adhesive ovules sprays and liquid formulations.

Liquid formulations include suspensions solutions syrups and elixirs. Such formulations may be employed as fillers in soft or hard capsules and typically comprise a carrier for example water ethanol polyethylene glycol propylene glycol methylcellulose or a suitable oil and one or more emulsifying agents and or suspending agents. Liquid formulations may also be prepared by the reconstitution of a solid for example from a sachet.

The compounds of the invention may also be used in fast dissolving fast disintegrating dosage forms such as those described in Expert Opinion in Therapeutic Patents 11 6 981 986 by Liang and Chen 2001 .

For tablet dosage forms depending on dose the drug may make up from 1 weight to 80 weight of the dosage form more typically from 5 weight to 60 weight of the dosage form. In addition to the drug tablets generally contain a disintegrant. Examples of disintegrants include sodium starch glycolate sodium carboxymethyl cellulose calcium carboxymethyl cellulose croscarmellose sodium crospovidone polyvinylpyrrolidone methyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose lower alkyl substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose starch pregelatinised starch and sodium alginate. Generally the disintegrant will comprise from 1 weight to 25 weight preferably from 5 weight to 20 weight of the dosage form.

Binders are generally used to impart cohesive qualities to a tablet formulation. Suitable binders include microcrystalline cellulose gelatin sugars polyethylene glycol natural and synthetic gums polyvinylpyrrolidone pregelatinised starch hydroxypropyl cellulose and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose. Tablets may also contain diluents such as lactose monohydrate spray dried monohydrate anhydrous and the like mannitol xylitol dextrose sucrose sorbitol microcrystalline cellulose starch and dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate.

Tablets may also optionally comprise surface active agents such as sodium lauryl sulfate and polysorbate 80 and glidants such as silicon dioxide and talc. When present surface active agents may comprise from 0.2 weight to 5 weight of the tablet and glidants may comprise from 0.2 weight to 1 weight of the tablet.

Tablets also generally contain lubricants such as magnesium stearate calcium stearate zinc stearate sodium stearyl fumarate and mixtures of magnesium stearate with sodium lauryl sulphate. Lubricants generally comprise from 0.25 weight to 10 weight preferably from 0.5 weight to 3 weight of the tablet.

Other possible ingredients include anti oxidants colourants flavoring agents preservatives and taste masking agents.

Exemplary tablets contain up to about 80 drug from about 10 weight to about 90 weight binder from about 0 weight to about 85 weight diluent from about 2 weight to about 10 weight disintegrant and from about 0.25 weight to about 10 weight lubricant. Make sure these specific ranges are relevant 

Tablet blends may be compressed directly or by roller to form tablets. Tablet blends or portions of blends may alternatively be wet dry or melt granulated melt congealed or extruded before tableting. The final formulation may comprise one or more layers and may be coated or uncoated it may even be encapsulated.

The formulation of tablets is discussed in Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Tablets Vol. 1 by H. Lieberman and L. Lachman Marcel Dekker N.Y. N.Y. 1980 ISBN 0 8247 6918 X .

The foregoing formulations for the various types of administration discussed above may be formulated to be immediate and or modified release. Modified release formulations include delayed sustained pulsed controlled targeted and programmed release.

Suitable modified release formulations for the purposes of the invention are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 106 864. Details of other suitable release technologies such as high energy dispersions and osmotic and coated particles are to be found in Verma et al Pharmaceutical Technology On line 25 2 1 14 2001 . The use of chewing gum to achieve controlled release is described in WO 00 35298.

The compounds and salts of the invention may be administered directly into the blood stream into muscle or into an internal organ. Suitable means for parenteral administration include intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal intrathecal intraventricular intraurethral intrasternal intracranial intramuscular and subcutaneous. Suitable devices for parenteral administration include needle including microneedle injectors needle free injectors and infusion techniques.

Parenteral formulations are typically aqueous solutions which may contain excipients such as salts carbohydrates and buffering agents preferably to a pH of from 3 to 9 but for some applications they may be more suitably formulated as a sterile non aqueous solution or as a dried form to be used in conjunction with a suitable vehicle such as sterile pyrogen free water.

The preparation of parenteral formulations under sterile conditions for example by lyophilisation may readily be accomplished using standard pharmaceutical techniques well known to those skilled in the art.

The solubility of compounds of formula I and salts used in the preparation of parenteral solutions may be increased by the use of appropriate formulation techniques such as the incorporation of solubility enhancing agents.

Formulations for parenteral administration may be formulated to be immediate and or modified release. Thus compounds and salts of the invention may be formulated as a solid semi solid or thixotropic liquid for administration as an implanted depot providing modified release of the active compound. An example of such formulations include drug coated stents.

The compounds and salts of the invention may also be administered topically to the skin or mucosa that is dermally or transdermally. Typical formulations for this purpose include gels hydrogels lotions solutions creams ointments dusting powders dressings foams films skin patches wafers implants sponges fibres bandages and microemulsions. Liposomes may also be used. Typical carriers include alcohol water mineral oil liquid petrolatum white petrolatum glycerin polyethylene glycol and propylene glycol. Penetration enhancers may be incorporated see for example Finnin and Morgan J Pharm Sci 88 10 955 958 October 1999 . Other means of topical administration include delivery by electroporation iontophoresis phonophoresis sonophoresis and microneedle or needle free e.g. Powderject Bioject etc. injection.

The compounds and salts of the invention may also be administered intranasally or by inhalation typically in the form of a dry powder either alone as a mixture for example in a dry blend with lactose or as a mixed component particle for example mixed with phospholipids such as phosphatidylcholine from a dry powder inhaler or as an aerosol spray from a pressurised container pump spray atomiser preferably an atomiser using electrohydrodynamics to produce a fine mist or nebuliser with or without the use of a suitable propellant such as 1 1 1 2 tetrafluoroethane or 1 1 1 2 3 3 3 heptafluoropropane. For intranasal use the powder may comprise a bioadhesive agent for example chitosan or cyclodextrin.

A pressurised container pump spray atomizer or nebuliser may contain a solution or suspension of the compound s or salt s of the invention comprising for example ethanol aqueous ethanol or a suitable alternative agent for dispersing solubilising or extending release of the active a propellant s as solvent and an optional surfactant such as sorbitan trioleate oleic acid or an oligolactic acid.

Prior to use in a dry powder or suspension formulation the drug product is micronised to a size suitable for delivery by inhalation typically less than 5 microns . This may be achieved by any appropriate comminuting method such as spiral jet milling fluid bed jet milling supercritical fluid processing to form nanoparticles high pressure homogenisation or spray drying.

Capsules made for example from gelatin or HPMC blisters and cartridges for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated to contain a powder mix of the compound or salt of the invention a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch and a performance modifier such as I leucine mannitol or magnesium stearate. The lactose may be anhydrous or in the form of the monohydrate preferably the latter. Other suitable excipients include dextran glucose maltose sorbitol xylitol fructose sucrose and trehalose.

A suitable solution formulation for use in an atomiser using electrohydrodynamics to produce a fine mist may contain from 1 g to 20 mg of the compound or salt of the invention per actuation and the actuation volume may vary from 1 l to 100 l. A typical formulation may comprise a compound of formula I or salt thereof propylene glycol sterile water ethanol and sodium chloride. Alternative solvents which may be used instead of propylene glycol include glycerol and polyethylene glycol.

Suitable flavours such as menthol and levomenthol or sweeteners such as saccharin or saccharin sodium may be added to those formulations of the invention intended for inhaled intranasal administration.

Formulations for inhaled intranasal administration may be formulated to be immediate and or modified release using for example poly DL lactic coglycolic acid PGLA . Modified release formulations include delayed sustained pulsed controlled targeted and programmed release.

In the case of dry powder inhalers and aerosols the dosage unit is determined by a prefilled capsule blister or pocket or by a system that utilises a gravimetrically fed dosing chamber. Units in accordance with the invention are typically arranged to administer a metered dose or puff containing from 1 to 5000 g of the compound or salt. The overall daily dose will typically be in the range 1 g to 20 mg which may be administered in a single dose or more usually as divided doses throughout the day.

The compounds and salts of the invention may be administered rectally or vaginally for example in the form of a suppository pessary or enema. Cocoa butter is a traditional suppository base but various well known alternatives may be used as appropriate.

The compounds and salts of the invention may also be administered directly to the eye or ear typically in the form of drops of a micronised suspension or solution in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline. Other formulations suitable for ocular and aural administration include ointments biodegradable e.g. absorbable gel sponges collagen and non biodegradable e.g. silicone implants wafers lenses and particulate or vesicular systems such as niosomes or liposomes. A polymer such as crossed linked polyacrylic acid polyvinylalcohol hyaluronic acid a cellulosic polymer for example hydroxypropylmethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose or methyl cellulose or a heteropolysaccharide polymer for example gelan gum may be incorporated together with a preservative such as benzalkonium chloride. Such formulations may also be delivered by iontophoresis.

The compounds and salts of the invention may be combined with soluble macromolecular entities such as cyclodextrin and suitable derivatives thereof or polyethylene glycol containing polymers in order to improve their solubility dissolution rate taste masking bioavailability and or stability for use in any of the aforementioned modes of administration.

Drug cyclodextrin complexes for example are found to be generally useful for most dosage forms and administration routes. Both inclusion and non inclusion complexes may be used. As an alternative to direct complexation with the drug the cyclodextrin may be used as an auxiliary additive i.e. as a carrier diluent or solubiliser. Most commonly used for these purposes are alpha beta and gamma cyclodextrins examples of which may be found in International Patent Applications Nos. WO 91 11172 WO 94 02518 and WO 98 55148.

For administration to human patients the total daily dose of the compounds and salts of the invention is typically in the range 0.1 mg to 200 mg depending of course on the mode of administration preferred in the range 1 mg to 100 mg and more preferred in the range 1 mg to 50 mg. The total daily dose may be administered in single or divided doses.

These dosages are based on an average human subject having a weight of about 65 kg to 70 kg. The physician will readily be able to determine doses for subjects whose weight falls outside this range such as infants and the elderly.

For the above mentioned therapeutic uses the dosage administered will of course vary with the compound or salt employed the mode of administration the treatment desired and the disorder indicated. The total daily dosage of the compound of formula 0 salt solvate active ingredient will generally be in the range from 1 mg to 1 gram preferably 1 mg to 250 mg more preferably 10 mg to 100 mg. The total daily dose may be administered in single or divided doses. The present invention also encompasses sustained release compositions.

The pharmaceutical composition may for example be in a form suitable for parenteral injection as a sterile solution suspension or emulsion for topical administration as an ointment or cream or for rectal administration as a suppository. The pharmaceutical composition may be in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of precise dosages. The pharmaceutical composition will include a conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and a compound according to the invention as an active ingredient. In addition it may include other medicinal or pharmaceutical agents carriers adjuvants etc.

Exemplary parenteral administration forms include solutions or suspensions of active compounds in sterile aqueous solutions for example aqueous propylene glycol or dextrose solutions. Such dosage forms can be suitably buffered if desired.

Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert diluents or fillers water and various organic solvents. The pharmaceutical compositions may if desired contain additional ingredients such as flavorings binders excipients and the like. Thus for oral administration tablets containing various excipients such as citric acid may be employed together with various disintegrants such as starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates and with binding agents such as sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tableting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials therefor include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration the active compound therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matters or dyes and if desired emulsifying agents or suspending agents together with diluents such as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin or combinations thereof.

Dosage regimens may be adjusted to provide the optimum desired response. For example a single bolus may be administered several divided doses may be administered over time or the dose may be proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic situation. It is especially advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the mammalian subjects to be treated each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on a the unique characteristics of the chemotherapeutic agent and the particular therapeutic or prophylactic effect to be achieved and b the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound for the treatment of sensitivity in individuals.

Thus the skilled artisan would appreciate based upon the disclosure provided herein that the dose and dosing regimen is adjusted in accordance with methods well known in the therapeutic arts. That is the maximum tolerable dose can be readily established and the effective amount providing a detectable therapeutic benefit to a patient may also be determined as can the temporal requirements for administering each agent to provide a detectable therapeutic benefit to the patient. Accordingly while certain dose and administration regimens are exemplified herein these examples in no way limit the dose and administration regimen that may be provided to a patient in practicing the present invention.

It is to be noted that dosage values may vary with the type and severity of the condition to be alleviated and may include single or multiple doses. It is to be further understood that for any particular subject specific dosage regimens should be adjusted over time according to the individual need and the professional judgment of the person administering or supervising the administration of the compositions and that dosage ranges set forth herein are exemplary only and are not intended to limit the scope or practice of the claimed composition. For example doses may be adjusted based on pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic parameters which may include clinical effects such as toxic effects and or laboratory values. Thus the present invention encompasses intra patient dose escalation as determined by the skilled artisan. Determining appropriate dosages and regiments for administration of the chemotherapeutic agent are well known in the relevant art and would be understood to be encompassed by the skilled artisan once provided the teachings disclosed herein.

A pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be prepared packaged or sold in bulk as a single unit dose or as a plurality of single unit doses. As used herein a unit dose is discrete amount of the pharmaceutical composition comprising a predetermined amount of the active ingredient. The amount of the active ingredient is generally equal to the dosage of the active ingredient which would be administered to a subject or a convenient fraction of such a dosage such as for example one half or one third of such a dosage.

For parenteral dosages this may conveniently be prepared as a solution or as a dry powder requiring dissolution by a pharmacist medical practitioner or the patient. It may be provided in a bottle or sterile syringe. For example it may be provided as a powder in a multicompartment syringe which allows the dry powder and solvent to be mixed just prior to administration to aid long term stability and storage . Syringes could be used which allow multiple doses to be administered from a single device.

The relative amounts of the active ingredient the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and any additional ingredients in a pharmaceutical composition of the invention will vary depending upon the identity size and condition of the subject treated and further depending upon the route by which the composition is to be administered. By way of example the composition may comprise between 0.1 and 100 w w active ingredient.

In addition to the active ingredient a pharmaceutical composition of the invention may further comprise one or more additional pharmaceutically active agents.

Controlled or sustained release formulations of a pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be made using conventional technology.

As used herein parenteral administration of a pharmaceutical composition includes any route of administration characterized by physical breaching of a tissue of a subject and administration of the pharmaceutical composition through the breach in the tissue. Parenteral administration thus includes but is not limited to administration of a pharmaceutical composition by injection of the composition by application of the composition through a surgical incision by application of the composition through a tissue penetrating non surgical wound and the like. In particular parenteral administration is contemplated to include but is not limited to subcutaneous intraperitoneal intramuscular intrasternal injection and kidney dialytic infusion techniques.

Formulations of a pharmaceutical composition suitable for parenteral administration comprise the active ingredient combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as sterile water or sterile isotonic saline. Such formulations may be prepared packaged or sold in a form suitable for bolus administration or for continuous administration. Injectable formulations may be prepared packaged or sold in unit dosage form such as in ampules or in multi dose containers containing a preservative. Formulations for parenteral administration include but are not limited to suspensions solutions emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles pastes and implantable sustained release or biodegradable formulations as discussed below. Such formulations may further comprise one or more additional ingredients including but not limited to suspending stabilizing or dispersing agents. In one embodiment of a formulation for parenteral administration the active ingredient is provided in dry i.e. powder or granular form for reconstitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water prior to parenteral administration of the reconstituted composition.

A composition of the present invention can be administered by a variety of methods known in the art. The route and or mode of administration vary depending upon the desired results. The active compounds can be prepared with carriers that protect the compound against rapid release such as a controlled release formulation including implants transdermal patches and microencapsulated delivery systems.

Biodegradable biocompatible polymers can be used such as ethylene vinyl acetate polyanhydrides polyglycolic acid collagen polyorthoesters and polylactic acid. Many methods for the preparation of such formulations are described by e.g. Sustained and Controlled Release Drug Delivery Systems J. R. Robinson ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1978 . Pharmaceutical compositions are preferably manufactured under GMP conditions.

The pharmaceutical compositions may be prepared packaged or sold in the form of a sterile injectable aqueous or oily suspension or solution. This suspension or solution may be formulated according to the known art and may comprise in addition to the active ingredient additional ingredients such as the dispersing agents wetting agents or suspending agents described herein. Such sterile injectable formulations may be prepared using a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as water or 1 3 butane diol for example. Other acceptable diluents and solvents include but are not limited to Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride solution and fixed oils such as synthetic mono or di glycerides. Other parentally administrable formulations which are useful include those which comprise the active ingredient in microcrystalline form in a liposomal preparation or as a component of a biodegradable polymer system. Compositions for sustained release or implantation may comprise pharmaceutically acceptable polymeric or hydrophobic materials such as an emulsion an ion exchange resin a sparingly soluble polymer or a sparingly soluble salt.

The precise dosage administered of each active ingredient will vary depending upon any number of factors including but not limited to the type of animal and type of disease state being treated the age of the animal and the route s of administration.

The following non limiting Preparations and Examples illustrate the preparation of compounds and salts of the present invention.

The Preparations and Examples that follow illustrate the invention but do not limit the invention in any way. All starting materials are available commercially or described in the literature. All temperature are in C. Flash column chromatography was carried out using Merck silica gel 60 9385 or Redisep silica. NMR was carried out using a Varian Mercury 400 MHz NMR spectrometer or a Jeol ECX 400 MHz NMR. Where it is stated that compounds were prepared in the manner described for an earlier Preparation or Example the skilled person will appreciate that reaction times number of equivalents of reagents and reaction temperatures may have been modified for each specific reaction and that it may nevertheless be necessary or desirable to employ different work up or purification conditions.

Where singleton compounds have been analysed by LCMS there are several methods used. These are illustrated below.

The invention is illustrated by the following non limiting Examples in which the following abbreviations and definitions are used 

AcOH acetic acid APCI atmospheric pressure chemical ionization Arbocel is a filter agent br s broad singlet BINAP 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binapthyl nBuLi n Butyllithium CDCl deuterated chloroform CsCOis caesium carbonate Cul is copper I iodide Cu OAc is copper II acetate chemical shift d doublet DAD diode array detector DCE 1 2 dichloroethane DCM dichloromethane DEA diethylamine DIBAL Diisobutylaluminium hydride DIPEA diisopropylethylamine DMAP 4 dimethylaminopyridine DME dimethoxyethane DMF N N dimethylformamide DMF DMA N N dimethylformamide dimethylacetal DMSO dimethylsulphoxide DPPF 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene ELSD evaporative light scattering detector ESI electrospray ionization EtO diethylether EtOAc EA ethyl acetate EtOH ethanol g gram HATU 2 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HBTU is O benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HCl is hydrochloric acid HOBT is N hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate HPLC high pressure liquid chromatography IPA isopropyl alcohol KOCis potassium carbonate KHSOis potassium hydrogen sulphate KOAc is potassium acetate KOH is potassium hydroxide KPOis potassium phosphate tribasic KF potassium fluoride L is liter LCMS liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LiHMDS Lithium hexamethyldisilazide m multiplet mg milligram mL milliliter M Z Mass Spectrum Peak MeCN acetonitrile MeOH methanol 2 MeTHF 2 methyltetrahydrofuran MgSOis magnesium sulphate MnO manganese dioxide NaClO sodium chlorite NaH sodium hydride NaHCO sodium hydrogencarbonate NaCO sodium carbonate NaHPO sodium phosphate NaHSO sodium bisulphite NaHSO sodium hydrogensulphate NaOH sodium hydroxide NaSO sodium sulphate NH ammonia NHCl ammonium chloride NMM N MethylMorpholine NMR nuclear magnetic resonance Pd C palladium on carbon PdCl palladium dichloride Pd dba is tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 Pd PPh palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine Pd OAc palladium acetate PTSA para toluenesulfonic acid Prep preparation R retention time q quartet s singlet TBDMS tertbutyldimethylsilyl TBME tertbutyldimethylether TCP 1 propylphosphonic acid cyclic anhydride TEA triethylamine TFA trifluoroacetic acid THF tetrahydrofuran TLC thin layer chromatography R S racemic mixture WSCDI 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride.

For the avoidance of doubt named compounds used herein have been named using IUAPC Chemdraw and or Name Pro ACD Labs Name Software v7.11 or using other standard nomenclature. NMR spectra were measured in deuterated solvents and were consistent with the names structures given below.

Where singleton compounds have been analysed by LCMS several methods were used. These are illustrated below.

Where singleton compounds have been purified by High Performance Liquid Chromatography unless otherwise stated one of four methods were used and these are shown below.

a solution of N 5 1 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 3 carbonyl pyridin 3 yl 2 5 methyl 3 trifluoromethyl pyrazol 1 yl acetamide Preparation 7 37 mg 58 mol in THF 5 mL 4M dioxane HCl 0.5 mL was added and stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as an off white solid in 86 yield 26 mg.

To a solution of N 5 1 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 3 carbonyl pyridin 3 yl 2 3 cyclopropyl pyrazol 1 yl acetamide Preparation 6 40 mg 67 mol in THF 5 mL 4M dioxane HCl 1 mL was added and stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as an off white solid in 92 yield 30 mg.

To a solution of N 5 1 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 3 carbonyl pyridin 3 yl 2 5 chloro pyridin 2 yl acetamide Preparation 5 30 mg 62 mol in THF 5 mL 4M dioxane HCl 0.5 mL was added and stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction was evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as a white solid in 100 yield 24.3 mg.

To a solution of N 5 1 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 3 carbonyl pyridin 3 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl pyrazol 1 yl acetamide Preparation 4 35 mg 56 mol in THF 2 mL 4M dioxane HCl 0.5 mL was added and stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as an off white solid in 100 yield 28.54 mg.

To a solution of N 5 1 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 3 carbonyl pyridin 3 yl 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetamide Preparation 3 40 mg 63 mol in THF 5 mL 4M dioxane HCl 0.5 mL was added and stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction was evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as a yellow solid in 86 yield 28 mg.

To a solution of N 5 1 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 3 carbonyl pyridin 3 yl 2 4 chloro phenyl acetamide Preparation 2 35 mg 70 mol in THF 2 mL 4M dioxane HCl 0.2 mL was added and stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction was evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as a white solid in 88 yield 25 mg.

To a solution of N 5 1 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 3 carbonyl pyridin 3 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetamide Preparation 1 45 mg 49 mol in THF 5 mL 4M dioxane HCl 0.5 mL was added and stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction was evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as a yellow solid in 83 yield 30 mg.

To a solution of N 5 1 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 3 carbonyl pyridin 3 yl 2 5 chloro pyridin 2 yl acetamide Preparation 8 45 mg 0.077 mmol in THF 3 mL 4M dioxane HCl 0.4 mL was added and stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated in vacuo and purified by column chromatography on silica gel gradient of MeOH DCM 0 100 to 3 100 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid in 69 yield 25 mg.

Prepared according to the method described for Example 8 using N 2 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 4 yl 2 4 cyanophenyl acetamide Preparation 9 . Purified using preparative HPLC. LCMS 5 minute run Rt 2.87 minutes MS m z 454 M H 

Prepared according to the method described for Example 8 using N 2 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 4 yl 2 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetamide Preparation 10 . Purified using preparative HPLC.

Prepared according to the method described for Example 8 using N 2 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 4 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetamide Preparation 11 . Purified using preparative HPLC.

Prepared according to Method Y using N 5 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 3 yl 2 4 cyanophenyl acetamide Preparation 12 .

Prepared according to Method Y using N 5 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 3 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetamide Preparation 13 .

Prepared according to Method Y using N 5 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 3 yl 2 4 isopropyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetamide Preparation 14 .

Prepared according to Method Y using N 5 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 3 yl 2 4 cyclopropyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetamide Preparation 15 .

Prepared according to Method Y using N 5 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 3 yl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl acetamide Preparation 16 .

Prepared according to Method Y using N 2 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 4 yl 2 5 chloropyridin 2 yl acetamide Preparation 17 .

Prepared according to Method Y using N 2 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 4 yl 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetamide Preparation 18 .

2 2 cyclopropyl 5 methyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl N 5 1 propan 2 yl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 3 yl acetamide

To a mixture of 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 19 80 mg 0.285 mmol and 2 cyclopropyl 5 methyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl acetic acid Preparation 87 52 mg 0.285 mmol in THF 5 mL was added triethylamine 138 uL 0.997 mmol and propylphosphonic anhydride 429 uL 0.712 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was concentrated to dryness and purified using preparative HPLC to afford the title compound as a white solid 50 mg 39 .

The following examples were prepared according to Method 1 using the appropriate amine and acid as referred to. Where necessary the crude reaction was also partitioned between EtOAc and saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution the organic layer collected washed with brine and dried over sodium sulphate before concentrating in vacuo and purifying by preparative HPLC.

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 1 using 4 cyanophenylacetic acid followed by the method described for Example 8 as an off white solid 26 mg 90 .

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 1 using 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl acetic acid Preparation 82 followed by the method described for Example 8 as a brown solid 30 mg 100 .

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 1 using 4 trifluoromethyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetic acid Preparation 90 followed by the method described for Example 8 as a brown solid 26 mg 84 .

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 1 using 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetic acid Preparation 74 followed by the method described for Example 8 as an off white solid 32 mg 87 .

To Monomer B 90 mol was added a 0.13 M solution of Monomer A 2 Aminopyridin 4 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 20 500 uL 65 umol in DMA. NMM 16.8 L 150 mol was added followed by DMAP 6.5 mol . A 0.375M solution of EDCI 400 L 150 mol in DMA and a 0.075M solution of HOBt 100 L 7.5 umol in DMA was added and the reaction shaken at 60 C. for 4 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue purified using preparative HPLC to afford the desired compounds.

Column Welch XB C18 2.1 50 mm 5 m 50 C. mobile phase A 0.0375 TFA in water mobile phase B 0.01875 TFA in acetonitrile. Initial gradient 1 B 0.60 mins 5 B 4.00 mins 100 B 4.30 mins 1 B 4.70 mins 1 B. Flow rate 0.8 mL min.

Column Welch XB C18 2.1 50 mm 5 m 50 C. mobile phase A 0.0375 TFA in water mobile phase B 0.01875 TFA in acetonitrile. Initial gradient 10 B 0.60 mins 10 B 4.00 mins 100 B 4.30 mins 10 B 4.70 mins 10 B. Flow rate 0.8 mL min.

Column Welch XB C18 2.1 50 mm 5 m 50 C. mobile phase A 0.05 NH4OH in water mobile phase B 100 acetonitrile. Initial gradient 5 B 0.50 mins 5 B 3.40 mins 100 B 4.20 mins 100 B 4.21 mins 5 B 4.70 mins 5 B. Flow rate 0.8 mL min.

To a 0.375M solution of Monomer B 200 L 75 umol in DMF was added a 0.375 M solution of Monomer A 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 19 2.00 L 75 mol in DMF. NMM 15.2 mg 150 mol was added followed by DMAP 15 mol . A 0.5M solution of EDCI 300 L 150 mol in DMF and a 0.05M solution of HOBt 300 L 150 mol in DMF was added and the reaction shaken at 50 C. for 1.5 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue purified using preparative HPLC to afford the desired compounds.

Column Welch XB C18 2.1 50 mm 5 m 50 C. mobile phase A 0.0375 TFA in water mobile phase B 0.01875 TFA in acetonitrile. Initial gradient 1 B 0.60 mins 5 B 4.00 mins 100 B 4.30 mins 1 B 4.70 mins 1 B. Flow rate 0.8 mL min.

Column Welch XB C18 2.1 50 mm 5 m 50 C. mobile phase A 0.0375 TFA in water mobile phase B 0.01875 TFA in acetonitrile. Initial gradient 10 B 0.60 mins 10 B 4.00 mins 100 B 4.30 mins 10 B 4.70 mins 10 B. Flow rate 0.8 mL min.

Column Welch XB C18 2.1 50 mm 5 m 50 C. mobile phase A 0.05 NH4OH in water mobile phase B 100 acetonitrile. Initial gradient 5 B 0.50 mins 5 B 3.40 mins 100 B 4.20 mins 100 B 4.21 mins 5 B 4.70 mins 5 B. Flow rate 0.8 mL min.

A mixture of 2 5 bromopyridin 2 yl N 4 1 propan 2 yl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 2 yl acetamide Example 237 40 mg 0.083 mmol zinc cyanide 29 mg 0.251 mmol Pd dba 3 mg 0.003 mmol and DPPF 7.5 mg 0.013 mmol in DMF 1 mL was heated to 100 C. under microwave irradiation for 25 minutes. The reaction was cooled and diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was collected washed with water brine dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using preparative TLC eluting with 5 MeOH in DCM to afford the LCMS 5 minute run Rt 2.78 minutes MS m z 425 M H 

Prepared according to Method 3 using 2 5 bromoyridin 2 yl N 5 1 propan 2 yl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 3 yl acetamide Example 239 . The residue was purified using preparative HPLC.

Prepared according to Method 3 using 2 5 bromopyridin 2 yl N 2 1 propan 2 yl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonylpyridin 4 yl acetamide Example 238 . The residue was purified using preparative HPLC.

To a 0.2M solution of 2 aminopyridin 4 yl 1 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 ylmethanone in THF Preparation 21 500 L 100 umol was added the required acid 130 mol followed by T3P 300 mol . DIPEA 350 umol was then added and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue dissolved in 10 HCl in dioxane 1 mL and stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. After concentration in vacuo the residue was purified using preparative HPLC to afford the desired compound.

Column X Bridge C18 OBD 50 19 mm 5 m mobile phase A 0.05 Ammonia in water pH 10.5 mobile phase B Acetonitrile. Initial gradient 10 B 1 min 20 B 7 mins 95 B 8 mins 95 B 8.5 mins 10 B 10 mins 10 B. Flow rate 20 mL min.

To a 0.2M solution of 2 Aminopyridin 4 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone in THF Preparation 20 500 L 100 umol was added the required acid 130 mol followed by T3P 300 mol . DIPEA 350 mol was then added and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue was purified using preparative HPLC to afford the desired compound.

Column XBridge C18 ODB 50 19 mm 5 um mobile phase A 0.05 Ammonia in water pH 10.5 mobile phase B Acetonitrile. Initial gradient 10 B 1 min 20 B 7 mins 95 B 8 mins 95 B 8.5 mins 10 B. Flow rate 20 mL min.

To a 0.2M solution of 2 Aminopyridin 4 yl 1 oxetan 3 yl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone in THF Preparation 24 500 L 100 umol was added a 0.26M solution of the appropriate acetic acid in THF 500 L 130 mol DIPEA 130 mol EDCI 130 mol followed by HOBt 100 mol and the reaction was stirred under microwave irradiation for 30 minutes at 70 C. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and purified using preparative HPLC to afford the title compound.

Column X Bridge C18 OBD 50 19 mm 5 m mobile phase A 0.05 Ammonia in water pH 10.5 mobile phase B Acetonitrile. Initial gradient 5 B Final gradient 45 B. Flow rate 20 mL min.

To a mixture of 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 7 fluoro 1 2 hydroxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 2 Preparation 26 50 mg 0.159 mmol and 4 chlorophenylacetic acid 27.2 mg 0.159 mmol in pyridine 1 mL was added HATU 121 mg 0.31 mmol and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution brine dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using preparative TLC eluting with 7 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound 28 mg .

The following Examples were prepared according to Method M using 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 7 fluoro 1 2 hydroxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 26 Enantiomer 1 or 2 and purified using preparative TLC eluting with 5 7 MeOH in DCM or EtOAc.

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 using 2 Aminopyridin 4 yl 1 oxetan 3 yl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 24 and 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetic acid Preparation 95 at 50 C. for 3 hours. Purified using preparative HPLC.

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 using 4 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid and 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 7 fluoro 1 2 hydroxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 2 Preparation 26 .

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 using 4 chlorophenylacetic acid and 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 7 fluoro 1 2 hydroxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 1 Preparation 26 .

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 using 4 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid and 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 7 fluoro 1 2 hydroxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 1 Preparation 26 .

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 using 5 chloropyridin 2 yl acetic acid Preparation 80 and 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 7 fluoro 1 2 hydroxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 2 Preparation 26 . The residue was purified using preparative TLC eluting with 5 MeOH in EtOAc.

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 using 3 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid and 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 7 fluoro 1 2 hydroxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 2 Preparation 26 . The residue was purified using preparative TLC eluting with 5 MeOH in EtOAc.

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 using 4 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetic acid Preparation 74 and 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 7 fluoro 1 2 hydroxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 2 Preparation 26 . The residue was purified using preparative TLC eluting with 5 MeOH in EtOAc. LCMS 5 minute run Rt 2.85 minutes MS m z 491 M H 

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 using 5 methyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetic acid and 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 7 fluoro 1 2 hydroxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 2 Preparation 26 . The residue was purified using preparative TLC eluting with 5 MeOH in EtOAc.

Prepared according to method described for Method 1 Example 19 using 4 aminopyridin 2 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 1 Preparation 30 and 3 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid. The residue was partitioned between EtOAc and saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution the organic layer collected washed with brine dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in THF and 10 HCl in dioxane was added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and purified using preparative HPLC to afford the title compound.

Prepared according to Example 229 using 4 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid. LCMS 5 minute run Rt 2.99 minutes MS m z 483 M H 

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 using 4 aminopyridin 2 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 27 and 4 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid at 70 C. The residue was purified over neutral alumina eluting with 50 EtOAc in hexane followed by acid deprotection using 10 HCl in dioxane at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and purified using preparative HPLC to afford the title compound.

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 using 4 aminopyridin 2 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 27 and 3 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid at 70 C. The residue was purified over neutral alumina eluting with 50 60 EtOAc in hexane followed by acid deprotection using 10 HCl in dioxane at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and purified using preparative HPLC to afford the title compound.

Prepared according to Method M Example 206 at 60 C. for 16 hours followed by 70 C. for a further 16 hours using 2 aminopyridin 4 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 20 and 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetic acid Preparation 95 . Purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 5 7 MeOH in DCM.

Prepared according to Method 1 Example 19 using 4 aminopyridin 2 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 27 at 60 C. The residue was purified using preparative HPLC to afford the deprotected title compound.

Prepared according to Method 1 Example 19 using 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 28 3 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid and DIPEA. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 80 EtOAc in hexane followed by acid deprotection using 10 HCl in dioxane at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and purified using preparative HPLC to afford the title compound.

Prepared according to Method 1 Example 19 using 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 28 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetic acid Preparation 78 and DIPEA. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 80 EtOAc in hexane followed by acid deprotection using 10 HCl in dioxane at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and purified using preparative HPLC to afford the title compound.

To a solution of 5 bromopyridin 2 yl acetic acid Preparation 83 92 mg 0.427 mmol and 2 aminopyridin 4 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 20 120 mg 0.427 mmol in THF 3 mL was added propylphosphonic anhydride 786 uL 1.281 mmol and triethylamine 151 uL 1.99 mmol and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution brine dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using preparative TLC eluting with 5 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound.

Prepared according to the method described for Example 237 using 4 Aminopyridin 2 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 3 yl methanone Preparation 22 . Purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 5 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound.

Prepared according to the method described for Example 237 using 5 aminopyridin 3 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 19 . Purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with EtOAc to afford the title compound. LCMS 5 minute run Rt 3.02 minutes MS m z 478 M H 

Prepared according to Method 1 Example 19 followed by Method Y Example 1 using 5 Amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 29 and 4 cyclopropyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetic acid Preparation 94 .

To a solution of 5 amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 29 35 mg 79 mol 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetic acid 21.8 mg 106 mol and DIPEA 48.94 L 277 mol in THF 3 mL T3P 166 L 277 mol was added and the mixture stirred at 25 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated under reduced pressure the residue partitioned between water and ethyl acetate the organic extracts washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as a white solid. 91 45 mg .

To a solution of 5 amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 29 35 mg 70 mol 4 chloro phenyl acetic acid 13 mg 79 mol and DIPEA 31 L 237 mol in THF 3 mL T3P 151 L 237 mol was added and the mixture stirred at 25 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated under reduced pressure the residue partitioned between water and ethyl acetate the organic extracts washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as an off white solid 74 35 mg .

To a solution of 5 amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 29 35 mg 79 mol 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetic acid 21.8 mg 106 mol and DIPEA 48.94 L 277 mol in THF 3 mL T3P 160 L 277 mol was added and the mixture stirred at 25 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated under reduced pressure the residue partitioned between water and ethyl acetate the organic extracts washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as a white solid 87 43 mg .

To a solution of 5 amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 29 35 mg 79.1 mol 4 trifluoromethyl pyrazol 1 yl acetic acid 20.7 mg 106.9 mol and DIPEA 48 L 276.8 mol in THF 3 mL T3P 166 L 276.8 mol was added and the mixture stirred at 25 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated under reduced pressure the residue partitioned between water and ethyl acetate the organic extracts washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as an off white solid 71 35 mg .

To a solution of 5 amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 29 35 mg 79.1 mol 5 chloro pyridin 2 yl acetic acid 18.8 mg 106.9 mol and DIPEA 48 L 276.8 mol in THF 3 mL T3P 0.16 L 276.8 mol was added and the mixture stirred at 25 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated under reduced pressure the residue partitioned between water and ethyl acetate the organic extracts washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as an off white solid 64 30 mg .

To a solution of 5 amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 29 35 mg 79 mol 3 cyclopropyl pyrazol 1 yl acetic acid 17.74 mg 106 mol and DIPEA 48.97 L 277 mol in THF 3 mL T3P 166 L 277 mol was added and the mixture stirred at 25 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated under reduced pressure the residue partitioned between water and ethyl acetate the organic extracts washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as an off white solid 91 42 mg that was taken directly on to the next step.

To a solution of 5 amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 29 35 mg 79.1 mol 5 methyl 3 trifluoromethyl pyrazol 1 yl acetic acid 22 mg 106.9 mol and DIPEA 48 L 276.8 mol in THF 3 mL T3P 166 L 276.8 mol was added and the mixture stirred at 25 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated under reduced pressure the residue partitioned between water and ethyl acetate the organic extracts washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as an off white solid 70 37 mg .

To a solution of 5 amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 28 50 mg 0.117 mmol 5 chloro pyridin 2 yl acetic acid 30 mg 0.176 mmol and DIPEA 72.76 L 0.411 mmol in THF 5 mL T3P 261.8 L 0.411 mmol was added and the mixture stirred at 25 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was evaporated under reduced pressure the residue partitioned between water and ethyl acetate the organic extracts washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate evaporated in vacuo and triturated with pentane ether to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 66 45 mg .

Prepared according to the method described for Method M Example 206 using 4 aminopyridin 2 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 27 and 4 cyanophenylacetic acid. The residue was purified using silca gel column chromatography eluting with EtOAc to afford the title compound that was taken directly on to the next step.

Prepared according to the method described for Method M Example 206 using 4 aminopyridin 2 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 27 and 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetic acid Preparation 74 . The residue was purified using alumina eluting with 2 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound.

Prepared according to the method described for Method M Example 206 using 4 aminopyridin 2 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 27 and 4 Trifluoromethyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetic acid Preparation 90 . The residue was purified using alumina eluting with 3 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound.

Prepared according to Method Z Preparation 8 using 5 Amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation TT and 4 cyanophenylacetic acid.

Prepared according to Method Z Preparation 8 using 5 Amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 28 and 4 trifluoromethyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetic acid Preparation 90 .

Prepared according to Method Z Preparation 8 using 5 Amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 28 and 4 isopropyl 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetic acid. LCMS 5 minute run Rt 3.32 minutes MS m z 576 M H 

Prepared according to Method Z Preparation 8 using 5 Amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 28 and 4 cyclopropyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetic acid Preparation 94 .

Prepared according to Method Z Preparation 8 using 5 Amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 28 and 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl acetic acid Preparation 82 .

Prepared according to Method Z Preparation 8 using 4 aminopyridin 2 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 30 and 5 chloropyridin 2 yl acetic acid Preparation 80 .

Prepared according to Method Z Preparation 8 using 4 aminopyridin 2 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 30 and 3 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid.

To a mixture of 5 bromopyridin 3 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 37 4.3 g 12.5 mmol in aqueous 880 ammonia 65 mL was added CuSO.5HO 936 mg 3.75 mmol and the reaction was heated at 130 C. in an autoclave for 18 hours. The reaction was extracted into DCM and the organic layer collected filtered dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified through alumina eluting with 1 3 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound as a white solid 2.1 g 60 .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 19 using 2 chloropyridin 4 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 38 at 160 C. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and then extracted with DCM 500 mL 6 . The combined organic phases were washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with DCM petroleum ether from 1 10 to 2 1 to afford the title compound as a light yellow solid 6.2 g 43 .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 19 using 2 bromopyridin 4 yl 1 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 ylmethanone Preparation 40 .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 19 using 4 bromopyridin 2 yl 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 3 yl methanone Preparation 39 . The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 60 EtOAc in heptanes to afford the title compound as a light yellow solid 1.4 g 57 .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 27 using 5 diphenylmethylene amino pyridin 3 yl 7 fluoro 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 34 . Taken on directly to the next step.

Isopropyl magnesium chloride 8.16 mL 1.28 mmol 2M in diethyl ether was added to 3 iodo 1 oxetan 3 yl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 53 4.45 g 14.8 mmol in THF 90 mL at 0 C. under nitrogen. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour then a solution of 2 diphenylmethylene amino N methoxy N methylisonicotinamide Preparation 51 5.12 g 14.8 mmol in THF 30 mL was added dropwise at 0 C. The mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred at this temperature for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 200 mL and extracted with DCM MeOH 95 5 7 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 0 5 MeOH in DCM followed by a second purification by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 30 50 EtOAc in DCM. The residue was dissolved in THF 90 mL and 0.5M HCl 90 mL was added followed by stirring at room temperature for 30 minutes. The reaction was quenched by the addition of 1N NaOH to pH 6 7 and the mixture eluted through an SCX cartridge washing through with MeOH followed by ammonia in MeOH 300 mL 2M solution . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo azeotroping with toluene. The residue was dissolved in DCM MeOH 90 10 20 mL and poured into diethyl ether 1000 mL to precipitate a white solid. After filtering the white solid was dried to afford the title compound.

To a solution of 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl 5 diphenylmethylene amino pyridin 3 ylmethanone Enantiomer 1 Preparation 33 150 mg 0.260 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added TFA 0.2 mL and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction was purified directly by preparative HPLC to afford the title compound 40 mg 52 .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparations 19 and 37 using 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 7 fluoro 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Enantiomer 1 Preparation 58 in NMP.

To a solution of 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl 4 diphenylmethylene amino pyridin 2 ylmethanone Preparation 35 1.4 g 2.38 mmol in THF 3 mL was added a 1M solution of citric acid 2.5 g 11.9 mmol and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. A 10 aqueous solution of potassium carbonate was added carefully and the mixture extracted into EtOAc 3 50 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. To the residue was added DCM and a solid precipitated that was filtered and dried. The mother liquors were purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 100 heptanes to 100 EtOAc to 5 MeOH in EtOAc to afford further material. The solids were combined to afford the title compound 70 710 mg .

To a solution of 5 bromopyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 43 643 mg 1.32 mmol in NMP 1 mL was added CuO 18.9 mg 0.132 mmol and 880 ammonia 6 mL and the reaction heated to 80 C. in a Reactivial for 18 hours followed by an additional 18 hours at 90 C. The reaction was cooled and partitioned between water 15 mL and EtOAc 20 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted twice with EtOAc 2 20 mL the organic layers combined dried and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 50 50 DCM EtOAc to 80 20 EtOAc MeOH to afford the title compound as a yellow gum 320 mg 57 .

To a solution of 5 benzhydrylidene amino pyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 36 1 g 1.65 mmol in THF 80 mL citric acid 30 mL 1 M was added at room temperature and stirred for 4 hours then quenched with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate evaporated in vacuo to afford the crude compound purified by column chromatography over alumina gradient of DCM Methanol 98 2 to 97 3 to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 69 500 mg .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 19 using 4 bromopyridin 2 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 1 Preparation 42 at 100 C. for 20 hours. Purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 6 8 MeOH in DCM. The residue was then re protected as the TBDMS ether according to the method described for Preparation 55. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 80 90 EtOAc in hexane.

To a solution of di tert butyl 5 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl carbonyl 2 methoxypyridin 3 ylimidodicarbonate Preparation 32 250 mg 0.5 mmol in DCM 2.5 mL at 0 C. was added TFA 0.75 mL dropwise and the reaction stirred warming to room temperature for 5 hours. The reaction was basified by the addition of saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution and extracted into DCM 3 30 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 5 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound.

To a solution of 3 iodo 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 45 250 mg 0.875 mmol in ether 5 mL at 78 C. was added nBuLi 2.3M in hexane 0.38 mL 0.875 mmol and the reaction stirred at this temperature for 30 minutes. A solution of di tert butyl 2 methoxy 5 methoxy methyl carbamoyl pyridin 3 ylimidodicarbonate Preparation 69 300 mg 0.729 mmol in ether 2 mL was added and the reaction continued to stir at this temperature for another 30 minutes. The reaction was warmed to room temperature for 2 hours before being quenched by the addition of saturated ammonium chloride solution. The reaction was extracted into EtOAc 3 15 mL the combined organic layers were washed with water 15 mL brine 15 mL dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using preparative TLC eluting with EtOAc DCM 50 50 to afford the title compound and taken on to the next step directly.

To a solution of 5 bromopyridin 3 yl 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Enantiomer 1 Preparation 41 3.2 g 0.067 mol in toluene 90 mL was added tBuXphos 785 mg 0.0018 mol NaOtBu 605 mg 0.0018 mol benzophenone imine 1.34 g 0.0074 mol and Pd dba and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was filtered through celite and the filtrate extracted into EtOAc. The organic layer was collected washed with brine dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 50 EtOAc in heptanes to afford the title compound 1.3 g 33 .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 36 using 3 bromo 7 fluoro 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 46 and 5 diphenylmethylene amino N methoxy N methylnicotinamide Preparation 52 . Taken on directly to the next step.

To a suspension of NaOtBu 500 mg 5.2 mmol and 1 2 tert butyl methyl silyl oxyl 1 1 dimethylethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl 4 chloropyridin 2 yl methanone Preparation 44 1.65 g 3.71 mmol in DME 5 mL was added a solution of palladium acetate 41.8 mg 0.186 mmol and R 1 SP 2 dicyclohexylphosphino ferrocenyl ethyldi tert butylphosphine 103 mg 0.186 mmol in DME 2 mL followed by a solution of benzophenone imine 808 mg 4.46 mmol in DME 2 mL . The reaction was degassed and heated to 80 C. for 30 minutes. The reaction was cooled filtered through celite and partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic layer was collected dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 100 heptanes to 100 EtOAc to afford the title compound as a brown oil 1.4 g 64 .

To a stirring solution of 1 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silyloxy 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 7 fluoro 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 73 3 g 6.69 mmol in dry ether 100 mL at 78 C. n BuLi 3.9 mL 1.84M 7.17 mmol was added and stirred for 30 minutes. Then 5 benzhydrylidene amino N methoxy N methyl nicotinamide Preparation 52 2.31 g 6.69 mmol in dry ether 10 mL was added drop wise for 5 min. After 1 hr reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo to afford the crude compound purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with Ethyl acetate Hexane 30 70 to 35 65 to afford the title compound as a light red solid 25 1 g .

To a mixture of 3 iodo 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 45 13 g 45.43 mmol in anhydrous diethyl ether 120 mL at 78 C. was added nBuLi 28.69 mL 54.5 mmol dropwise under nitrogen. After stirring at this temperature for 30 minutes 5 bromo N methoxy N methylnicotinamide 11.13 g 45.43 mmol in diethylether 10 mL was added dropwise before warming the reaction to room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution extracted into EtOAc the organic layer collected dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 80 90 EtOAc in hexanes to afford the title compound as a yellow solid.

To a mixture of 2 chloropyridin 4 yl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 3 yl methanone Preparation 49 34 g 0.13 mol in DMF 700 mL was added CsCO 65 g 0.2 mol and 2 iodopropane 34 g 0.2 mol at room temperature and the reaction stirred for 18 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate from 10 1 to 1 1 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 7.7 g 23.6 .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 37 using 4 bromo N methoxy N methyl pyridine 2 carboxamide.

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 37 using 2 bromo N methoxy N methylisonicotinamide and 3 iodo 1 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 50 .

To a solution of 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 55 16 g 38.6 mmol in THF 340 mL was added iPrMgCl 23.2 mL 46.3 mmol 2M solution in THF dropwise at 0 C. After stirring at this temperature for 1 hour a solution of 5 bromo N methoxy N methylnicotinamide 11.4 g 46.3 mmol in THF 40 mL was added slowly to the reaction. The reaction was warmed at room temperature and stirred for 18 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water 200 mL and the solvents removed in vacuo. The residue was diluted with water 400 mL extracted into DCM MeOH 95 5 200 mL five times the organic layers collected washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with a gradient of 10 50 EtOAc in DCM to afford the title compound 18.3 g 46.5 .

The racemate was separated using the preparative chiral HPLC method in Preparation 42 to afford the separate enantiomers.

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 37 using 1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 methylethyl 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 55 and 4 bromo N methoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide. Purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 35 40 EtOAc in hexane.

The racemate was separated using preparative chiral HPLC CHIRALPAK IC 4.6 250 mmm 5 um eluting with hexane EtOH DEA 80 20 0.1 at a flow rate of 1 mL min to afford the separate enantiomers.

1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 65 1.81 g 4.20 mmol was dissolved in THF 25 mL and the solution was degassed and cooled to 5 C. 2M PrMgCl in THF 2.52 mL 5.05 mmol was added dropwise and the reaction stirred at this temperature for 45 minutes. A solution of 5 bromo N methoxy N methylnicotinamide 1.24 g 5.05 mmol in THF 3 mL was added dropwise and the reaction warmed to room temperature for 4.5 hours. The reaction was partitioned between saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 20 mL and EtOAc 30 mL . The organic layer was collected dried and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 100 DCM to 50 50 DCM EtOAc to afford the title compound as a colourless oil 1.05 g 62 .

1 2 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 1 dimethylethyl 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 65 3.99 g 9.06 mmol was dissolved in THF 75 mL and the solution was degassed and cooled to 5 C. 2M PrMgCl in THF 5.44 mL 10.9 mmol was added dropwise and the resulting yellow solution stirred at this temperature for 45 minutes. A solution of 4 chloro N methoxy M methylpicolinamide 2.18 g 10.9 mmol in THF 20 mL was added dropwise and the reaction allowed to warm to room temperature for 4.5 hours. The reaction was partitioned between saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 30 mL and EtOAc 50 mL the organic layer was collected dried and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 0 90 EtOAc in DCM to afford the title compound as an orange oil 2.37 g 59 . Taken on to the next step directly.

To a suspension of 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 47 82 g 340 mmol and cesium carbonate 164 g 504 mmol in DMF 650 mL was added 2 iodopropane 30.7 mL 307 mmol dropwise over 25 minutes at room temperature and the reaction was stirred for 6 hours. The reaction was poured into water 500 mL stirred for 10 minutes and extracted into EtOAc 4 350 mL . The organic layers were combined washed with brine passed through a phase separation cartridge and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with DCM followed by 50 EtOAc in DCM to afford the title compound as a pale brown gum 93 g 61 .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 45 using 3 bromo 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 48 2 iodopropane and potassium carbonate as base. Purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 100 heptanes to 50 50 Heptane EtOAc to afford the title compound 845 mg 56 .

To a solution of 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 20 g 170 mmol in DMF 100 mL was added KOH 33.2 g 593 mmol and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes. A solution of iodine 47.3 g 186 mmol in DMF 100 mL was added at 0 C. and the reaction allowed to warm to room temperature over 1.5 hours. The reaction was poured onto an aqueous solution of NaSO 17.2 g and ammonium hydroxide 35 170 mL in water 2.5 L . The resulting precipitate was filtered washed with water and dried to afford the title compound 33.5 g 81 .

To a solution of 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 17.0 g 0.14 mol in 1 2 dichloroethane 500 mL was added AlCl 38.3 g 0.29 mol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes. A solution of 2 chloroisonicotinoyl chloride 30.0 g 0.17 mol in 1 2 dichloroethane 100 mL was added and the reaction heated to 70 C. Further AlCl 38.3 g 0.29 mol was added and the reaction was stirred at this temperature for 18 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and then to the mixture was added MeOH 150 mL dropwise. 1M aqueous NaOH solution was added until pH 8. The mixture was filtered the filter cake was washed with a mixture of 1 3 isopropanol chloroform and the filtrate was extracted with a mixture of 1 3 isopropanol chloroform 300 mL 6 . The combined organic phases were washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure to give the title compound 44 g as a black solid which was used in next step directly.

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 45 using 2 2 bromoethoxyl tetrahydro 2H pyran.

Benzophenone imine 2.17 g 12.0 mmol was added to 2 bromo N methoxy N methylisonicotinamide 2.45 g 10.0 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 458 mg 0.50 mmol 2 di tert butylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl 552 mg 1.30 mmol and sodium t butoxide 2.40 g 25.0 mmol in toluene 40 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and filtered through Arbocel . The filtrate was washed with water 100 mL then the organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated in vacua. The crude material was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with heptane EtOAc 100 0 to 30 70 to afford the title compound as an orange gum 71 2.44 g .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 51 using 5 bromo N methoxy N methylnicotinamide and benzophenone imine.

To a solution of 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 47 2 g 8.2 mmol in DMF 150 mL was added cesium carbonate 24 g 73.8 mmol and the mixture stirred for 20 minutes at room temperature. A solution of trifluoromethanesulfonic acid oxetan 3 yl ester Preparation 54 8.45 g 41 mmol in DMF 15 mL was added and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 0 5 MeOH in DCM to give a solid that was further washed with EtOAc Heptane to afford the title compound. 4.46 g 36 .

To a solution of oxetan 3 ol 3 g 41 mmol and pyridine 4.97 mL 61.5 mmol in DCM 150 mL was added trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride slowly dropwise at 50 C. and the reaction was stirred at 30 C. for 2 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of aqueous 1N HCl solution 50 mL and the mixture extracted with DCM 100 mL thrice. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a yellow oil.

To a solution of 2 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 1 yl propan 1 ol Preparation 56 11.5 g 38.1 mmol and imidazole 6.48 g 95.2 mmol in DCM 300 mL was added a solution of TBDMSCl 6.95 g 45.7 mmol in DCM 50 mL dropwise at 0 C. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 1.5 hours. To the reaction was added water 500 mL and DCM 200 mL the organic layer collected dried over MgSO4 and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 0 10 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound 15 g 100 .

To a solution of 2 3 iodo pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 1 yl propionic acid methyl ester Preparation 57 18.1 g 54.8 mmol in EtOH 300 mL was added 2M lithium borohydride solution in THF 63.1 mL 126 mol at 0 C. The reaction was stirred at this temperature for 30 minutes before warming to room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water 300 mL at 0 C. with stirring for 1 hour. The EtOH was removed in vacuo and the resulting residue diluted further with water 600 mL followed by extraction into 5 MeOH in DCM 250 mL . The organic layer was collected dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 0 5 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound 12 g 73 .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 45 using 2 bromo propionic acid methyl ester. Purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 0 10 MeOH in DCM.

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 55 using 2 7 fluoro 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 1 yl propan 1 ol Enantiomer 1 Preparation 59 . The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 50 EtOAc in Heptane.

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 56 using methyl 2 7 fluoro 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 1 yl propanoate Preparation 60 for 4 hours at 0 C. The reaction was quenched by the addition of aqueous ammonium chloride solution extracted into EtOAc 3 50 mL dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using chiral preparative HPLC CHIRALPAK AD H 4.6 250 5 um eluting with 90 heaxane 10 EtOH at a flow rate of 1.0 mL min to afford two enantiomers.

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 45 using 2 bromo propionic acid methyl ester and 7 fluoro 3 iodo pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 61 . Purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 0 5 MeOH in DCM.

To a solution of 7 fluoro pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 62 5 g 36.76 mmol in anhydrous DMF 35 mL was added NIS 9 g 40.44 mmol and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction was diluted with water and EtOAc. The organic layer was collected washed with saturate aqueous NaHCOsolution brine dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 50 100 EtOAc in heptanes followed by 5 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound 5 g .

A mixture of 3 2 ethoxy vinyl 5 fluoro pyridin 4 ylamine Preparation 63 3.6 g 19.2 mmol and concentrated HCl 10 mL in EtOH 44 mL was heated to reflux for 4 hours before cooling and concentrating in vacuo. The residue was basified with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution extracted in DCM the organic layer collected dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 20 100 EtOAc in hexane to afford the title compound 1.7 g 

Ethoxyacetylene 7.9 mL 56.4 mmol was cooled to 0 C. and a solution of catecholborane 6.1 g 50.8 mmol in THF 90 mL was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature over 2 hours followed by heating to reflux for 2 hours. The reaction was cooled and 3 fluoro 5 iodo pyridin 4 ylamine Preparation 64 7 g 29.4 mmol was added as a solution in THF 20 mL . After purging with nitrogen for 20 minutes NaOH powder 3.52 g 88 mmol and Pd PPh 1 g 0.88 mmol were added and the reaction heated to reflux for 20 hours. The reaction was filtered through celite washed with EtOAc the organic layer collected washed with brine dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 50 EtOAc in hexane to afford the title compound 3.59 g 

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 63 using 4 amino 3 fluoropyridine at 80 C. for 48 hours. The organic layer was collected washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution NaSOsolution brine dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 10 30 EtOAc in hexane.

To a suspension of 2 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 1 yl 2 methylpropan 1 ol Preparation 66 3.86 g 12.2 mmol in DCM 50 mL was added imidazole 2.08 g 30.5 mmol followed by TBDMSCl 2.21 g 14.7 mmol and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was partitioned between water 30 mL and DCM 40 mL . The aqueous layer was washed twice with DCM 40 mL the organic layers combined dried and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 30 EtOAc in heptanes followed by 80 20 2 EtOAc MeOH NH3 to afford the title compound as a colourless oil 3.90 g 74 .

To a solution of methyl 2 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 1 yl 2 methylpropanoate Preparation 67 10.8 g 31.38 mmol in EtOH 100 mL was added sodium borohydride 2.37 g 62.8 mmol and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water 100 mL and the phases separated through a phase separation cartridge. The organic layer was concentrated in vacuo to afford and orange oil that was triturated with ether to afford an orange solid as the title compound 3.86 g 39 .

To a solution of 2 3 iodo pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 1 yl propionic acid methyl ester Preparation 57 13.1 g 39.7 mmol in THF 15 mL was added methyl iodide 2.96 mL 47.6 mmol followed immediately by a 1M solution of potassium tertbutoxide in THF 5.34 g 47.6 mmol and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 15 minutes. The reaction was quenched with water and the remaining THF removed in vacuo. The residue was extracted with EtOAc dried and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 5.1 g 37 .

Prepared according to Preparations 36 35 and 27 using 3 bromo 7 fluoro 1 isopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine Preparation 46 and 4 chloro N methoxy N methylpicolinamide. The compound was used directly in the next step.

To a solution of 5 bis tert butoxycarbonyl amino 6 methoxynicotinic acid Preparation 70 500 mg 1.358 mmol and DIPEA 730 uL 4.076 mmol in DMF 4 mL was added HATU 774 mg 2.038 mmol and N methoxy methylamine hydrochloride 198 mg 2.038 mmol and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction was partitioned between saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution and EtOAc the organic layer collected dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound that was used directly in the next step.

To a solution of the methyl 5 bis tert butoxycarbonyl amino 6 methoxynicotinate 1 g 2.61 mmol in THF 10 mL at 0 C. was added LiOH.HO 275 mg 6.54 mmol in water 2.5 mL and the reaction allowed to stir at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction was diluted with water 5 mL and extracted into DCM twice 2 10 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified to pH 5 with 10 citric acid solution and extracted into DCM 4 20 mL . The organic layers were collected washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound that was used directly in the next step.

To a stirred solution of 2 7 fluoro 3 iodo pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 1 yl propionic acid methyl ester 8 g 22.98 mmol in dry THF 80 mL was added Mel 1.85 mL 29.87 mmol and the flask was placed in a water bath. Potassium tert butoxide 1M in THF 29.87 mL 29.87 mmol was added over 10 minutes and the mixture was stirred for an additional 10 minutes. Then reaction was quenched with water and few drops of 0.2M HCl and then diluted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with water brine dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo. The crude material was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 0 20 EtOAc in Hexane to afford the title compound as light yellow solid 78 6.5 g .

2 7 Fluoro 3 iodo pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 1 yl 2 methyl propionic acid methyl ester Preparation 71 500 mg 1.38 mmol was taken in dry THF 3 mL and DIBAL H 25 solution in toluene 2 mL 3.03 mmol was added drop wise at 0 C. and stirred at the same temperature for 2 hours. The reaction was quenched with MeOH water 2N HCl at 0 C. and stirred for 15 minutes before being diluted with EtOAc and water. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo to obtain the title compound 65 that was used in the next step directly without any further purification.

To a solution of 2 7 fluoro 3 iodo pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 1 yl 2 methyl propan 1 ol Preparation 72 4.5 gm 13.47 mmol in DCM 90 mL were added 2 6 lutidine 3.91 mL 33.65 mmol and tert butyl dimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate 4.62 gm 17.51 mmol at 0 C. The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM. The organic layer was washed with water brine dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo. The crude material was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 10 12 EtOAc in Hexane to afford the title compound as off white solid 45 2.7 g .

Lithium hydroxide monohydrate 127 mg 3.03 mmol in water 0.5 mL was added to 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetic acid ethyl ester 250 mg 1.125 mmol in THF 5 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 hours then the reaction mixture volume was reduced to one third by evaporation in vacuo. The aqueous residue was acidified using aqueous HCl 2M to pH 5. The resulting off white solid was filtered collected and dried washed with ether to afford the title compound as a white solid 42 mg 19 .

Potassium carbonate 7.67 g 55.56 mmol was added to 3 cyclopropyl 1H pyrazole 2.0 g 18.52 mmol in dry DMF 20 mL at 25 C. and the mixture was stirred for 20 minutes. Ethyl bromoacetate 2.06 mL 18.52 mmol was added then the mixture was stirred for 2 days at room temperature. The reaction mixture was neutralized with aqueous HCl 1.0 M extracted with ether 40 mL and the organic extract was washed with brine 30 mL dried over sodium sulfate then evaporated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with hexane EtOAc 88 12 to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 42 1.50 g .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 74 using ethyl 3 cyclopropyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetate Preparation 75 . After acidifying to pH 4 with cHCl EtOAc followed by water was added. The organic layer was collected and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a white solid 83 4.06 g .

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 75 using 4 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole and tert butyl bromoacetate to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 24 1.32 g .

Trifluoroacetic acid 10 mL was added to tert butyl 4 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetate Preparation 77 1.3 g 5.2 mmol in dry DCM 10 mL and the mixture was stirred for 18 hours at 25 C. Then the mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was purified by trituration with diethyl ether pentane 1 9 2 mL to afford the title compound as a white solid 79 800 mg .

Cesium carbonate 71 g 218 mmol was added to 2 bromo 5 chloropyridine 14 g 73 mmol and diethyl malonate 22 mL 145 mmol in dry 1 4 dioxane 280 mL and the solution was degassed with argon for 30 minutes. Then copper I oxide 2.8 g 14.55 mmol and picolinic acid 3.6 g 29 mmol were added and the mixture was stirred in a sealed vessel at 130 C. for 24 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature quenched with water 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . The organic extracts were washed with water 200 mL brine 200 mL dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with EtOAc Hexane 92 8 to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 54 8.0 g .

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 74 using ethyl 5 chloropyridin 2 yl acetate Preparation 79 to afford the title compound as a brown solid 51 3.5 g .

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 79 using 2 bromo 5 fluoropyridine to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 20 5 g .

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 74 using ethyl 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl acetate Preparation 81 to afford the title compound as a brown solid 57 2.4 g .

To a solution of diethyl 5 bromopyridin 2 yl malonate Preparation 84 5.28 g 16.70 mmol in THF 50 mL was added a solution of LiOH 2.10 g 50.13 mmol in water 12.5 mL and the reaction was heated to 60 C. for 3 hours. The reaction was cooled and acidified to pH 3 4 with 2N HCl and diluted with 20 IPA in DCM. The organic layer was collected dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was triturated with hexane to afford the title compound.

To a suspension of 2 iodo 5 bromopyridine 2.0 g 7.06 mmol diethylmalonate 2.12 mL 14.12 mmol and cesium carbonate 6.88 g 21.18 mmol in dioxane 20 mL was added copper iodide 268 mg 1.41 mmol followed by picolinic acid 346 mg 2.82 mmol and the reaction was heated to 80 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was cooled filtered and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was diluted with EtOAc washed with water brine dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 2 EtOAc in hexanes to afford the title compound that was used directly in the next reaction.

A solution of cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride 104.5 g 1 mol in dichloromethane 170 mL was added dropwise to a solution of N hydroxysuccinimide 115 g 1 mol and TEA 111 g 1 mol in dichloromethane 170 mL at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 48 hours and a saturated NaHCOsolution 500 mL was added under stirring. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer washed with chloroform thrice. The combined organic layers were washed with a saturated NaHCOsolution 200 mL brine 200 mL dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford crude N cyclopropanecarboxysuccinimide.

NaHCO 252 g 3 mol was added to a solution of aspartic acid monoethyl ester hydrochloride 229 g 1 mol in water 1.7 L and a solution of the crude N cyclopropanecarboxysuccinimide 183 g 1 mol in dioxane 1.7 L was added dropwise at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours acidified with 4N HCl to pH 3 and subjected to extraction with ethyl acetate 5 500 mL . The extracts were combined washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give the title compound as a white crystalline substance 77 176 g .

DMAP 5 g 0.041 mol and acetic anhydride 306 g 3 mol were added to a suspension of 2 cyclopropylcarbonyl amino 4 ethoxy 4 oxobutanoic acid Preparation 85 229 g 1 mol in freshly distilled pyridine 1.5 L . The reaction was heated at 90 C. for 2 hours before concentrating in vacuo at 60 C. azeotroping with toluene. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 2 methanol in chloroform to afford the title compound 70 that was taken directly on to the next step.

Ethyl 3 Cyclopropylcarbonyl amino 4 oxopentanoate Preparation 86 22.7 g 0.1 mol was dissolved in dry pyridine 170 mL . POCl 46 g 0.3 mol was poured into this solution with cooling. The reaction was heated at 90 C. for 20 minutes and then rapidly cooled in an ice water mixture. The cooled solution was slowly poured into crushed ice 700 g stirred until the solution became homogeneous and neutralized with 20 aqueous KCOto pH 7. The aqueous was extracted with ethyl acetate the organic layer washed with brine and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with ethyl acetate hexane 1 1 to afford the ethyl ester intermediate in 73 yield.

An emulsion of this intermediate 20.9 g 0.1 mol in 10 KOH 100 mL was heated at 75 C. The reaction mixture was cooled acidified with 10 HCl to pH 3 and subjected to extraction with chloroform 3 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was recrystallized from ethyl acetate and vacuum dried to afford the title compound as a white crystalline solid 93 16.9 g .

Trifluoromethyl acetylene 22.0 g 0.234 mol in THF 210 mL was added to sodium ascorbate 2.77 g 14.0 mmol ethyl azidoacetate 27.1 g 0.210 mol and copper sulfate 4.76 mL 0.3 M in water in water 105 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 240 hours then evaporated in vacuo. The residue was extracted with EtOAc 500 mL and the organic phase was dried over magnesium sulfate then evaporated in vacuo.

Sodium hydroxide 7.32 g 0.183 mol in water 30 mL was added to the residue 32.7 g 0.146 mol in methanol 50 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 17 hours. The methanol was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was diluted with water 10 mL . Potassium hydrogen sulfate 26.6 g 0.195 mol in water 70 mL was added. The solution was evaporated in vacuo and the crude solid was purified by crystallisation using water to afford the title compound as a white solid 75 25.8 g .

Ethyl 4 chloroacetoacetate 20.0 g 122.0 mmol was added to cyclopropanecarboxamide 3.52 g 41.5 mmol in toluene 100 mL and 1 4 dioxane 100 mL . The mixture was refluxed at 120 C. for 17 hours then evaporated in vacuo. The crude solid was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 80 20 petroleum ether EtOAc to afford the title compound as a white solid 50 4.00 g .

Lithium hydroxide monohydrate 7.83 g 186.7 mmol was added to ethyl 2 cyclopropyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl acetate Preparation 91 7.00 g 35.9 mmol in THF 200 mL and water 100 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours then the reaction mixture volume was reduced to one third by evaporation in vacuo. The aqueous residue was acidified using aqueous 1M HCl then extracted with EtOAc 200 mL . The organic phase was evaporated in vacuo and the crude material was triturated with diethyl ether 100 mL to afford the title compound as a white solid 66 4.00 g .

Cyclopropylacetylene 15 g 0.116 mol ethyl azidoacetate 11.5 g 0.174 mol triethylamine 0.32 mL 2.33 mmol and copper iodide 442 mg 2.33 mmol in acetonitrile 100 mL were stirred at 25 C. for 18 hours. The mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between water 100 mL and ethyl acetate 100 mL . The organic phase was dried over sodium sulfate evaporated in vacuo and purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with EtOAc Hexane 40 60 to afford the title compound as a colorless liquid 95 21.6 g .

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 92 using ethyl 4 cyclopropyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl acetate Preparation 93 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 63 13.0 g .

Lithium diisopropylamide 13.8 mL 24.8 mmol 1.8M in THF was added to 4 methyl 2 trifluoromethyl benzonitrile 2.30 g 12.4 mmol in THF 20 mL at 78 C. and stirred for 5 minutes at 78 C. Excess solid carbon dioxide was added then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 17 hours. Saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 10.5 mL and EtOAc 20 mL was added and the aqueous layer was acidified with 1M HCl. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 15 mL and the combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a brown oil 88 2.52 g .

4 4 4 Trifluoro 3 oxo butyric acid ethyl ester 16 g 86.4 mmol was dissolved in acetic anhydride 33.6 g 329.6 mmol and triethyl orthoformate 38.4 g 260 mmol was added to the mixture. The resultant mixture was refluxed for 18 hours. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 20 g of 2 1 Ethoxy meth E ylidene 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 oxo butyric acid ethyl ester as crude.

This was taken in EtOH 50 mL and added to a suspension of cyclopropyl hydrazine hydrochloride 9.95 g 91.7 mmol and DIPEA 28.3 ml 166.7 mmol in EtOH 150 mL at 20 C. The resultant mixture was slowly warmed to room temperature and stirred for 16 hours. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and residue formed was partitioned between EtOAc 50 mL and water 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with 2N HCl 25 mL water 25 mL brine 25 mL dried NaSO and evaporated in vacuo. The crude material was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with EtOAc Hexane 5 95 to afford the title compound as an off white sticky solid 1.4 g 7 .

A solution of 1 cyclopropyl 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylic acid ethyl ester Preparation 96 1.4 g 5.64 mmol in dry toluene 25 mL was cooled to 78 C. and DIBAL H 11.8 mL of 1.2 M solution in toluene 14.1 mmol was added dropwise to it. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 2 hours and poured into 2N HCl 10 mL . This was stirred for a further 4 hours at room temperature followed by extraction with EtOAc 2 25 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with water 2 10 mL brine 10 mL dried NaSO and evaporated in vacuo to afford the title compound as off white solid 100 1.2 g .

A solution of 1 cyclopropyl 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanol Preparation 97 1.2 g 5.82 mmol in DCM 15 mL was cooled to 0 C. and thionyl chloride 0.85 mL 11.7 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours and diluted with DCM. The organic layer was washed with water brine and dried NaSO and evaporated in vacuo. The crude residue obtained was dissolved in dioxane 25 mL and water 25 mL and tetrabutyl ammonium bromide 1.38 g 4.28 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 minutes followed by the addition of KCN 1.28 g 19.82 mmol and resultant mixture was stirred for a further 16 hours at room temperature. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and washed with water 1 10 mL brine 1 10 mL dried NaSO and evaporated in vacuo. The crude material was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with Hexane EtOAc 10 90 to afford the title compound as light yellow solid 56 700 mg .

To a solution of 1 Cyclopropyl 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl acetonitrile Preparation 98 700 mg 3.25 mmol in EtOH 15 mL was added aqueous 1N NaOH 15 mL . The resulting solution was heated at 60 C. for 16 hours. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in water 10 mL and washed with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was acidified to pH5 using 1N HCl and extracted with 10 IPA in DCM 4 30 mL . The organic layer was dried NaSO and evaporated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a solid 85 650 mg .

To a suspension of hydrazine hydrochloride 10 g 147 mmol in EtOH 500 mL DIPEA 45.3 mL 267 mmol was added slowly at 20 C. and stirred for 10 minutes. Then 2 1 ethoxy meth E ylidene 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 oxo butyric acid ethyl ester Preparation 96 Step 1 32 g 133.33 mmol was added to above solution and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and residue was partitioned between EtOAc 200 mL and water 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 25 mL dried NaSO and evaporated in vacuo. The crude material was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with Hexane EtOAc 90 10 to afford the title compound as off white solid 43 13 g .

Cyclopropyl boronic acid 11 g 127 mmol Copper acetate 17.4 g 95.7 mmol Pyridine 17.7 g 223 mmol and triethylamine 22.4 mL 160 mmol were added successively to a solution of ethyl 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Preparation 100 6.63 g 31.9 mmol in THF 70 mL and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir at 60 C. for 36 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered over a celite bed and filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and diluted with EtOAc 200 mL . The organic layer was washed with 1N HCl 1 25 mL brine 1 25 mL and dried NaSO and evaporated in vacuo. The crude material was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with Hexane EtOAc 85 15 to afford the title compound as brown solid 29 2.3 g .

A solution of 1 Cyclopropyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylic acid ethyl ester Preparation 101 3.5 g 14.11 mmol in dry toluene 70 mL was cooled to 78 C. and DIBAL H 29.4 mL of a 1.2 M solution in toluene 35.3 mmol was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 2 hours and then poured into 2N HCl 25 mL followed by further stirring for 2 hours at room temperature. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with water 2 15 mL brine 15 mL and dried NaSO and evaporated in vacuo to afford the title compound as off white solid 100 3 g .

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 98 using 1 Cyclopropyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanol Preparation 102 to afford the title compound as yellow solid in 70 yield 2.2 g.

The title compound was prepared according to the method described for Preparation 99 using 1 Cyclopropyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl acetonitrile Preparation 103 to afford the title compound as a solid 79 1.9 g .

Diisobutylaluminium hydride 99 mL 120 mmol 1.2 M solution in toluene was added to ethyl 1 isopropyl 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate WO 2007071900 12 g 48 mmol in toluene 220 mL at 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 2 hours then poured into aqueous HCl 100 mL 2M . The mixture was stirred for 4 hours at room temperature then extracted with EtOAc 400 mL . The organic phase was washed with water 200 mL brine 200 mL and dried over sodium sulphate. The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a colourless oil 100 10.5 g .

Thionyl chloride 5.26 mL 72 mmol was added to 1 isopropyl 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanol Preparation 105 7.5 g 36 mmol in DCM 75 mL at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours. The mixture was diluted with DCM 30 mL and the organic phase was washed with water 75 mL brine 75 mL and dried over sodium sulphate. The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo to afford 4 chloromethyl 1 isopropyl 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 86 7 g .

Tetrabutyl ammonium bromide 7.95 gm 24.7 mmol was added to 4 chloromethyl 1 isopropyl 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 7 g 31 mmol in dioxane 75 mL and water 75 mL and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes. Potassium cyanide 7.42 g 114 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours at room temperature. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL then the organic phase was washed with water 100 mL brine 100 mL and dried over sodium sulphate. The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo and purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with hexane EtOAc 90 10 to afford the title compound as a white solid 100 7.00 g .

Aqueous sodium hydroxide 150 mL of a 1 M solution was added to 1 isopropyl 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl acetonitrile Preparation 106 6.2 g 28.6 mmol in EtOH 150 mL and the mixture was heated at 60 C. for 16 hours. The mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in water 50 mL then washed with EtOAc 100 mL . The aqueous phase was acidified to pH 5 using 1N HCl and extracted with 10 IPA in DCM 4 100 mL . The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a white solid in 75 yield 5.0 g.

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 99 using 1 Isopropyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl acetonitrile Preparation 109 .

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 98 using 1 Isopropyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanol Preparation 110 .

To a solution of 1 Isopropyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylic acid ethyl ester Preparation 111 10.2 g 40.76 mmol in toluene 200 mL at 78 C. was added DIBALH 85 mL 101.91 mmol dropwise and the reaction allowed to stir at this temperature for 2 hours. 2N HCl was added to quench the reaction followed by extraction into EtOAc. The organic layer was collected washed with water brine dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 8.3 g that was taken directly on to the next step.

Prepared according to Preparation 45 using 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylic acid ethyl ester Preparation 112 and isopropyl iodide. Taken directly on to the next step.

To a suspension of hydrazine hydrochloride 10 g 146.66 mmol in ethanol 500 mL at 20 C. was added DIPEA 45.3 mL 266.66 mmol followed by stirring at this temperature for 10 minutes. Ethyl 2Z 2 ethoxymethylene 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 oxobutanoate Preparation 113 32 g 133.33 mmol was added and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and diluted with EtOAc. The organic solution was washed with water dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 30 EtOAc in hexane to afford the title compound 13 g that was taken directly on to the next step.

To a solution of ethyl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 oxobutanoate 20 g 108.63 mmol in acetic anhydride 39 mL was added triethylorthoformate 54.2 mL 325.89 mmol and the reaction heated to reflux for 18 hours. The reaction was cooled concentrated in vacuo and used directly in the next step.

Ethyl 3 tert Butyl 1 2 methoxyethyl 1H 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl acetate Preparation 115 23.1 g 0.086 mol was dissolved in methanol 150 mL and 1.9N LiOH 68 mL 0.13 mol was added. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes and concentrated in vacuo at 30 C. Water 70 mL was added. The resulting mixture was washed with ether 3 100 mL and neutralized with titrated 2.6N HCl 49.6 mL 0.13 mol . The resulting precipitate was filtered washed with water hexane and dried to afford the title compound 16.54 g 80 .

Ethyl 3 tert Butyl 1H 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl acetate Preparation 116 27.4 g 0.13 mol and 1 bromo 2 methoxyethane 13.7 mL 0.143 mol was dissolved in DMF 400 mL . KCO 90.0 g 0.65 mol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 6 hours at 50 60 C. The reaction was cooled to room temperature diluted with water 400 mL and extracted with EtO 3 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 3 200 mL dried with NaSO and evaporated to afford a mixture of alkylated triazole residues. The mixture was separated using HPLC Luna 10 u 018 2 100 A 21.2 250 mm HO acetonitrile 30 40 to afford ethyl 3 tert Butyl 1 2 methoxyethyl 1H 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl acetate 23.14 g 66 .

Ethyl 3 2 2 Dimethylpropanoyl imino 3 ethoxypropanoate Preparation 117 40 g 0.165 mol was dissolved in methanol 250 mL and hydrazine hydrate 9.6 mL 0.196 mol was added at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 24 hours. The solvents concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in water 200 mL and the solution was extracted with chloroform 3 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried over MgSOand evaporated to afford the title compound 20.7 g 59 .

Ethyl 3 Ethoxy 3 iminopropanoate Hydrochloride Preparation 118 50 g 0.256 mol was suspended in dichloromethane 600 mL . The suspension was cooled to 15 C. and triethylamine 7.8 mL 0.56 mol followed by pivaloyl chloride 31.5 mL 0.256 mol were added. The reaction mixture was left for 18 hours at room temperature then washed with water dried over MgSO and evaporated. The residue was triturated with hexane. The resulting precipitate was filtered and dried to afford the title compound 44 g 70 . Taken directly on to the next step.

Dry gaseous HCl was passed through a mixture of ethyl cyanoacetate 18 g 0.185 mol and ethanol 9.3 mL in absolute ether 200 mL over 1 hour. After standing for 48 hours in a refrigerator the resulting precipitate was filtered off washed with anhydrous ether and dried to afford the title compound that was taken directly on to the next step 29 g 90 .

A mixture of ethyl 5 cyclopropyl 2 methoxymethyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl acetate Preparation 120 23.9 g 0.1 mol in 10 KOH 100 mL was stirred at 75 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was cooled and acidified with 10 HCl to pH 3 and extracted with chloroform 3 100 mL . The organic extract was dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in ether and crystallized in a refrigerator at 20 C. The precipitated crystals were separated by filtration washed with cold ether and vacuum dried to give the title compound as a white crystalline substance in a form of light plates 16.9 g 93.2 .

Ethyl 4 Cyclopropyl 3 methoxyacetyl amino 4 oxobutanoate Preparation 121 25.7 g 0.1 mol was dissolved in dry DMF 170 mL . POCl 46 g 0.3 mol was poured into this solution at 5 15 C. and the mixture was kept this temperature for 60 minutes. The resulting solution was slowly poured in portions into crushed ice 700 g and stirred until a homogeneous solution was obtained. The solution was neutralized with a 20 aqueous KCOsolution to pH 7 8. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic extract was washed with brine and concentrated in vacuo to give a dark brown liquid which was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with EtOAc Hexane 1 1 to afford the title compound as a colourless liquid 96 . Taken directly on to the next step.

DMAP 5 g 0.041 mol and cyclopropylcarbonyl anhydride 462.5 g 3 mol were added to a suspension of L N methoxyethyl aspartic acid monoethyl ester Preparation 122 229 g 1 mol in pyridine 1.5 L . The obtained mixture was kept at 90 C. for 2 hours concentrated to dryness at 60 C. and azeotroped with toluene to remove residual pyridine. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 60 EtOAc in hexane to afford the title compound 85 . Taken directly on to the next step.

NaHCO 252 g 3 mol was added to a solution of DL aspartic acid monoethyl ester hydrochloride 197.6 g 1 mol in water 1.7 L and a solution of 1 methoxyacetyl oxy pyrrolidine 2 5 dione Preparation 123 187 g 1 mol in dioxane 1.7 L was added dropwise at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours acidified with 4N HCl to pH 3 and subjected to extraction with chloroform 5 500 mL . The extract was washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give the title compound as a white crystalline solid 195.5 g 85 . Taken directly on to the next step.

A solution of methoxyacetyl chloride 108.5 g 1 mol in absolute dichloromethane 170 mL was added dropwise at 0 C. to a solution of N hydroxysuccinimide 115 g 1 mol and TEA 111 g 1 mol in dichloromethane 900 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 48 hours and a saturated NaHCOsolution 500 mL was added under stirring. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was subjected to extraction twice with chloroform. The combined organic extract was washed with saturated NaHCOsolution 200 mL brine 200 mL and dried over NaSO. The solution was concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 147.8 g 79 . Taken directly on to the next step.

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 74 using 5 isopropyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetic acid ethyl ester Preparation 125 in IMS.

Prepared according to the method described for Preparation 75 using 5 isopropyl 1H pyrazole and ethyl bromoacetate. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 4 1 hexane EtOAc. The title compound was isolated as the lower running minor product in 6 yield and taken directly on to the next step.

Prepared according to the analogous method described for Preparation 75 using 4 cyclopropyl 1H pyrazole Liebigs Annalen der Chemie 1984 4 649 followed by the method described for Preparation 76.

2 Methyl 3 pentanone 5 g 49.9 mmol and DMF DMA 10 mL 74.9 mmol were heated together in a sealed tube for 4 days. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo to afford an orange oil that was used directly in the next reaction 1.64 g 21 .

 1E 1 dimethylamino 2 4 dimethylpent 1 en 3 one Preparation 127 1.64 g 10.56 mmol was heated with hydrazine hydrate 5 mL at 100 C. for 3 hours. The reaction was allowed to cool and partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic layer was collected washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to afford an orange oil that was used directly in the next reaction 1.07 g 82 .

A suspension of 3 isopropyl 5 methyl 1H pyrazole Preparation 128 1.07 g 8.6 mmol ethylbromoacetate 1 mL 9.03 mmol and potassium carbonate 3.57 g 25.58 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc and washed with 1N HCl. The organic layer was collected washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica gel column chromatography eluting with 4 1 Hexane EtOAc to obtain two regioisomers 

A mixture of ethyl 3 isopropyl 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetate Preparation 129 571 mg 2.72 mmol and LiOH 342 mg 8.15 mmol in IMS 5 mL and water 4 mL was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The reaction was acidified with 2M HCl and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was collected washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a cream solid 328 mg 66 .

Prepared according to the analogous method described for Preparation 75 using 3 isopropyl 1H pyrazole and ethyl bromoacetate isolating the higher running peak as the desired isomer followed by the hydrolysis method of Preparation 74.

Isolated TRK Enzyme assays use the HTRF KinEASE TK kit Cisbio Cat 62TK0PEJ with recombinant His tagged cytoplasmic domains of each TRK receptor sourced from Invitrogen see table below . This activity assay measures the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues within a substrate from the HTRF kit which has been validated by Cisbio for a variety of tyrosine kinases including the TRK receptors.

0.5 mM stock solutions of test compounds are prepared and serially diluted in 100 DMSO. A standard curve using the compound of Example 135 disclosed in WO2005 116035 of 150 uM is also prepared on each test plate. High percentage effect HPE is defined by 150 uM using the compound of Example 135 as disclosed in WO2005 116035 and 0 effect ZPE is defined by 100 DMSO. Greiner low volume black plates containing 0.2 ul of serially diluted compound standard and HPE ZPE are created using the Bravo nanoliter dispenser.

1 enzyme buffer is prepared from 5 Enzymatic Buffer from the Cisbio KinEASE TK kit using MilliQ water. The buffer is then supplemented with 10 mM MgCI and 2 mM DTT both from Sigma . In the case of TRKB the buffer is also supplemented with 125 nM Supplement Enzymatic Buffer SEB from the Cisbio kit.

2 FAC of enzyme and 2 FAC ATP diluted in 1 complete enzyme buffer is incubated at room temperature for 20 minutes to preactivate the enzyme. Following this preactivation step 5 ul well of enzyme ATP mix is added using a Multidrop Micro to the assay plate spotted with 0.2 ul 100 DMSO compound. This is left for 20 mins at room temperature before adding 5 ul of 2 uM TK substrate Biotin from the Cisbio kit diluted in 1 enzyme buffer 1 uM FAC using the Multidrop Micro. The reaction is incubated at room temperature for the optimized assay reaction time see table . The reaction is stopped by adding 10 ul well HTRF Detection Buffer containing 0.25 uM Streptavidin XL665 0.125 uM FAC and 1 200 TK Antibody Cryptate using a Multidrop.

After the Detection Reagent addition plates are covered and incubated at room temperature for 60 minutes. HTRF signal is read using an Envision reader measured as a ratio of emissions at two different wavelengths 620 nm and 665 nm. Any compound that inhibits the action of the TRK kinase will have a lower fluorescence ratio value 665 620 nM than compounds which do not inhibit the TRK kinase. Test compound data are expressed as percentage inhibition defined by HPE and ZPE values for each plate. Percentage inhibition in the presence of test compound is plotted against compound concentration on a log scale to determine an ICfrom the resultant sigmoid curve.

Cell Based Assays were carried out using Cell lines from DiscoveRx utilising their PathHunter technology and reagents in an antagonist assay 

The assays are based upon DiscoveRx s proprietary Enzyme Fragment Complementation EFC technology. In the case of the TRK cell lines the enzyme acceptor EA protein is fused to a SH2 protein and the TRK receptor of interest has been tagged with a Prolink tag.

Upon neurotrophin binding the TRK receptor becomes phosphorylated and the tagged SH2 protein binds. This results in functional complementation and restored Galactosidase activity which is can be measured using the luminescent Galacton Star substrate within the PathHunter reagent kits.

Generally small molecule inhibitors bind to the kinase domain so are not competing with the neurotrophin agonist which binds to an extracellular site. This means that the ICis a good measure of affinity and should be unaffected by concentration neurotrophin stimulant.

Cryopreserved PathHunter cells are used from either in house produced batches or bulk batches bought directly from DiscoveRx. Cryopreserved cells are resuscitated spun 1000 rpm for 4 min to remove freezing media and resuspended in MEM 0.5 horse serum both Invitrogen to 5ecells ml. The cells are then plated using a Multidrop into Greiner white tissue culture treated plates at 20 ul well and incubated for 24 h at 37 C. 5 CO high humidity. On the day of the assay the cell plates are allowed to cool to room temperature for 30 min prior to the assay.

4 mM stock solutions of test compounds are prepared and serially diluted in 100 DMSO. A standard curve using the compound of Example 135 WO2005 116035 at a top concentration of 150 uM is also prepared on each test plate. High percentage effect HPE is defined by 150 uM of the compound of Example 135 WO2005 116035 and 0 effect ZPE is defined by 100 DMSO. Plates containing 1 ul of serially diluted compound standard and HPE ZPE are diluted 1 66 in assay buffer PBS minus Ca minus Mg with 0.05 pluronic F127 using a Wellmate. Using a Platemate Plus 5 ul of 1 66 diluted test compounds is then transferred to the cell plate and allowed to reach equilibrium by incubating for 30 min at room temperature before addition of agonist stimulus 10 ul well of 2 nM 0.571 nM FAC of the cognate neurotrophin Peprotech diluted in agonist buffer HBSS with 0.25 BSA . Final assay concentration of the test compounds is 8.66 M the compound of Example 135 WO2005 116035 FAC is 0.325 uM . The plates are left at room temperature for a further 2 hours before addition of 10 ul of the DiscoveRx PathHunter detection reagent made up by adding 1 part Galacton Star 5 parts Emerald II and 19 parts Cell Assay Buffer as per the manufacturer s instructions .

After reagent addition plates are covered and incubated at room temperature for 60 minutes. Luminescence signal is read using an Envision. Test compound data are expressed as percentage inhibition defined by HPE and ZPE values for each plate. Percentage inhibition in the presence of test compound is plotted against compound concentration on a log scale to determine an ICfrom the resultant sigmoid curve.

MDCK BCRP MDCK BCRP data may be collected according to the method described in A 96 Well Efflux Assay To Identify ABCG2 Substrates Using a Stably Transfected MDCK II Cell Line http pubs.acs.org doi full 10.1021 mp050088t Yongling Xiao Ralph Davidson Arthur Smith Dennis Pereira Sabrina Zhao John Soglia David Gebhard Sonia de Morais and David B. Duignan Mol. Pharm. 2006 3 1 pp 45 54.

MDCK MDR1 MDCK MDR1 data may be collected according to the method described in Are MDCK Cells Transfected with the Human MDR1 Gene a Good Model of the Human Intestinal Mucosa http www.springerlink.com content qfhqlqbr4fnp3khf fulltext.pdf Fuxing Tang Kazutoshi Horie and Ronald T. Borchardt Pharmaceutical Research Vol. 19 No. 6 June 2002.

Brain penetration may be measured according to the method described in Assessing brain free fraction in early drug discovery . Read K Braggio S. Expert Opinion Drug Metab Toxicol. 2010 6 3 337 344.

Below are TrkA ICdata generated using the PV3144 TrkA enzyme assay. Where more than one reading was taken the arithmetic mean is presented.

All publications cited in this application are each herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Although the invention has been described above with reference to the disclosed embodiments those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the specific experiments detailed are only illustrative of the invention. It should be understood that various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit of the invention.

