---

title: System and method for transmitting alerts and notifications to a user
abstract: A system for transmitting alerts and notifications to a user. The system includes a user wearable portable data communication unit configured to set a predetermined period of time and select a geographical area by using a mapping software integrated with the user wearable portable data communication unit for geo-fencing the selected geographical area, an alerting unit configured in the user wearable portable data communication unit to transmit notifications and alerts to predefined list of contacts on determining the crossing of the user from the selected geo-fence area and exceeding the predetermined time period set by the user and a web based server unit in communication with user wearable portable data communication unit through a data communication network configured to store the predefined list of contacts, threshold levels, frequency, way points, current location of the user and software versions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652965&OS=09652965&RS=09652965
owner: 
number: 09652965
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130930
---
The present disclosure generally relates to a user wearable portable data communication device. More particularly the present disclosure relates to system and method for transmitting alerts and notifications to a user.

Conventionally devices such as fitness watches heart rate monitors GPS enabled fitness monitors health monitors e.g. diabetic blood sugar testing units digital voice recorders pedometers altimeters and other conventional personal data capture devices are generally manufactured for conditions that occur in a single or small groupings of activities. Problematically though conventional devices do not provide effective solutions to users in terms of providing a comprehensive view of one s overall health or wellness as a result of a combined analysis of data gathered. This is a limiting aspect of the commercial attraction of the various types of conventional devices listed above generally if the number of activities performed by conventional personal data capture devices increases there is a corresponding rise in design and manufacturing requirements those results in significant consumer expense which eventually becomes prohibitive to both investment and commercialization.

Further often times people purchases diagnostic devices with sensors either in patch format or body worn or stand alone or fixed format and do not use them due to the monthly subscription costs thus making it a difficult value proposition for reducing the churn rates and for patient engagement customer retention to effectively provide service to the customer thus rewarding the user based on the usage and providing cash incentives based on the usage will lead to higher customer retention and patient engagement for the betterment of health. Customer can get rewards from providers like insurance companies monitoring companies hospitals pharmacies based on these rewards this automatic and continuous data from the user through the wearable device from the sensors will provide a value add to both the customer and provider.

Moreover these body worn devices may also include an impact responsive stopwatch which is designed to enable a person taking part in a sport to measure and record time without a risk of a violent fall and which is used in such a manner that the user gives an impact to the stopwatch by a striking action or the like to record or hold a split time at an intermediate point and to stop timing at a goal point. There is a possibility of the stopwatch receiving impacts from various causes whilst doing a sport. For example in a case where an impact responsive stopwatch of this kind is used in a skiing downhill race an impact caused by violent stock work or striking against a pole may result in recording of an erroneous split time or termination of timing before the actual goal point is reached due to misidentification of an intermediate point as a goal point may occur. Thus it is difficult to perform timing in accordance with one s intention.

Conventionally a battery operated panic alarm wristwatch having a watch and a band and audio transducer for producing an audio signal. A magnetic switch for activating the battery is disposed in the band and a hook and loop fastener is used for keeping the band closed. The use of hook and loop fasteners makes it easy to yank off the watchband during an attack such that when the watchband is opened a switch is closed and an alarm sounds. However by its very nature such a device does not maintain the activated alarm with the wearer in order to attract attention to the wearer. Further a personal security alarm combined with a wristwatch including a single exposed activation button on a large surface thereof to be easily activated by a person s finger or face a reset button is hidden on the underside of the device to require removal of a buckle fastener before resetting can be done. Thus the wristwatch band or any body worn device is not used for transmitting notifications or alerts to the predefined users based on the geographical location.

Furthermore there will be many instances where a user need to be notified to exit out of defined area within a span of time for safety and security purposes ignoring this could be life threatening too when such instances happen friends relatives first responders and care givers need to be alerted immediately there is no such system or device exists to help in these circumstances.

Often times when there is an application software change to the system user has to update manually upgrade by connecting through wired or wireless and manually initiating the device software upgrade. This could be tedious and time taking lack of real time configuration updates are the key when it s the matter of user safety and security.

Manufacturers often forget considering the visually and hearing impaired users when certain features are introduced into a device which are very valuable for these target customers. By making small changes to the offerings they produce tremendous benefit to these target customers.

In the light of aforementioned discussion there exists a need of a system and method for transmitting alerts and notifications to a user wearing a user wearable portable data communication unit.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it does not identify key critical elements of the disclosure or delineate the scope of the disclosure. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

A more complete appreciation of the present disclosure and the scope thereof can be obtained from the accompanying drawings which are briefly summarized below and the following detailed description of the presently preferred embodiments.

Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are directed towards a system for transmitting alerts and notifications to a user. According to a first aspect the system includes a user wearable portable data communication unit configured to set a predetermined period of time and select a geographical area by using a mapping software integrated with the user wearable portable data communication unit for geo fencing the selected geographical area.

According to the first aspect the system includes an alerting unit configured in the user wearable portable data communication unit determines the crossing of the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit from the selected geo fence area and exceeding the predetermined time period set by the user to transmit notifications and alerts to predefined list of contacts and to the corresponding user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit. The notifications alerts and indications are transmitted to the predefined list of contacts on determining the current geographical location of the user in accordance with the predetermined time period set to the user wearable portable data communication unit.

According to the first aspect the system includes a web based server unit in communication with user wearable portable data communication unit through a data communication network configured to store at least one of predefined list of contacts threshold levels frequency way points current location of the user and software versions to update the user wearable portable data communication unit with the latest settings. The latest settings comprising global positioning system sampling interval and data upload interval.

According to the first aspect the system includes a display unit configured in the user wearable portable data communication unit to display the geographical area selected by the user through mapping software integrated with the user wearable portable data communication unit.

According to a second aspect a method for transmitting alerts and notifications to a user is disclosed. According to the second aspect the method includes setting a predetermined period of time to a user wearable portable data communication unit by a user and selecting a geographical area displayed over the user wearable portable data communication unit by using a mapping software. The mapping software integrated with the user wearable portable data communication unit configured to fence the selected geographical area.

According to the second aspect the method includes transmitting notifications to predefined list of contacts provided by the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit by an alert unit on determining crossing of the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit from the selected geo fence area and exceeding the predetermined time period set by the user.

According to the second aspect the method includes prompting safety response alerts to the user wearing the user wearable potable data communication unit based on the predetermined time period set by the user and the alerts comprising an alert message and an alarm sound.

According to the second aspect the method includes dynamically responding back to the prompted alerts transmitted to the user wearable portable data communication unit for avoiding the transmission of notifications to the predefined list of contacts provided by the user.

According to the second aspect the method includes at least one of polling a web based server unit by the user wearable portable data communication unit through a data communication network for receiving the automatic trigger from the web based server unit latest firmware version and the updated versions of firmware stored in the web based server unit.

According to the second aspect the method includes storing the updated settings received from the web based server unit in a memory unit configured in the user wearable portable data communication unit to act in accordance with the stored settings. The method also includes storing the predefined list of contacts threshold levels frequency way points current location of the user and software versions in the web based server unit communicating with the user wearable portable data communication unit.

According to the second aspect the method includes collecting a prime location contiguous to the current geographical location of the user wearable portable data communication unit by the mapping software based on the current global positioning system of the user wearable portable data communication unit. Further the collected one or more prime locations contiguous to the current geographical location of the user wearable portable data communication unit are transmitted to the user wearable portable data communication unit worn by a visually impaired person through a speaker Bluetooth and radio communication according to a predetermined time period set by the user.

It is to be understood that the present disclosure is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The present disclosure is capable of other embodiments and of being practised or of being carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

The use of including comprising or having and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items. The terms a and an herein do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item. Further the use of terms first second and third and the like herein do not denote any order quantity or importance but rather are used to distinguish one element from another.

As shown in the user is enabled to select a geographical area by using mapping unit integrated within the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit for geo fencing the selected geographical area. The mapping unit integrated within the corresponding user wearable portable data communication unit is enabled to communicate with the web based server unit for accessing the data and configuration and the like. The selected geographical area is either displayed over the display unit integrated within the user wearable portable data communication unit or blocked from displaying depending on the user preferences. The user is also further enabled to set a predetermined period of time to the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit before entering the specific geo fence area selected by the user. The user wearable portable data communication unit worn by the user acts as a stop watch after entering the specified geo fence area and transmits notifications and alerts to the user if the set time period exceeds or if the user crosses the specified geo fence area or between a set period of time.

As further shown in if the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit crosses the specified geo fence area or exceeds the predetermined time period set by the user the notifications and alerts are transmitted to the predefined list of contacts provided by the user by using an alerting unit integrated within the user wearable portable data communication unit . The notifications and alerts transmitted to the predefined list of contacts may include but not limited to short messaging service emails voice mails and the like. Also further the user wearing the corresponding user wearable portable data communication unit is also used as a safety device by setting a predetermined safety response back alarm which is used to prompt the user with short messages like but not limited to are you safe for every few minutes in accordance with the time period set by the user in the user wearable portable data communication unit which may include but not limited to a watch portal device and the like. The prompting alert generated by the user wearable portable data communication unit to be dynamically responded back by pressing a button configured in the user wearable portable data communication unit to indicate that the user is safe. If there is a lack of response from the user the user wearable portable data communication unit transmits the notifications to the predefined list of contacts provided by the user. Also the user will have an ability to cancel the alerts if allowed.

Moreover the web based server unit in communication with the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit through a data communication network is used to store the predefined list of contacts provided by the corresponding user wearable portable data communication unit . The web based server unit is also enabled to upload the predetermined threshold levels frequency way points and current location of the user provided by the corresponding user wearable portable data communication unit . Further the web based server unit is also used to store the network name of the user wearable portable data communication unit packet size and the software versions user data custom configuration settings. The user wearable portable data communication unit communicating with the web based server unit frequently polls the web based server unit for updating the user wearable portable data communication unit with the latest updates of software versions stored in the web based server unit . The latest updated software settings made in the user wearable portable data communication unit may include but not limited to global positioning system sampling interval and data upload interval and the like received by the web based server unit are stored in a memory integrated within the user wearable portable data communication unit . The web based server unit could be individual server or a cluster of web servers which may include but not limited to one to n number of web based server units depending on the usage of servers by the users. The data communication network used to establish a communication between the user wearable portable data communication unit and the web based server unit may include but not limited to a http based application layer https application layer user datagram protocols transmission control protocols or internet protocols and the like.

Furthermore the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit is enabled to transmit the current global positioning system of the corresponding user wearable portable data communication unit for collecting the contiguous prime locations by hitting the maps application programming interface API included in the mapping software . The collected contiguous prime locations are transmitted to the corresponding user wearable portable data communication unit . If the user wearing the corresponding user wearable portable data communication unit is a visually impaired person the data received by the user wearable portable data communication unit is conveyed to the corresponding user through a speaker Bluetooth radio and the like. The data received by the user wearable portable data communication unit may include but not limited to the notifications alerts contiguous prime locations deals at the nearby stores way points turn by turn directions and the like.

Further at the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit configured to receive a prompted safety and security response alerts based on the predetermined time period set by the user. At the response to the prompted alerts is determined if the response is generated by the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit the method continues with by avoiding the transmission of notifications to the predefined list of contacts provided by the user. Further if there is lack of response from the user at the method continues with step by transmitting notifications and alerts to the predefined list of contacts provided by the user.

Further at the readings of the stop watch including seconds and milliseconds are displayed over the display unit integrated within the user wearable portable data communication unit. Next at the displayed time is compared with the predetermined set timer as whether the displayed time is greater than or equal to set timer. If the displayed time is found to be greater than or equal to set time the method continues with by transmitting notifications and alerts to the predefined list of contacts provided by the user and if the displayed time is found to be less than the set time the method continues with by cancelling the timer and further continues with .

Further at the current time is compared with the start timer or the provided geo fence timer by determining whether the current time is greater then the start time. If the current time is found to be greater than the start time at the method continues with by transmitting a prompting alert to the user wearable portable data communication unit based on the predetermined time period set by the user. Next the response to the prompted alert is determined at if there is a response from the user the response of the prompted alert is displayed over a web based server unit or transmitted as a short message or email to the predefined list of contacts provided by the user at . If there is a lack of response from the user at a video is recorded and uploaded to a web based server unit an alarm indication is provided a short message service or email or multimedia message service is transmitted to the predefined list of contacts provided by the user at .

Further at the collected contiguous prime location data is transmitted to the corresponding user wearable portable data communication unit. At the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit is determined that whether the user is visually impaired or not. If the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit is determined to be visually impaired the data collected by the user wearable portable data communication unit at are transmitted to the visually impaired user data through a speaker Bluetooth headset and the like. If the user is not determined as visually impaired person at the method continuous with by displaying the data collected by the user over the display unit of the user wearing the user wearable portable data communication unit.

While specific embodiments of the invention have been shown and described in detail to illustrate the inventive principles it will be understood that the invention may be embodied otherwise without departing from such principles.

