---

title: Ultra-wideband high power amplifier architecture
abstract: Techniques and architecture are disclosed for providing an ultra-wideband, multi-channel solid-state power amplifier architecture. In some embodiments, the architecture includes a power divider which splits an input signal and delivers that split signal to a plurality of downstream channel chipsets. Each channel chipset is configured to amplify a sub-band of the original full-band input signal and to provide the resultant amplified sub-band for downstream use, such as for transmission by an antenna operatively coupled with that channel. In the aggregate, the amplified sub-bands provide coverage of the same ultra-wideband frequency range of the original input signal, in some cases. In some embodiments, the architecture provides high radio frequency (RF) power with good amplifying efficiency and ultra-wide instantaneous frequency bandwidth performance in a small-form-factor package. In some instances, control circuitry is provided to control which chipset die(s) are enabled/disabled, thus providing control over gain and power levels of the output signal(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08989683&OS=08989683&RS=08989683
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08989683
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This Application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 616 077 filed on Mar. 27 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with United States Government support. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

High power amplifier systems involve a number of non trivial challenges and such systems have faced particular complications such as those with respect to increasing output power levels while reducing device size weight and power SWaP . Continued device scaling will tend to exacerbate such problems.

One example embodiment of the present invention provides an amplifier circuit including a power divider configured to receive a radio frequency RF input signal a first chipset operatively coupled with the power divider and configured to amplify a first sub band of the input signal and a second chipset operatively coupled with the power divider and configured to amplify a second sub band of the input signal wherein the input signal is of a given bandwidth and sub bands amplified by the amplifier circuit including the first sub band and the second sub band in the aggregate cover the bandwidth of the input signal. In some cases the power divider comprises a passive power divider which provides an approximately 50 50 power split of the input signal to the first chipset and the second chipset. In some instances the power divider comprises a passive power divider which provides an approximately even power split of the input signal to each sub band. In some cases the power divider comprises an active power divider configured to at least one of evenly split the input signal and or provide gain to the input signal. In some instances the amplifier circuit further includes one or more additional chipsets each coupled with the power divider and configured to amplify a different sub band of the input signal. In some cases the bandwidth of the input signal is about 70 1 or lower. In some other cases the bandwidth of the input signal is about 18 1 or lower. In some instances at least one of the first chipset and or the second chipset includes a gallium nitride GaN based monolithic microwave integrated circuit MMIC . In some cases the amplifier circuit further includes a control circuit to control chipset output. In some such cases the control circuit comprises a temperature sensing circuit configured to detect a temperature change and to shift a voltage supplied to at least one of the first chipset and or the second chipset based on the detected temperature change. In some such instances the voltage shift is about 0.3 V. In some cases the control circuit comprises a switching circuit which provides a command signal that is used to electronically switch ON or OFF at least a portion of the first chipset and or the second chipset. In some such instances the switching circuit includes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS single pole double throw SPDT switch and the command signal adjusts gate bias of at least a portion of the first chipset and or the second chipset. In some cases the amplifier circuit further includes a first antenna operatively coupled with the first chipset and a second antenna operatively coupled with the second chipset.

Another example embodiment of the present invention provides an amplifier circuit including a power divider configured to receive a radio frequency RF input signal a first chipset operatively coupled with the power divider and configured to amplify a first sub band of the input signal the first chipset comprising a first pre driver a first driver operatively coupled with the first pre driver and a first high power amplifier operatively coupled with the first driver and a second chipset operatively coupled with the power divider and configured to amplify a second sub band of the input signal the second chipset comprising a second pre driver a second driver operatively coupled with the second pre driver and a second high power amplifier operatively coupled with the second driver wherein at least one of the first pre driver the first driver the first high power amplifier the second pre driver the second driver and or the second high power amplifier comprises a gallium nitride GaN based monolithic microwave integrated circuit MMIC . In some cases the amplifier circuit further includes an off chip matching circuit operatively coupled with the first high power amplifier of the first chipset. In some instances the first chipset and the second chipset serve to partition a full instantaneous operating bandwidth of the input signal. In some cases the amplifier circuit further includes a control circuit comprising a temperature sensing circuit configured to detect a temperature change and to shift a voltage supplied to at least one of the first chipset and or the second chipset based on the detected temperature change wherein the voltage shift serves to offset amplifier circuit performance over a temperature range and a switching circuit configured to provide a command signal which is used to electronically switch ON or OFF at least one of the first pre driver the first driver the first high power amplifier the second pre driver the second driver and or the second high power amplifier.

Another example embodiment of the present invention provides a transmitter including a passive in phase power divider configured to receive an input signal having a bandwidth of at least 18 1 a first channel chipset operatively coupled with the passive power divider and configured to amplify a first sub band of the input signal a second channel chipset operatively coupled with the passive power divider and configured to amplify a second sub band of the input signal a first antenna operatively coupled with the first channel chipset and configured to transmit the first sub band after amplification thereof by the first channel chipset and a second antenna operatively coupled with the second channel chipset and configured to transmit the second sub band after amplification thereof by the second channel chipset. In some cases the transmitter further includes a control circuit comprising at least one of a temperature sensing circuit configured to detect a temperature change and to shift a voltage supplied to at least one of the first channel chipset and or the second channel chipset based on the detected temperature change and or a switching circuit configured to provide a command signal which is used to electronically switch ON or OFF at least a portion of the first channel chipset and or the second channel chipset. In some cases the transmitter further includes a control circuit configured to reduce output power and gain levels of at least one of the first channel chipset and or the second channel chipset and to maintain frequency bandwidth response at those reduced output power and gain levels.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been selected principally for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

Techniques and architecture are disclosed for providing an ultra wideband multi channel solid state power amplifier architecture. In some embodiments the architecture includes a power divider which splits an input signal and delivers that split signal to a plurality of downstream channel chipsets. Each channel chipset is configured to amplify a sub band of the original full band input signal and to provide the resultant amplified sub band for downstream use such as for transmission by an antenna operatively coupled with that channel. In the aggregate the amplified sub bands provide coverage of the same ultra wideband frequency range of the original input signal in accordance with some embodiments. In some such embodiments the architecture provides high radio frequency RF power with good amplifying efficiency and ultra wide instantaneous frequency bandwidth performance in a small form factor package. In some instances control circuitry is provided to control which semiconductor die s of a given channel chipset are enabled disabled thus providing control over the gain and power levels of the output signal s . Numerous configurations and variations will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As previously indicated there are a number of non trivial issues that can arise which can complicate high power amplifier systems. For instance one non trivial issue pertains to the fact that there continues to be a need to develop transmitters that provide high levels of radio frequency RF power over increasingly wider frequency bandwidths using architectures that exploit reduced size weight and power SWaP . One existing approach to addressing reduced SWaP high power amplifiers involves making use of gallium nitride GaN solid state semiconductors. To date power amplifiers employing GaN have demonstrated RF power comparable to larger size travelling wave tube amplifiers TWTAs and have increased power amplifier reliability and maintainability over TWTA technology. However the ability to provide high RF power over increased operating bandwidth is significantly impeded due to factors including the high circuit losses associated with the wideband matching networks required in such amplifiers.

Thus and in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention techniques are disclosed for providing an ultra wideband multi channel solid state power amplifier architecture. At its input the disclosed amplifier architecture utilizes a power divider which splits a received input signal and delivers that split signal to a plurality of downstream channel chipsets. Each such channel chipset is configured to amplify a narrower frequency sub band channel of the input signal which it receives. Thus in a sense the channel chipsets serve to partition the full instantaneous operating bandwidth of the original input signal. In some cases wide frequency high power channel chipsets such as gallium nitride GaN monolithic microwave integrated circuits MMICs can be used. In any case the resultant amplified sub bands can be delivered downstream for example for subsequent transmission by antennas associated with the channel chipsets.

In some instances the channel chipsets can be optimized or otherwise tailored to amplify a given sub band of the input signal which may result in more efficient sub band performance. Also use of such band limited chipsets for each channel of the power amplifier architecture can provide in accordance with an embodiment an inherent frequency discriminator which may aid in determining which sub band signal is to be amplified and ultimately transmitted. Furthermore and in accordance with an embodiment the use of multiple wideband chipsets in conjunction with the power splitting at the input of the amplifier architecture where power levels are relatively low allows for use of ultra wideband low level input signals and thus a low loss ultra wideband in phase power divider in some instances .

In a power amplifier architecture configured as described herein each sub band signal is amplified only in one of the channels having the appropriate band limited amplifying channel bandwidth. Collectively however and in accordance with one such embodiment the channels of the amplifier architecture provide amplification over a much wider total instantaneous bandwidth than would be possible with any of the individual channel sub bands alone. Also because each channel amplifies only a portion of the overall instantaneous power amplifier bandwidth high RF power with good amplifying efficiency can be achieved in each channel sub band.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention the combination of distributed wideband channel chipsets e.g. GaN MMICs and bandwidth partitioning may overcome the inherent weakness in band limited MMIC chipsets and antenna element bandwidth to achieve a combination of high RF power ultra wideband instantaneous frequency bandwidth performance and reduced package form factor beyond what is obtainable using existing techniques and architectures. Some embodiments may provide a combination of RF power and bandwidth performance for example which exceeds the performance obtainable with existing amplifier approaches including TWTAs. In one specific example embodiment a dual band power amplifier architecture having an operating bandwidth in excess of 18 1 can be provided using the disclosed techniques and architecture. Numerous configurations will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

For instance in some cases the disclosed techniques can be used to provide an ultra wideband high power amplifier which exhibits a significantly extended overall amplifier bandwidth as compared to existing architectures. For example some embodiments can be used to amplify input signals having a frequency in the range of about 0.1 18 GHz with minimal or otherwise negligible loss. The claimed invention is not so limited however as some other embodiments can be used to amplify input signals of greater frequency e.g. in the range of about 18 40 GHz about 40 60 GHz or greater depending on the target application with minimal or otherwise negligible loss. Coverage of other frequency ranges or sub sets of any frequency range may be provided for example by adjusting the number of channels utilized in a given power amplifier configured as described herein. Numerous configurations will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As previously noted and in accordance with one or more embodiments the disclosed techniques and architecture can be used to provide a power amplifier which exhibits both high RF power and ultra wide instantaneous frequency bandwidth performance in a small form factor transmitter package. In some instances these resultant reduced SWaP transmitter architectures may find application for example in electronic warfare EW systems. Other suitable uses and contexts will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

Also and in accordance with an embodiment use of the disclosed techniques and architecture may avoid or otherwise reduce complications related to the use of antennas which are inherently band limited. For example by dividing up the input signal into multiple channels each downstream band limited antenna may receive an appropriately band limited output signal thereby eliminating or otherwise mitigating bandwidth complications which otherwise might arise from utilizing an undivided input signal.

Furthermore a multi channel power amplifier architecture configured as described herein can omit use of a physical microwave switch at the beginning of such architecture. Instead and in accordance with one such embodiment the amplifier architecture can control the ON and OFF states and thus the selection of a given channel thereof for example utilizing an electronic switch which makes use of the active gate bias control of the semiconductor devices in a particular channel of the amplifier architecture. The channel s of the multi channel power amplifier architecture which are not within the signal bandwidth e.g. which do not contain the signal of interest can be placed in an OFF state with no detrimental effect on the operating channel which remains in an ON state. As a result a reduction in the DC power requirements of the amplifier architecture and any system implementing such architecture may be realized. This may be aided for example by fast turn ON and turn OFF capabilities of the semiconductor devices of the disclosed power amplifier architecture knowledge of the input frequency signal and or use of suitable DC control for each channel.

It should be noted that the claimed invention is not intended to be limited to the example embodiment of . For instance while the example architecture depicted in includes only a first sub band channel chipset and a second sub band channel chipset which provide Output Signals and respectively other embodiments of the present invention may include additional chipsets e.g. three four five or more sub band channel chipsets which can provide additional output signals e.g. three four five or more output signals as desired for a given target application or end use. Numerous suitable configurations will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

Architecture can provide output signals e.g. Output Signals and of any of a wide range of frequencies and thus architecture can exhibit ultra wideband amplification performance in accordance with some embodiments. For instance in some cases architecture can provide an output bandwidth that is less than or equal to about 10 1 e.g. about 8 1 about 5 1 about 3 1 about 2 1 about 1 1 . However the claimed invention is not so limited. In some other embodiments architecture can provide an output bandwidth in the range of about 10 1 to about 30 1 e.g. about 15 1 about 20 1 about 25 1 . In some still other embodiments architecture can provide an output bandwidth that is greater than or equal to about 30 1 e.g. about 40 1 about 50 1 about 60 1 about 70 1 or greater . In a more general sense architecture can be configured to provide any number of output signals of any given bandwidth as desired for a given target application or end use.

In some cases and in accordance with an embodiment architecture may be configured to allow use of an Input Signal for example which is a low level ultra wideband radio frequency RF signal. As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure the frequency range of the Input Signal may be varied as desired for a given target application or end use. Furthermore as discussed below and in accordance with an embodiment architecture may be configured to alter its performance based on one or more characteristics of the Input Signal and or the Output Signal s derived therefrom e.g. frequency sub bands of interest output power levels .

As can be seen from and a divider can be included for example at the input of architecture . In accordance with an embodiment divider is configured to receive an Input Signal and to split that signal for downstream use in architecture . In some embodiments divider can be configured as a two channel 2 1 splitter which splits the Input Signal into two signals one of which is sent to channel chipset and the other of which is sent to channel chipset both of which are discussed in detail below. In such a case about 50 of the power of the Input Signal is delivered to channel chipset while the balance is delivered to channel chipset e.g. about a 50 50 power split is provided by divider . The claimed invention is not so limited however. In other embodiments divider can be configured for example to split the Input Signal into three four five or more channels as desired for a given target application or end use. As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure additional chipsets accordingly may be implemented for the additional signal channels when provided. In a more general sense power divider can be configured to split a given Input Signal for delivery to any number of channels of a given multi channel amplifier architecture .

Divider can have any of a wide variety of configurations. For example consider which is a perspective view of a passive divider configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As can be seen in the depicted example embodiment divider is configured here as a two channel 2 1 passive power divider which provides an approximately 50 50 power split of the Input Signal. In this configuration the Input Signal is received at port of divider and the signal propagates along divider in the general direction indicated by the large bolded arrow in the figure. A first instance of the Input Signal exits divider at port e.g. to be received by channel chipset while a second instance of the Input Signal exits at port e.g. to be received by channel chipset . In one example instance divider can be an ultra wideband in phase passive divider which provides low loss power division. Other suitable configurations for passive divider will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

It should be noted however that the claimed invention is not intended to be limited only to use of passive dividers for divider of architecture . For example consider which is a layout view of an active divider configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As can be seen in the depicted example embodiment divider is configured here as a two channel 2 1 active divider which provides an approximately 50 50 power split of the Input Signal while also providing gain thereto. In one example instance divider can be an ultra wideband active divider which provides gain in addition to power division. In the depicted example configuration the Input Signal is received at port of divider and the signal propagates along divider in the general direction indicated by the large bolded arrow in the figure. A first instance of the Input Signal exits divider at port to be received by a channel chipset which is configured for example to amplify a sub band in the range of about 0.1 1.5 GHz. A second instance of the Input Signal exits at port to be received by a channel chipset which is configured for example to amplify a sub band in the range of about 1.5 7 GHz. The claimed invention is not so limited however. For instance the operating bandwidths of channel chipsets and or may be varied as desired for a given target application or end use in accordance with one or more other embodiments. Numerous configurations will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In any case inclusion of divider e.g. divider divider at the input of architecture e.g. where power levels are relatively low may allow for use for example of a low level ultra wideband Input Signal which in turn may allow for obtaining ultra wideband performance from architecture while maintaining low loss power splitting. Other suitable configurations for divider will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

Returning now to architecture includes a plurality of channel chipsets downstream of divider which receive the Input Signal after splitting thereof by divider . In accordance with an embodiment chipsets and and any additional chipsets optionally implemented for additional channels of amplifier architecture each can be configured to operate over a given narrower frequency sub band channel within the full instantaneous frequency of the Input Signal received by architecture . Thus in a sense channel chipsets and and any other channel chipsets if provided serve to partition the full operating bandwidth for amplifier architecture in accordance with an embodiment. The inherent bandwidth limited nature of channel chipsets and and any other channel chipsets which may be included optionally determines which sub bands of the full bandwidth Input Signal are amplified and which frequency ranges are allowed to fall away unamplified and thus which output signals ultimately are available for downstream use e.g. for transmission by one or more downstream antennas .

As discussed below and in accordance with one or more embodiments each channel chipset and others if provided can include wideband circuit architecture s which are tailored or otherwise configured for example to operate on e.g. to amplify their respective sub bands of interest of the original Input Signal while providing the lowest possible loss in each sub band. Furthermore and in accordance with an embodiment a given channel chipset or other can be configured based on the inherent bandwidth limitations for example of whichever downstream antenna will receive and ultimately transmit that channel s amplified sub band signal. Thus by virtue of the configurations of its channel chipsets and and any others optionally implemented architecture may exhibit more efficient sub band performance which in turn may improve the overall efficiency of an amplifier system utilizing architecture . A description of channel chipsets and of the architecture now follows.

As previously noted after being split by divider the Input Signal is provided to a first sub band channel chipset . Also as previously noted and in accordance with an embodiment chipset is generally configured to amplify a first sub band of interest of the Input Signal and to provide the resultant amplified signal e.g. Output Signal for downstream use e.g. transmission by a first antenna . To that end and in accordance with an embodiment channel chipset can be configured to provide band limited amplification and in some instances may be inherently band limited for example by virtue of its componentry. In one example embodiment chipset is limited to amplifying signal frequencies in the range of about 1 4 GHz. However the claimed invention is not so limited as other frequency ranges e.g. less than about 1 GHz greater than about 4 GHz for channel chipset can be provided as desired for a given target application or end use in accordance with other embodiments. For example as previously discussed a channel chipset configured to amplify signal frequencies in the range of about 0.1 1.5 GHz can be provided in accordance with some embodiments. In any such case Output Signal effectively can be limited to that same frequency range that is if chipset is configured for example to amplify signal frequencies in the 1 4 GHz range then signal frequencies outside of that range may be allowed to fall away unamplified and Output Signal may exhibit one or more frequencies within that range e.g. representing the first sub band of interest .

In the depicted example embodiment of channel chipset includes a pre driver a driver operatively coupled with the output of pre driver and a high power amplifier HPA operatively coupled with the output of driver . Each of pre driver driver and HPA will be discussed in turn below. In accordance with one or more embodiments any of pre driver driver and or HPA of chipset can be configured for example as wideband monolithic microwave integrated circuits MMICs in some such instances utilizing gallium nitride GaN based semiconductor devices. Other suitable components bandwidth ranges and configurations for chipset will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In the depicted example embodiment of pre driver is configured as a two stage pre driver including an amplifier and an amplifier coupled with an output thereof. As previously noted pre driver can be configured in some example instances as a GaN MMIC. In some embodiments pre driver utilizes wideband circuit architecture for amplifier and or amplifier such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 924 097 issued on Apr. 12 2011 and titled Solid State Ultra Wideband Microwave Power Amplifier Employing Modular Non Uniform Distributed Amplifier Elements which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Other suitable configurations for pre driver and its constituent amplifiers will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As can further be seen from driver is operatively coupled with the output of pre driver e.g. at the output of amplifier thereof . In the depicted example embodiment driver is configured as a single stage driver including an amplifier . As previously noted driver can be configured in some example instances as a GaN MMIC. Also in some instances driver utilizes the same wideband circuit architecture for amplifier as is discussed above with reference to pre driver . Other suitable configurations for driver and amplifier will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As can further be seen from HPA is operatively coupled with the output of driver e.g. at the output of amplifier thereof . In the depicted example embodiment HPA includes a first series of amplifiers and and a second series of amplifiers and where the inputs of amplifiers and are coupled together with the output of driver and the outputs of amplifiers and are coupled together. As previously noted HPA can be configured in some example instances as a GaN MMIC. Also in some instances HPA utilizes wideband circuit architecture for amplifiers and or such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 076 975 issued on Dec. 13 2011 and titled Broadband High Power Amplifier which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments HPA can be operatively coupled with an off chip matching circuit configured to aid in combining the outbound signal of the first series of amplifiers and the outbound signal of the second series of amplifiers into a single output signal e.g. Output Signal . Other suitable configurations for HPA its constituent amplifiers and matching circuit will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

Downstream of divider the Input Signal is also provided to a second sub band channel chipset . As previously noted and in accordance with an embodiment chipset is generally configured to amplify a first sub band of interest of the Input Signal and to provide the resultant amplified signal e.g. Output Signal for downstream use e.g. transmission by a second antenna . To that end and in accordance with an embodiment channel chipset can be configured to provide band limited amplification and in some instances may be inherently band limited for example by virtue of its componentry. In one example embodiment chipset is limited to amplifying signal frequencies in the range of about 3 18 GHz. However the claimed invention is not so limited as other frequency ranges e.g. less than about 3 GHz greater than about 18 GHz for channel chipset can be provided as desired for a given target application or end use in accordance with other embodiments. For example as previously discussed a channel chipset configured to amplify signal frequencies in the range of about 1.5 7 GHz can be provided in accordance with some embodiments. In any such case Output Signal effectively can be limited to that same frequency range that is if chipset is configured for example to amplify signal frequencies in the 3 18 GHz range then signal frequencies outside of that range may be allowed to fall away unamplified and Output Signal may exhibit one or more frequencies within that range e.g. representing the second sub band of interest .

In the depicted example embodiment of channel chipset includes a pre driver a driver operatively coupled with the output of pre driver and a high power amplifier HPA operatively coupled with the output of driver . Each of pre driver driver and HPA will be discussed in turn below. In accordance with one or more embodiments any of pre driver driver and or HPA of chipset can be configured for example as wideband MMICs in some such instances utilizing GaN based semiconductor devices. Other suitable components bandwidth ranges and configurations for chipset will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In the depicted example embodiment of pre driver is configured as a two stage pre driver including an amplifier and an amplifier coupled with an output thereof. As previously noted pre driver can be configured in some example instances as a GaN MMIC. In some instances pre driver utilizes the same wideband circuit architecture for amplifier and or amplifier as is discussed above with reference to pre driver . Other suitable configurations for pre driver and its constituent amplifiers will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As can further be seen from driver is operatively coupled with the output of pre driver e.g. at the output of amplifier thereof . In the depicted example embodiment driver is configured as a two stage driver including an amplifier and an amplifier coupled with an output thereof. As previously noted driver can be configured in some example instances as a GaN MMIC. Also in some instances driver utilizes the same wideband circuit architecture for amplifier and or amplifier as is discussed above with reference to pre driver . Other suitable configurations for driver and its constituent amplifiers will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As can further be seen from HPA is operatively coupled with the output of driver e.g. at the output of amplifier thereof . In the depicted example embodiment HPA is configured as a two stage HPA including an amplifier and an amplifier coupled with an output thereof. As previously noted HPA can be configured in some example instances as a GaN MMIC. Also in some instances HPA utilizes the same wideband circuit architecture as is discussed above with reference to HPA . As is further evident from an off chip matching circuit can be omitted from HPA in some instances for example given that amplifiers and are coupled in series e.g. as opposed to HPA which includes a first series of amplifiers and and a second series of amplifiers and which are provided in a parallel coupling arrangement . Other suitable configurations for HPA and its constituent amplifiers will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As previously discussed architecture is configured to provide one or more output signals each of which is an amplified sub band of the original full band Input Signal. While each output signal of architecture individually constitutes only a portion of the full instantaneous bandwidth of the original Input Signal those output signals provide coverage in the aggregate of the full frequency bandwidth of the Input Signal in accordance with some embodiments. In some such cases the various output signals of architecture each representing a given sub band of interest can be summed together to provide substantially or identically the same frequency bandwidth coverage as the original Input Signal. Thus as previously discussed amplifier architecture can be configured to achieve ultra wideband performance in some cases. Also it may be desirable in some instances to ensure that the operating bandwidths of chipset and chipset and or any other channel chipsets which may be provided in architecture have some overlap in amplifying frequency range so as to provide the desired degree of coverage for a given target application or end use.

In some cases architecture may include control circuitry to aid in controlling the one or more output signals produced thereby. For instance consider which is a circuit schematic of a control circuit configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As can be seen control circuit includes a temperature sensing circuit and a switching circuit operatively coupled with circuit . In some instances control circuit may be configured as an active gate bias circuit which controls the input received by the gate of any given semiconductor die of architecture e.g. pre driver driver and or HPA of sub band channel chipset pre driver driver and or HPA of sub band channel chipset . Temperature sensing circuit and switching circuit are discussed below in turn. Other suitable configurations for control circuit will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

By virtue of its inclusion of temperature sensing circuit control circuit can serve in accordance with an embodiment to improve the output power of the circuit dies e.g. GaN MMICs discussed above of architecture at higher temperatures and to decrease power consumption of those circuit dies at colder temperatures. To that end circuit can be configured to shift the voltage based on observed temperature changes to offset MMIC performance over a given temperature range. This functionality can be achieved for instance by adding the sense voltage generated by a temperature sensor e.g. such as the LM335A active precision temperature sensor produced by Texas Instruments Inc. or other suitable temperature sensor as will be apparent in light of this disclosure to the gate voltage of a given circuit die of architecture . As the temperature increases the positive voltage from the temperature sensor also increases. This voltage is added to the GaN MMIC gate voltage which is negative reducing the overall negative voltage. This new gate bias helps to offset the loss of current and output power experienced at higher temperatures by the GaN devices which may be a desirable functionality for example in real world power amplifiers embedded in transmitters. At colder temperatures the opposite effect occurs the positive voltage generated by the temperature sensor decreases. When added to the GaN MMIC gate voltage which is negative it increases the overall negative voltage. This new gate bias lowers the DC current and correspondingly lowers DC power consumption and reduces the output power increase experienced at lower temperatures. In one specific example embodiment about a 0.3 V change e.g. 10 is provided if the ambient temperature is warmer than desired and about a 0.3 V change e.g. 10 is provided if the ambient temperature is cooler than desired. Other suitable configurations and voltage shifts will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In some instances it may be desirable to provide amplifier architecture with the ability to shut off a given portion of channel chipset and or e.g. any one or more of the various semiconductor dies of chipsets discussed above . Providing architecture with control over which of its semiconductor dies are in an ON state and which are in an OFF state allows in accordance with one or more embodiments for control over the gain and power levels of the output signal s of amplifier architecture and or for improved power management. Furthermore as will be appreciated in light of this disclosure providing architecture with the ability to actively electronically turn ON OFF any one or more of its constituent semiconductor dies may make it unnecessary for example to include a microwave switch at the input of the multi channel power amplifier thereby improving speed and lowering loss of any given channel thereof.

To these ends and in accordance with an embodiment control circuit may include one or more electronic switching circuits configured to provide digital command signal s which can be used to electronically switch ON or OFF a given circuit die of architecture . When the appropriate command signal is provided by a given switching circuit a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS switch within that switching circuit switches between the ON state voltage and OFF state voltage for a given semiconductor die of architecture . In one specific example embodiment the aforementioned CMOS switch can be a low impedance CMOS single pole double throw SPDT switch. In another specific example embodiment the CMOS switch may be configured as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 016 599 filed on Jan. 28 2011 and titled High Power Amplifier which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Other suitable configurations for a given electronic switching circuit of control circuit will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

It should be noted that while the example control circuit of depicts only a single switching circuit the claimed invention is not so limited. In other embodiments multiple switching circuits can be provided such that any of the circuit dies of architecture discussed above can be operatively coupled with its own switching circuit . Thus control circuit may include multiple instances of switching circuit each of which is operatively coupled with a different semiconductor die of architecture . In some instances this may allow for control to be done on a per channel basis as discussed below.

In accordance with an embodiment control circuit by virtue of including one or more electronic switching circuits may allow for disengaging a particular channel e.g. providing one or more OFF channels without interfering with the performance of the operating channel the ON channel . For instance using the gate bias control of the devices in a particular channel control circuit can shut down an entire channel chipset e.g. channel chipset or other if provided of architecture as desired and thus effectively select from any of the various channels of architecture . Providing control circuit with this ability may be useful for example in cases in which only a single channel chipset is to be used for amplification of a given Input Signal e.g. only one sub band is to be amplified and so only one channel chipset is to be enabled to provide that amplification .

Furthermore in some instances control circuit by virtue of including one or more electronic switching circuits may allow for complete control over the output power levels of architecture without need to use other components such as attenuators or variable gain amplifiers. It should be noted however that the claimed invention is not so limited as components such as attenuators and variable gain amplifiers optionally may be included in other embodiments. Numerous configurations will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

When included control circuit may be located for example on the underside of architecture e.g. such as on the underside of module of . In some such instances it may be desirable to confine control circuit to a region which avoids interfering or otherwise negligibly interferes with the performance of HPAs and of architecture . For instance in one example embodiment control circuit can be made to reside within the bounds of region of module shown in so as not to adversely affect any metal layer s included under HPAs and for example for thermal management purposes. Other suitable locations for and approaches to integrating control circuit with amplifier architecture and or module will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

