---

title: Prioritizing online relationships
abstract: Systems and methods for generating a set of priority contacts based on their strength of relationship with a user. Contacts of users and communications from those contacts are aggregated across multiple online accounts into a single set of communications. An affinity score is calculated for each of the user's contacts based on adding up the total weight and frequency of communications with the user and a predetermined number of contacts having the highest affinity score can be identified as priority contacts. The affinity score is used to filter the news feed in a user interface display so that only communications from priority contacts are displayed in the news feed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09087110&OS=09087110&RS=09087110
owner: MYLIFE.COM, INC.
number: 09087110
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131202
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 893 801 filed Oct. 21 2013 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The embodiments described herein relate generally to prioritizing online contacts. More particularly the embodiments described herein relate to a systems and methods for automatically generating a set of priority contacts based on their strength of relationship with a user.

Online social and professional networks wireless communications networks and email messaging accounts provide a number of different platforms with different communications channels and different means of communicating between users. Conventionally users of these accounts would have to sign up for each account and create login credentials such as a user name and password. To get their messages or other communications users would then have to logon to each account individually. Some recent systems have attempted to solve this problem by providing users with the ability to aggregate their online accounts in a centralized account but those systems suffer from the disadvantage of overload of messages in the news feed display of the centralized account.

Systems and methods disclosed herein relate to generating a set of priority contacts based on their strength of relationship with a user. Using the techniques introduced herein contacts of users and communications from those contacts can be aggregated across multiple online accounts into a single set of communications in a centralized queue. The communications can then be analyzed to determine the category and frequency of the communications and weights can be assigned to each different category of communication based on a set of rules adapted to show the level of affinity of a particular contact with the user and vice versa . An affinity score is calculated for each of the user s contacts based on adding up the total weight and frequency of communications with the user and a predetermined number of contacts having the highest affinity score can be identified as priority contacts. The affinity score can then be used to filter the news feed in a user interface display so that only communications from priority contacts are displayed in the news feed and other contacts are filtered out.

These and other embodiments along with many of their advantages and features are described in more detail in conjunction with the description below and attached figures.

Throughout this description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to avoid obscuring the underlying principles of the described embodiments.

The systems and methods introduced herein allow users to manage their entire life online across multiple accounts including social networks and wireless phone and email communications accounts. Systems and methods disclosed herein are adapted to automatically generate a set of priority contacts based on their strength of relationship with a user. Using the techniques introduced herein contacts of users and communications from those contacts can be aggregated across multiple online accounts into a single set of communications in a centralized queue. For instance embodiments enable users to access and connect with their friends and professional contacts across multiple accounts such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Gmail Yahoo YouTube iCloud AOL Hotmail wireless phone etc. The communications can then be analyzed to determine the category and frequency of the communications and weights can be assigned to each different category of communication based on a set of rules adapted to show the level of affinity of a particular contact with the user and vice versa . An affinity score is calculated for each of the user s contacts based on adding up the total weight and frequency of communications with the user and a predetermined number of contacts having the highest affinity score can be identified as priority contacts. The affinity score can then be used to filter the news feed in a user interface display so that only communications from priority contacts are displayed in the news feed and other contacts are filtered out.

Numerous benefits are achieved by way of the techniques described herein over conventional techniques. For example embodiments provide users with the ability aggregate communications from their contacts across multiple online accounts such as social networks and wireless and email communications accounts into a centralized account and to display those communications in a single news feed. As used herein the term communications is intended to be interpreted broadly to include any type of electronic communication between a user and his or her contacts including email or text messages social media likes comments shares messages pokes or posts as well as practically any other online communication. These communications can then be filtered in a manner such that only communications from a predetermined number of priority contacts having the strongest relationship with the user are displayed. Among other things this helps prevent overload of communications in the centralized account. Other advantages include enabling users to 1 search for and update priority connections all in one place 2 monitor and manage a user s online identity and 3 share communications with priority contacts and receive prioritized communications. Users can post and receive messages across each of their online accounts as well as get up to date information and alerts from other users who are identified as prioritized contacts.

A process of prioritizing relationships based on analyzing communications from one or more online accounts is described below with reference to and . It is noted that the processes described below are exemplary in nature and are provided for illustrative purposes and not intended to limit the scope of the invention to any particular example embodiment. For instance methods in accordance with some embodiments described herein may include or omit some or all of the operations described below or may include steps in a different order than described herein. depicts an example block diagram of a process for prioritizing relationships based on analyzing email communications according to one embodiment. At least certain embodiments include a personal relationship manager PRM adapted to aggregate users online communications. The PRM can be implemented in hardware or software or any combination thereof. The PRM enables users to aggregate communications from multiple accounts and to filter those communications so that only communications from priority connections are displayed. In the illustrated embodiment of the PRM post process queue represents the centralized queue wherein users email communications are aggregated across one or more email accounts.

Process begins at operation where an email message fetcher provides email messages from an existing email account to an existing email message processor . Fetcher can be implemented in hardware or software or any combination thereof. Each aggregated email account in the system includes its own email fetcher . At operation the email message processor transmits processed email messages to the PRM post process queue which aggregates the messages from one or more email accounts and analyzes them to determine a weight for each email message. To do this at operation PRM post process queue applies a number of priority relationship rules to the email communications using priority relationship finder . The priority relationship rules for each priority relationship of a user are stored in registry database . At operation the priority relationships rules are accessed from registry database . The priority rules are then applied to the communications stored in PRM post process queue to determine a weight for each message. Once the communications are weighted the weights can be added up to determine an overall affinity score of each contact with the user which can be used to filter communications displayed in the user s message feed in the user interface of the centralized account. This completes process according to one example embodiment.

In at least certain embodiments the PRM refresh relationships queue is the same queue as the PRM post process queue discussed with respect to above. The reason for this is that in these embodiments all communications are aggregated in a centralized queue including both email messages and social network communications such as likes posts comments shares events and messages. Other embodiments are possible. For instance a separate queue for different categories can be provided and communications can be aggregated based on time stamp. Process continues at operation where details of the centralized account are also provided to the PRM refresh relationships queue . At operation priority relationship rules are applied to the communications stored in the queue for each category of communication from each of the multiple online social network accounts to determine weights for those communications. As shown priority relationship rules obtained from a Facebook application programming interface API priority relationship rules from a Twitter API and priority relationship rules from a LinkedIn API are each applied to the appropriate communications in queue .

The priority relationship rules for each priority relationship of a user are stored in registry database . At operation the priority relationships rules are accessed from registry database . The priority rules are then applied to the communications stored in queue to determine a weight for each communication. Once the communications are weighted the weights can be added up to determine an overall affinity score of each contact with the user which can be used to filter communications displayed in the user s message feed in the user interface of the centralized account. This completes process according to one example embodiment.

Provided below are descriptions of illustrative systems and apparatuses upon which the embodiments described herein can be implemented. Although some of the components or devices described herein may be depicted as separate components or devices in some instances one or more of those components or devices may be combined into a single device or system. Similarly although certain functions may be described as being performed by a single combined component or device in some instances the functions may be performed by multiple separate components within a device or system. Communication between components and devices described herein may comprise the exchange of data or information using electronic messages on any suitable electronic communication medium as described below. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the devices and systems described below may have only some of the components described below or may have additional components. In addition embodiments may be practiced with various system configurations such as with hand held devices microprocessors microprocessor based or programmable user electronics minicomputers mainframe computers or similar systems. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wired or wireless network.

A priority rules engine can also be provided to set rules to assign weights to each communication exchanged with users of the system. Rules engine applies priority relationship rules to the communications stored in queue so that weights can be assigned to each communication based on the category and type of the communication. These initial weights have been assigned based on research as to what factors tend to show the level of the strength of relationship with a user compared to other categories and types of communications. That is initially the rules may be predetermined based on research into what types and categories of communications tend to show affinity for the user as well as the degree or level of affinity. However the weights are adaptable over time based on analyzing the user s online behavior and communications patterns over time and adjusting the rules accordingly. In addition different weights can then be assigned to different types of communications from different communication channels corresponding to the various different accounts that can be aggregated by the system. For instance a Facebook comment can be assigned a more valuable weight than a Facebook like because a comment shows more engagement with the user than a like does. Table 1 is given below depicts one embodiment of the weights or points that are assigned to each communication initially.

Referring back to the illustrated embodiment of a priority relationship finder is also provided to identify priority contacts from among user contacts across one or more accounts. The priority relationship finder is adapted to sum up all these weights points across all communications with the user to determine an affinity score or P score for each contact based thereon. In one embodiment if the affinity score is higher the contact is more likely to be listed higher among the user s priority contacts. In order to provide relevant information this techniques described herein assume that the user would like to consume content messages posts photos videos etc. from contacts the user has the strongest relationships with. The strength of the relationship can then be calculated using an algorithm such as the one described below. In this way the strength of relationship of the contact with the user can be calculated as an affinity score between the two thereby allowing information to flow from the contacts a user is most engaged with.

In at least certain embodiments the affinity score is calculated based on multiplying the frequency of communications in a particular category with the weight of those communications wherein the frequency of communications is given by the number of communications with the user in a particular category divided by the total number of messages in that category as shown in the equation below 

This concept can be shown by the following two cases. In case 1 User A has exchanged one LinkedIn message two Facebook messages three Facebook posts e.g. User B tagged User A in a photo or User B uploaded a photo of User A and four email messages with User B. Based on the above the total P score would be calculated as follows score 1 10 2 2 10 2 3 10 2 4 10 2 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 2.0 Similarly in case 2 User A receives one email message this email is responded to two times and therefore becomes a conversation is added to two events e.g. User C invited User A to an event if User C is on both Facebook and LinkedIn in this case the P score would be calculated as follows score 1 6 2 2 6 5 2 6 5 1 6 10 0.33 1.67 1.67 1.67 5.34

Based on these two cases therefore User C will rank higher in priority than User B. Note that this can be tracked separately and updated once a week. Weightage of a network e.g. Facebook could be different for different people and therefore in order to personalize the weightage should change over time.

The affinity score can be recalculated after a predetermined time period such as on a daily basis and any change in list of priority contacts can be introduced automatically or after user selection. This allows updating the priority contacts based on the most recent activity of the user and any change in relationship. For example a breakup can result in change in status on Facebook and may immediately result in a drop in communications therefore such a contact may drop out of the priority contacts list or at least from list of recommended priority contacts provided to the user for selection. Similarly a conversation with a recruiter can include lots of back and forth messaging and result in a priority contact but that contact may accordingly fall off the priority contacts list once communication drops off. For example the weight assigned to a user s Yahoo inbox could currently be 0.1. This weight assignment is a snapshot of the user s messaging pattern on Yahoo This weight assignment can change as the user s online behavior changes e.g. if a user starts engaging on Yahoo more and gets 50 or more messages from that account as compared to other networks

System further includes a recommendation engine to provide a list of contacts the system recommends as priority contacts to enable users to easily identify those contacts that are closer in relationship to the user based on their messaging behavior. The priority contacts list can be generated automatically or it can be generated and then the user is prompted to confirm whether each contact is in fact a priority contact. Users can add one more accounts to the system for aggregation at the centralized account. Contacts can also be imported from the various online accounts of the user registered with the system. All communications across all priority contacts can be analyzed as well as the number of communications exchanged. In one embodiment if a user follows the recommendation for a priority contact generated by the system the user can chose to mark the contact as a priority contact and to filter email and social network communications based on priority thereby solving the information overload problem in the centralized news feed.

Finally system is further coupled with a priority contacts registry database via a network which can be any type of network capable of sending and receiving data over a wired or wireless connection. System can store and update priority contacts in database .

Then at operation an affinity score can be calculated based on the total weight and frequency of each contact s communications with the user from which a predetermined number of contacts can be identified having the highest affinity score as priority contacts of the user operation . Only communications from the priority contacts are then displayed in a single news feed associated with the centralized account operation and communications from contacts not identified as priority contacts are filtered out operation . As used herein a single news feed can be a web feed or other data format used for providing users with frequently updated content. In one embodiment the content is displayed in a timeline format. The makes a collection of information available to the user in one location. The types of communications and or content delivered to the news feed or web feed includes direct communications such as email or text messages or any other type of message social media communications such as posts shares likes comments events pokes etc. and any other webpage content such as HTML. In at least certain embodiments the direct email or text communications can be intermixed with the social media and or webpage communications and displayed in the news feed. In one embodiment the display is ordered at least partially based on the time when the communications are received. In other embodiments the display can be ordered based on other parameters and need not be ordered based on time the communications are received. The frequency of communications can be determined based on number of communications with a contact in each category divided by a total number of communications with all contacts in that category.

As discussed previously the set of rules are based on tendency of a particular category of communications to indicate strength of relationship with the user. The set of rules can be adaptable based on analyzing communication patterns of the user over time. The frequency of communications of the user with each contact can be recalculated as communications are received in real time and the list of priority contacts of the user can be updated at predetermined times in response thereto. This completes process according to one example embodiment.

Interface further includes a filter for toggling between displaying only the communications in the news feed from priority contact as described herein or displaying communications from all contacts in the news feed whether or not they are priority. Based on toggling between the selection options news feed will either display messages from all contacts or only from the user s priority contacts. Interface further includes a filter for toggling between displaying all content from all contacts or only displaying content from popular social posts. In addition in at least certain embodiments it is possible to display the communications received by the system in a manner such that all social media communications from all contacts are displayed while the direct email or text communications are filtered based on priority contacts. Conversely in other embodiments it is possible to display all the direct email and text communications from all contacts while the social media communications are filtered based on priority contacts. A filter is also provided to toggle between accounts for display of messages in the news feed or to display messages from all accounts as described herein . A user may also manage his or her accounts using filter and may post messages or photos to one or more of the selected accounts of filter using the provided fields .

Provided below are descriptions of some devices and components of those devices that may be used in the systems and methods described above. These devices may be used for instance to receive transmit process or store data related to any of the functionality described above. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the devices described below may have only some of the components described below or may have additional components. Embodiments may be practiced with various computer system configurations such as hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable user electronics minicomputers mainframe computers or similar systems. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

As shown the data processing system includes a system bus which is coupled to a microprocessor a Read Only Memory ROM a volatile Random Access Memory RAM as well as other nonvolatile memory . In the illustrated embodiment microprocessor is coupled to cache memory . System bus can be adapted to interconnect these various components together and also interconnect components and to a display controller and display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices . Types of I O devices can include keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras or other devices well known in the art. Typically I O devices are coupled to the system bus through I O controllers . In one embodiment the I O controller includes a Universal Serial Bus USB adapter for controlling USB peripherals or other type of bus adapter.

RAM can be implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. The other nonvolatile memory can be a magnetic hard drive magnetic optical drive optical drive DVD RAM or other type of memory system that maintains data after power is removed from the system. While shows that nonvolatile memory as a local device coupled with the rest of the components in the data processing system it will be appreciated by skilled artisans that the described techniques may use a nonvolatile memory remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled with the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface not shown .

Embodiments may also be in the form of computer code stored on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media can also be adapted to store computer instructions which when executed by a computer or other data processing system such as data processing system are adapted to cause the system to perform operations according to the techniques described herein. Computer readable media can include any mechanism that stores information in a form accessible by a data processing device such as a computer network device tablet smartphone or any device having similar functionality. Examples of computer readable media include any type of tangible article of manufacture capable of storing information thereon such as a hard drive floppy disk DVD CD ROM magnetic optical disk ROM RAM EPROM EEPROM flash memory and equivalents thereto a magnetic or optical card or any type of media suitable for storing electronic data. Computer readable media can also be distributed over a network coupled computer system which can be stored or executed in a distributed fashion.

In at least certain embodiments users can manually override their list of priority contacts in graphical interface . Users can add contacts to the listing of priority contacts by selecting contacts from listing to be added. Likewise the listing of priority contacts is provided to allow users to view their priority contacts and to manually delete them if desired using delete tab . User interface is not intended to be limiting as other visual configurations or arrangements are possible for presenting priority contacts to users and for enabling them to manually add or delete priority contacts as desired.

With these embodiments in mind it will be apparent from this description that aspects of the described techniques may be embodied at least in part in software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. It should also be understood that embodiments can employ various computer implemented functions involving data stored in a data processing system. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer or other data processing system in response executing sequences of instructions stored in memory. In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used independently or in combination with software instructions to implement these techniques. For instance the described functionality may be performed by specific hardware components containing hardwired logic for performing operations or by any combination of custom hardware components and programmed computer components. The techniques described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Throughout the foregoing description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details were set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to persons skilled in the art that these embodiments may be practiced without some of these specific details. Accordingly the scope and spirit of the invention should be judged in terms of the claims which follow as well as the legal equivalents thereof.

