---

title: Methods and systems for transmitting synchronized visual and audio media
abstract: Systems and methods according to the present invention provide methods, devices and systems for delivering media content to users. Broadcast audio and video streams can be synchronized for substantially simultaneous output by users. User feedback can be used to compose playlists of synchronized media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456020&OS=09456020&RS=09456020
owner: HILLCREST LABORATORIES, INC.
number: 09456020
owner_city: Rockville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130725
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 126 812 filed on Jun. 6 2011 entitled Methods and Systems for Transmitting Synchronized Visual and Audio Media which is a 371 of International Application No. PCT US2009 063374 filed Nov. 5 2009 now International Publication No. WO 2010 054060 which published May 14 2010 which is related to and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 112 230 filed on Nov. 7 2008 entitled Methods and Systems for Transmitting Synchronized Visual and Audio Media the disclosure of which is incorporated here by reference.

The present invention generally relates to systems devices software and methods for transmitting and receiving media.

Technologies associated with the communication of information have evolved rapidly over the last several decades. Television cellular telephony the Internet and optical communication techniques to name just a few things combine to inundate consumers with available information and entertainment options. Taking television as an example the last three decades have seen the introduction of cable television service satellite television service pay per view movies and video on demand. Whereas television viewers of the 1960s could typically receive perhaps four or five over the air TV channels on their television sets today s TV watchers have the opportunity to select from hundreds thousands and potentially millions of channels of shows and information. Video on demand technology currently used primarily in hotels and the like provides the potential for in home entertainment selection from among thousands of movie titles.

As technology continues to move forward both the control systems and the physical pipelines for delivering information have improved to the point that service providers are delivering more services to more platforms. For example audio and visual media can be delivered to phones movies can be streamed from a server to computer or television for viewing over the Internet and other communication networks and interactive requests can be sent from individual users over various devices for a variety of services e.g. purchases via credit card and polling information. Some of these new options have led people to rethink business models when using the Internet and or other networks for delivering services. For example there is a growing movement from more traditional Internet business models e.g. models that rely upon publishing to those that use a newer philosophy such as for example participation models. One way to describe the differences between these models is to consider that publishing models generally rely upon internal resources for all of the database knowledge filling associated with the service offering whereas participation models allow a company to rely upon the users for all or parts of the database knowledge filling associated with the service offering which can in turn be used for revenue generation.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide new methods devices and systems for delivering media content to users which may take into consideration such paradigm shifts.

According to exemplary embodiments a method for broadcasting synchronized photographs and music to a plurality of devices includes generating program contents wherein the program contents include information associated with the synchronized photographs and music which are related to a specific topic transmitting a first control signal toward a photo server transmitting a second control signal toward an audio server transmitting a playlist toward the plurality of devices transmitting a first multicast broadcast from the photo server in response to the first control signal transmitting a second multicast broadcast from the audio server in response to the second control signal providing interactive content in the first multicast receiving uploaded photographs at the photo server for use in generating the program contents and synchronizing the first and second multicast broadcasts.

According to exemplary embodiments a method for delivering visual and audio media content includes generating program contents wherein the program contents include information associated with the visual and audio media transmitting a plurality of control signals delivering the visual and audio media via multicast signaling providing interactive content and synchronizing the visual and audio media.

According to exemplary embodiments a device for controlling media content delivery includes a processor which reads master program lists and based upon the master program lists generates instructions for delivering synchronized photographs and music via multicast signaling an interface for transmitting the instructions and receiving information and a memory for storing information associated with the master program lists wherein the device supports a web page which allows for two way interactions.

The following detailed description of the exemplary embodiments refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention. Instead the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

In order to provide some context for this discussion an exemplary network is presented for receiving and delivering media content as shown in . According to exemplary embodiments network includes user devices e.g. cell phone web television TV and computer which are capable of transmitting and receiving both media content and control information from media content server s and control function . These communications can be transmitted over other networks such as the Internet and a communication network which the end user devices are currently associated with. While communication network and the Internet are shown more fewer or different networks can be used for delivering information between media content server s and control function and the end user devices shown in . Examples of the media content which can be transmitted over exemplary network are audio and video media which are synchronized with each other when displayed at an end user device e.g. cell phone . Additionally the data can be transmitted in multiple forms such as for example Internet Protocol IP packets.

According to exemplary embodiments media content server s and control function as shown in is a representation of the various servers communication links databases and control function hardware software which can be used to both generate and control the outgoing media content as well as handle incoming requests. A more detailed exemplary embodiment for the media content server s and control function will now be described with respect to .

According to exemplary embodiments media content server s and control function includes the elements shown to the right of dashed line i.e. a photo server a control server an audio server and a program content function . Photo server represents one or more servers which have photographs and or video stored therein and which can stream or otherwise deliver such media upon command e.g. such as the servers available at www.flickr.com. Audio server represents one or more servers which have audio files e.g. music and spoken content stored therein and which can stream or otherwise deliver such media content. Control server is a server which controls the program flow according to these exemplary embodiments and ensures that the audio files are in synchronization with the photographs or video when displayed and heard by an end user device e.g. cell phone . Program content function stores the desired programming and in conjunction with the control server generates instructions and information regarding current and upcoming programming for viewing by an end user. Additionally the program control function allows for direct interaction by a person to modify or personalize upcoming programming as desired. The Internet provides a communications interface between the photo server the control server and the audio server to end user devices. However other communication networks could be used in place of or in addition to the Internet . Communications associated with the media content that occur between the Internet and other networks and end user devices are shown by communication link .

According to exemplary embodiments using the hardware and communication links shown in visual media e.g. photographs and audio media e.g. music can be delivered to an end user device to be displayed and heard in a synchronized manner. Initially according to this exemplary embodiment program information is transmitted from the program content function to the control server . From this a playlist can be transmitted from the control server to end user devices e.g. cell phone web TV and computer when accessed by an end user device for viewing. User generated requests or other information e.g. information requests off of a service home page or polling information can be received by the control server and processed as needed. From the playlist various channels each of which is related to a topic can be selected. This selection then allows the end user device to join the two multicasts e.g. an audio channel and visual media channel associated with the selected channel where both multicasts are synchronized to deliver the correct visual media and its associated audio. Alternatively if photo server and audio server are implemented as a single server each channel could be implemented as a single multicast including both audio and video content.

The photos are transmitted from the photo server toward an end user device. In a similar fashion the audio content associated with the selected program and photos is transmitted from the audio server . In this exemplary system photos are pushed and audio is pulled. Control signaling is used to assist in synchronization and to ensure that the desired media content as described in the program information is being transmitted. Song synchronization information is transmitted from the control server and the program content function to the audio server . Additionally URLs to the photographs are sent to the control server from the photo server to assist in the overall transmission and synchronization of the media content being transmitted from the various media servers.

According to exemplary embodiments audio e.g. music is synchronized with the visual media content e.g. photos and output on an end user device as part of a broadcast service which potentially will be shared by a large number of users as part of a social network. This synchronization can occur through the use of various methods used in various combinations as desired. Some methods to support synchronization include buffering control signaling knowledge of audio file lengths and bandwidth management techniques. Multiple audio servers can be used each of which can be synchronized with the master playlist associated with each program. Additionally feedback can be received from end user devices to determine transmission factors e.g. transmission lag. Knowledge of the transmission lag and other bandwidth considerations can allow the control server to instruct end user devices as needed to skip the downloading of some photographs as needed to maintain synchronization with the audio file.

The above described exemplary architecture can be used for two way communications between end user devices and media content server s and control function for delivering synchronized audio and visual media content. For example according to exemplary embodiments consider a service provider named Story Channel which can provide multiple channels of synchronized audio and visual media content in a multicast format to a large number of end users. An end user can connect with Story Channel by for example typing in Story Channel s Uniform Resource Locator URL e.g. www.storychannel.com. This would result in the end user having a plurality of channels to choose from on the user interface UI of his or her end user device each of which are providing synchronized audio and visual media content. This service could additionally have interactive elements where end users can upload photos request channels vote for future content and the like.

From the service provider end additional interaction can occur by informing connected end users of upcoming events upcoming and currently existing voting options interactions with advertisements and the like. This combination of synchronized audio and visual media content coupled with interactive elements provide the ability to deliver new services which the end user could consider themselves a part of. In other words the end users could have the ability to impact the delivered content or shape the manner in which the content is delivered in ways that are different from current services. More details regarding exemplary methods and systems for creating this interactive opportunity and the synchronized audio and visual media content will be described below.

Continuing with the Story Channel example when users access Story Channel various options can be presented to them. According to exemplary embodiments the home page of Story Channel can have links and or controls for a program guide archives directions for photo uploading upcoming votes the ability to vary the amount of space on the display taken by the photograph advertisers and the like. Alternatively some of this information could be shown immediately on the end user device s display instead of requiring the use of a link to access the information. To describe what the process may be like for a user to access media content and the associated experience according to an exemplary embodiment will now be described.

According to exemplary embodiments when users access Story Channel they can access a broadcast program guide via a display on their end user device an example of which is shown in . Program guide shows a snapshot of channels having programming information and associated broadcasting time. These channels are typically broadcasting photographs and synchronized music which are related to the topic listed in program guide for each channel. For example channel is multicasting pictures and synchronized music associated with Ireland at 1000. In addition to the pictures and music being associated with Ireland the pictures and music can have additional tags which link them together or to other pictures. For example an Irish golf course photograph could have tags for golf and Ireland which can also be linked with different programs and music. Assuming a user wants to access the Ireland broadcast they could click on the channel number click on the program Ireland or the like for activating content.

According to exemplary embodiments after clicking on the Ireland broadcast the end user device joins the multicasts and begins to receive the current photograph and associated synchronized music an example of which is shown in . shows a picture of an old Irish Bridge and while not seen Irish tagged music is playing . Other photographs associated with Ireland in the program file for this program would be sent out over the multicast in a manner which is synchronized with the pre selected Irish music. Preferably song changes will coincide with a picture change but not necessarily with each picture change. Additionally various bugs can pop up on the photographs for differing time periods showing additionally information. For example as shown in a bug showing the channel name Ireland and information regarding the photograph title or description and the photographer or photograph submitter can be shown. Additionally more information can be shown overlaid on a displayed photograph on the end user device s display or adjacent to the displayed photograph such as the current song name. As another example when nearing the end of a song information can be displayed to show the next song name or when nearing the end of a program displaying to show what is coming up next as shown in . Alternatively between songs or at other desired times the schedule for the currently selected channel e.g. channel schedule can be shown as seen in .

According to other exemplary embodiments as the Ireland slideshow is nearing its end a bug can appear on the screen which shows the channel schedule but in a reduced format so that it preferably does not cover other information or the picture currently displayed. When the final photograph in this slideshow is over which has a song ending at approximately the same time the photo slideshow goes to a default screen e.g. a black screen and a title appears for the next slideshow in this case Croatia 2008 Euro Champions Congratulations is displayed. New pictures and songs are delivered to the end user device relating to this topic as have been previously programmed. At some time or times during this slideshow a reminder bug can be displayed reminding the viewers that they can vote for the next slideshow. In this case the next program is a user city choice slideshow with the options of London Madrid or Berlin based upon the highest vote tally. Each user can then click on the bug which then allows them to cast their vote.

Upon tallying the votes at the control server suppose that it is determined that London won the vote. According to exemplary embodiments the control server coordinates the activities of the photo server and audio server such that the programmed selection London is broadcast to all end users connected to this multicast channel e.g. with a song associated with London e.g. London Calling being streamed from audio server and pictures associated with London being streamed from photo or video server . The control server can also update the playlist to reflect the voted in program. Again partway through the slideshow a reminder bug can appear reminding people that in for example 10 minutes the next slideshow begins titled Europe today . Additionally the bug can prompt users to submit their pictures of Europe prior to the program start time for possible inclusion in the program. These pictures can come from currently taken photos from a cell phone a digital camera or stored pictures. Additionally options can be provided for the submitter photographer to submit their name and or a title of the photograph. These pictures could be filtered automatically as directed by software and hardware associated with program content function or manually by a person.

Additionally either software or a person possibly in conjunction with a database e.g. program content function can create tags for the pictures for denoting association with previously tagged songs or vice versa. For example pictures of London could be tagged with London or England and pictures of the Alps could be tagged with European Mountains and mapped to appropriate songs. As can be seen a variety of methods exist for associating photographs with songs and creating a plurality of programs as desired from these various combinations. All such variations for linking photographs with songs for creating programs should be considered to be within the scope of these exemplary embodiments. Additionally such exemplary features can be used to create digital dedications for special events e.g. Croatia 2008 Euro Champions Congratulations for individuals or for businesses.

According to other exemplary embodiments advertisements can be shown on Story Channel. Links advertising advertisements or banners can be displayed on any of the pages associated with Story Channel or as part of a multicast. For example while watching and listening to the Ireland broadcast advertisements can appear between photos with audio as desired which are timed to match song endings during photos if the advertisement is a silent advertisement and or between programs. These advertisements could be traditional advertisements shown on TV or advertisements tailored to the specific media content being seen and heard by the end user. Alternatively as an interactive use user created advertisements could be uploaded filtered and displayed as desired.

According to another exemplary embodiment multiple multicast channels can be used for the same program. For example a first multicast channel for Rock could have photographs at a high resolution being transmitted while a second multicast channel for Rock could transmit photographs at a lower resolution. When an end user device joins the Rock channel information is transmitted between the end user device e.g. cell phone and the control server for directing the end user device to join the channel which best matches its photo or video viewing capabilities. Additionally bandwidth of the connection can also be used in making the determination of which Rock multicast channel to join.

According to another exemplary embodiment visual and audio media content can be transmitted as a unicast. The above described exemplary systems and methods can be performed in a similar manner but over a unicast channel instead of a multicast channel.

The exemplary embodiments described above provide for visual and audio media content to be delivered to end user devices in a synchronized manner as well as allowing interactive functions. An exemplary communications node which can perform the functions of the control server will now be described with respect to . Communications node can contain a processor or multiple processor cores a memory one or more secondary storage devices and an interface unit to facilitate communications between communications node and other networks and devices. Processor typically in conjunction with software on a computer readable medium is capable of performing the controls to coordinate photo server audio server program content function and various end user devices for keeping the visual and audio media in acceptable synchronization. Additionally communications node is capable of handling user requests accepting processing instructions for filtering images performing the duties of a web hosting service for services such as Story Channel as described above.

Using the above described exemplary embodiments a method for broadcasting multimedia is provided. Initially a method for broadcasting synchronized photographs and music to a plurality of devices includes generating program contents wherein the program contents include information associated with the synchronized photographs and music which are related to a specific topic in step transmitting a first control signal toward a photo server in step transmitting a second control signal toward an audio server in step transmitting a playlist toward the plurality of devices in step transmitting a first multicast broadcast from the photo server in response to the first control signal in step transmitting a second multicast broadcast from the audio server in response to the second control signal in step providing interactive content in the first multicast in step receiving uploaded photographs at the photo server for use in generating the program contents in step and synchronizing the first and second multicast broadcasts in step .

As described above the hardware and communication links shown in can be used to deliver media to an end user. Additionally according to exemplary embodiments these communication links and hardware can be used to allow for two way interactions to occur with an end user device. For example uplinked photographs can be sent from an end user device to photo server . Additionally requests or other information can be sent from end user devices. For example requests could include queries from an end user device to access various links associated with the web site of the service provider or responses to voting questions.

The above described exemplary embodiments are intended to be illustrative in all respects rather than restrictive of the present invention. Thus the present invention is capable of many variations in detailed implementation that can be derived from the description contained herein by a person skilled in the art. For example the above described systems and methods could be used on other displays such as dummy terminals in an office as a screen saver or even on an electronic billboard. All such variations and modifications are considered to be within the scope and spirit of the present invention as defined by the following claims. No element act or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items.

