---

title: Multi comb generation with a mode locked laser cavity
abstract: Apparatus, systems, and methods of generating multi combs can be used in a variety of applications. In various embodiments, an etalon can be disposed in the laser cavity of a mode-locked laser to adjust frequency combs. Additional apparatus, systems, and methods are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08929408&OS=08929408&RS=08929408
owner: STC.UNM
number: 08929408
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130122
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 589 747 filed 23 Jan. 2012 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under grant number ECS0925526 awarded by the National Science Foundation NSF . The United States Government has certain rights to the invention.

The invention relates generally to frequency combs and to systems and devices for the generation and or use of the same.

An optical frequency comb is an optical spectrum of equidistant lines. The use of frequency combs as a tool may depend on the spacing between teeth lines of the comb. Mode locked lasers can provide accurate frequency combs. A mode locked laser produces a stream of identical pulses which can have a duration of only several femtoseconds at a repetition rate typically in the range of 70 to 150 MHz. In the frequency domain the laser output consists of a frequency comb having equidistant lines. Because these lines are exactly equally spaced this frequency comb can be used as a ruler for optical frequencies. Given an atomic line frequency standard as reference this ruler can be used in principle to determine with absolute accuracy and high precision the optical frequency of any optical source by comparing beating the frequency of that source with the closest line of the ruler and counting the teeth lines of the comb that span the difference between the frequency standard and the unknown source. For this type of measurement to be practical there should be line indicators tickmarks spaced by much more than the typical 100 MHz of a Ti sapphire mode locked laser similar to a ruler for length measurements for example in which there are different tickmarks for 1 mm 1 cm 10 cm and 1 m. The need for such instrumentation having tickmarks ranges from measurements of atomic lines and physical constants to accurate monitoring of spectral lines in astronomy.

There have been various attempts to increase tooth spacing. In the articles Fabry Perot filter cavities for wide spaced frequency combs with large spectral bandwidth T. Steinmetz T. Wilken C. Araujo Hauck R. Holzwarth T. W. Humlaut over ansch and T. Udem 96 251 256 2009 and Multiplying the repetition rate of passive mode locked femtosecond lasers by an intracavity flat surface with low reflectivity T. M. Liu F. X. Kartner J. G. Fujimoto and C. K. Sun. 30 439 441 2005 a proposed method to increase tooth spacing has included the use of a Fabry Perot cavity to multiplex the pulse train from a mode locked laser. The shortcomings of this method are threefold. First because the device is passive the average power is reduced. Additional amplification may be required. Second because of the unavoidable cavity dispersion the unequal spacing of the Fabry Perot modes defeats the purpose of a comb of absolute accuracy. Even when the cavity is in vacuum there will be dispersion due to the mirror coatings. Finally matching the carrier to envelope offset CEO of the driving laser and slave cavity requires sophisticated stabilization methods. The CEO is the tooth frequency of the extended comb closest to zero frequency. Equivalently it is also the change in carrier phase with respect to the envelope from pulse to pulse divided by the time between two successive pulses. The CEO is an important parameter of pulse trains related to the change in phase from pulse to pulse in the train.

Another approach has included the use of the properties of the mode locked laser in making combs of perfect spacing by combining a driving laser with a slave laser rather than passive cavity. In another approach as discussed in the article by Liu et al. mentioned above the insertion of a low reflectivity 4 interface inside a mode locked laser cavity to multiplex its repetition rate has been proposed. However such an approach may be difficult as the alignment of the reflecting face is extremely critical it has to be perfectly parallel to the output coupler and its position has to be located at an exact fraction of the cavity length.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration and not limitation various example embodiments of the invention. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice these and other embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural logical and electrical changes may be made to these embodiments. The various embodiments are not necessarily mutually exclusive as some embodiments can be combined with one or more other embodiments to form new embodiments. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

In various embodiments measurement line indicators herein referred to as tickmarks are provided in a controllable fashion. In an implementation the tickmarks are a multiple of the frequency spacing of the teeth of the original comb. In another implementation the tickmarks have a common multiple with those of the original comb thereby providing accurate reading over a broader frequency range as is done with a Vernier caliper in distance measurements. Such tickmarks may be provided by placing a repetition rate multiplier into a mode locked laser cavity.

A Fabry Perot etalon FPE can be inserted into a mode locked laser cavity where the FPE functions as a repetition rate multiplier. For example an uncoated fused silica FPE can be inserted into a standard titanium sapphire mode locked laser cavity. Using a 15 mm thick FPE etalon in such a titanium sapphire mode locked laser cavity the output of the laser can consist of bursts of 15 pulses at around 6.8 GHz repeating at the cavity round trip frequency of 256 MHz. In the frequency domain there is a 6.8 GHz frequency comb with a set of sidebands which can be referred to as a bunch of sidebands around each tooth of the comb separated by 256 MHz. The theoretical modeling of the frequency structure of this intertwined comb is rather complex which is discussed below.

There are numerous controls that can be applied to control the parameters of the intertwined comb of a laser cavity operable as a mode locked laser cavity with an intracavity etalon. The wavelength of the laser can be controlled by the Fabry Perot etalon where the combs of modes translate uniformly with the angle of the Fabry Perot etalon. The high frequency of the mode locked laser can be finely and continuously tuned by tilting the Fabry Perot etalon. For example the high frequency of 6.8 GHz provided by the abovementioned titanium sapphire mode locked laser can be finely and continuously tuned by tilting the Fabry Perot etalon. Coarse tuning of the high frequency can be provided by the Fabry Perot etalon thickness.

Tilting the Fabry Perot etalon can result in a tuning of the laser repetition rate sideband spacing . Another control mechanism can be provided by the laser gain where the sideband spacing laser original repetition rate can be tuned by adjusting the laser gain. Coarse tuning of the sideband spacing can be provided by the laser cavity length. Another control mechanism can be provided by controlling the number of pulses in the high frequency burst where the number of pulses in the high frequency burst can be adjusted through the reflectivity of the faces of the Fabry Perot etalon.

There is a carrier to envelope offset CEO associated with the repeating burst. The center of gravity of the successive bunches of pulse in time moves from bunch to bunch with respect to the Fabry Perot etalon modes. This can be finely tuned by adjusting the Fabry Perot angle the gain or both.

These control mechanisms or control knobs can make for a frequency comb of unique flexibility. These control knobs may provide the capability to reach high frequency comb spacing that was thought to be only achievable with ultra short laser cavities.

The pulse train and frequency comb generated from a laser such as shown in have very unique features. With a reflection coefficient of only 4 per face one would not expect that a pulse train is generated. However as the rapidly decaying bunch created by a first pulse cycles through the cavity the energy of the first pulse is progressively transferred to the following pulse while the gain condition of the laser maintains the energy in the bunch constant. The continuous energy transfer from the pulses at the leading part of the bunch to the trailing part results in a slowing down of the group velocity of the bunch envelope. Computer simulation confirms indeed that a symmetric bunch of pulses is formed with a reduced group velocity in agreement with the measurement of with respect to the uncoated fused silica FPE inserted into the standard titanium sapphire mode locked laser cavity. shows a temporal profile of a pulse train recorded with a fast photodetector and an 8 GHz oscilloscope. The detection cannot time resolve the ultra short laser pulses. Gain dynamics has the effect of speeding up the bunch of pulses by providing gain to the leading part at the expense of the trailing part saturated gain . As a result the repetition rate of the bunch has a gain dependence that is enhanced as compared to that without an intracavity etalon as indicated in . shows dependence of the repetition rate on the pump intensity without an intracavity etalon. shows dependence of the repetition rate on the pump intensity with an intracavity etalon.

Due to the difference between the pulse bunch velocity and the group velocity a radio frequency rf spectrum of the pulse train shows an unusual offset frequency which is analogous to the well known carrier to envelope offset frequency of usual frequency combs. This offset frequency is present not only in the base modes but also in the second order modes whose positions are given by an integer multiple of the repetition rate plus the offset frequency.

There are several features that arise from the dependence of the optical frequency and repetition rate on the tilt of the Fabry Perot etalon. Consider that shows light incident at Fabry Perot etalon having a thickness d where Fabry Perot etalon can be inserted in the laser cavity of . The light is incident at point a having an internal angle with transmission Tfrom point b with angle . The transmission at point a corresponds to the incident light and transmission Tfrom point c corresponds to transmission from Fabry Perot etalon after two reflections within Fabry Perot etalon .

With respect to the following discussions considering Fabry Perot cavity inserted in the laser cavity of nis the phase index of Fabry Perot cavity nis the group index of Fabry Perot cavity nis the phase index averaged over the whole laser cavity in which Fabry Perot cavity is inserted and nis the group index averaged over the whole laser cavity. Fabry Perot cavity sets the k vector of the light through the resonance condition 2cos 2 1 where n is an index of refraction of the material of Fabry Perot cavity and N is an integer. This relationship relates the k vector to the index n and thickness d according to cos 2 which implies that the optical frequency is cos . 3 The resonance condition of the laser cavity which can be referred to as the big laser cavity since it includes the inserted Fabry Perot cavity is the condition that there should be an integer number of wavelengths in the big laser cavity 2 or 2 2or 2 2 4 where nis the average wavelength in the cavity that is the vacuum wavelength divided by the phase index averaged over the cavity length. As the frequency of the laser is imposed with the Fabry Perot the parameter that changes to keep the big cavity resonant is the optical path length L itself. This change is a minuscule re alignment of the transverse mode to accommodate a cavity length that fits the resonance condition. The wavefront makes the mode which will readjust itself a change L

Inserting the imposed by the FP in equation 4 gives cos . 5 Equation 5 can be used in the expression for group delay 2 6 generating 2 2cos 7 Considering here only the dependence in it is noted that the pump power will change the value of n a change that is independent of the angle . For the small changes in angle to be considered M N constant INT L d . Therefore equation 7 simplifies to 2 2cos 8 In this equation since the laser cavity includes the Fabry Perot L itself has an angular dependence 

It is clear from the above considerations that the Fabry Perot etalon controls the frequency of the modes of the Fabry Perot etalon itself as well as the frequency of the modes of the laser. This frequency tuning is continuous. When performing experiment of optical pumping of narrow atomic resonances data of fluorescence versus angle shows repeated resonances making it appear as if there is a discontinuity in frequency tuning. However this apparent discontinuity in frequency tuning is incorrect. The mode frequency translates continuously and the resonance is re established when a previous mode reaches the frequency of the next mode.

From the above discussions it has been established that the bunch from the Fabry Perot etalon repeats itself through the cavity. From the discussion about the dependence of the repetition rate of the bunch on the Fabry Perot angle it is clear that the absolute value and the pump power dependence are not related to the Fabry Perot angle. In other words there is no set ratio of the repetition rate of the Fabry Perot cavity and that of the big cavity.

This bunch is repeating with delay between successive bunches. If the sine wave approximation is used for the bunch 

Consider now the complete discrete Fourier expansion of the bunch. For the qpulse delayed by q the following is obtained 15 Summing over q the infinite series of imaginary exponentials leads to functions 

The architecture of can be modified including using multiple intracavity etalons. As shown in multiple Fabry Perot etalons . . . N N being a positive integer can be disposed in a laser cavity having gain medium . Though shows Fabry Perot etalons . . . N with the same spacing d Fabry Perot etalons . . . N need have not the same thickness spacing . In addition each of Fabry Perot etalons . . . N may be constructed of different materials with different etalon characteristics.

In various embodiments a system comprises a laser cavity structured to operate as a mode locked laser cavity and a Fabry Perot etalon disposed in the laser cavity. The Fabry Perot etalon disposed in the mode locked laser cavity provides capability to reach high frequency comb spacing without using an ultra short laser cavity. For example a Fabry Perot etalon in a mode locked laser cavity can generate high frequency combs in the GHz range in meter long laser cavity having the appropriate gain medium. With a Fabry Perot etalon added in the mode locked laser cavity gain and gain saturation create a pulse train. Because of the gain and gain saturation the bursts move faster increasing the repetition rate. Depending on the laser structure with a Fabry Perot inserted change of the repetition rate as function of pump power may be 100 times that of the empty cavity. Also repetition rate of the laser changes with the Fabry Perot etalon angle providing a control mechanism. A Fabry Perot etalon in a mode locked laser cavity can fine tune the carrier frequency for spectroscopic applications can be used for intracavity pulse shaping and can be used for fine tuning of the laser repetition rate among other things.

The system having a Fabry Perot etalon disposed in a mode locked laser cavity can have a number of components and characteristics realized either independently or with various permutations of such components and characteristics. The system can include a driver to set a tilt angle of the Fabry Perot etalon the tilt angle being referenced to a propagation axis of the laser cavity. The system can include a control unit coupled to the driver where the control unit is operable to tilt the Fabry Perot etalon such that a laser repetition rate of a laser formed by the laser cavity and the Fabry Perot etalon can be tuned. The Fabry Perot etalon can be selected to have a thickness correlated to provide a tuning of a frequency the frequency corresponding to a frequency of a laser corresponding to the laser cavity without the Fabry Perot etalon. The system can have a gain control to adjust laser gain such that a repetition rate of a laser corresponding to the laser cavity without the Fabry Perot etalon can be tuned. The gain control can regulate pump power of a pump laser to the laser cavity having the Fabry Perot etalon disposed therein. The gain control can include an electro optic attenuator. The system can be structured to provide tuning of a repetition rate of a laser corresponding to the laser cavity without the Fabry Perot etalon based a laser cavity length of the laser cavity. The system can include a drive control to adjust one or more ends of the laser cavity. The system can include the Fabry Perot etalon structured with faces having a reflectivity selected to generate a specific number of pulses in a high frequency burst from the laser cavity. The system can include one or more additional Fabry Perot etalons disposed in the laser cavity. The system can include a drive control to adjust spacing of the Fabry Perot etalon depending on the type of Fabry Perot etalon implemented.

In various embodiments features of an example method can comprise generating high frequency comb structures from a mode locked laser where the mode locked laser has a laser cavity in which a Fabry Perot etalon is disposed. Variations of the method using a Fabry Perot etalon disposed in a mode locked laser cavity can include use of a number of components characteristics and processes realized either independently or with various permutations of such components characteristics and processes. With the inserted Fabry Perot etalon coupled comb structures can be generated in a single laser cavity. The laser cavity can have a length of a meter. The method can include tilting the Fabry Perot etalon to tune the carrier frequency. The method can include generating the high frequency comb structures in a spectroscopic application. The method can include adjusting the Fabry Perot etalon to provide intracavity pulse shaping. The method can include adjusting spacing of the Fabry Perot etalon providing tuning of the frequency of the mode locked laser depending on the type of Fabry Perot etalon used. The method can include tilting the Fabry Perot etalon providing a tuning of a laser repetition rate of the mode locked laser. The method can include adjusting laser gain such that a repetition rate associated with the mode locked laser without the Fabry Perot is tuned. Adjusting laser gain can include controlling pump power to a pump laser. Adjusting laser gain can include using an electro optic attenuator. The method can include adjusting a laser cavity length of the laser cavity to tune a repetition rate associated with the mode locked laser. The method can include adjusting spacing of the Fabry Perot etalon to tune a repetition rate associated with mode locked laser.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. Upon studying the disclosure it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the devices and methods of various embodiments of the invention. Various embodiments can use permutations and or combinations of embodiments described herein. Other embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the embodiments disclosed herein. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive and that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description.

