---

title: Trusted security zone communication addressing on an electronic device
abstract: A method of communicating with a computing device having a trusted security zone comprises mapping a unique identifier for a computing device with a trust zone access control (TZAC) address, composing a message comprising the trust zone access control address, and routing the message to the computing device based on the unique identifier. The computing device comprises a normal security zone and a trusted security zone that is separate from the normal security zone, and the trust zone access control address is a unique identifier associated with a hardware component of the trusted security zone within the computing device. The message is internally routed to the trusted security zone within the computing device using on the trust zone access control address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191388&OS=09191388&RS=09191388
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09191388
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Mobile communication devices in the future are expected to store or embody a variety of applications that may interact with confidential information such as credit card numbers bank account numbers authentication numbers personal data medical information and the like. Additionally mobile communication devices may promote users installing after market applications that may be infiltrated by malware such as viruses trojans screen scrapers keyboard monitors and other nefarious software and or firmware.

In an embodiment a method of communicating with a computing device having a trusted security zone comprises mapping an identifier for a computing device with a trust zone access control TZAC address composing a message comprising the trust zone access control address and routing the message to the computing device based on the identifier. The computing device comprises a normal security zone and a trusted security zone that is separate from the normal security zone and the trust zone access control address is a unique identifier associated with a hardware component of the trusted security zone within the computing device. The message is internally routed to the trusted security zone within the computing device using on the trust zone access control address.

In an embodiment a method of communicating over a network comprises receiving a message at a computing device internally providing the message to the trusted security zone based on the trust zone access control address and processing the message within the trusted security zone. The message comprises a routing address and a trust zone access control address and the routing address comprises information configured to route the message to the computing device. The trust zone access control address is a unique identifier associated with a hardware component of a trusted security zone within the computing device.

In an embodiment a computing device comprises a modem a trust zone access control address encoded into at least one of the processor or the memory and a processor having a trusted security zone and a normal security zone a trusted security zone application that when executed on the processor configures the processor to block access by other applications executing in the normal security zone of the processor from accessing a memory reading inputs and writing outputs while the trusted security zone application executes in the trusted security zone. The trust zone access control address is a unique identifier associated with the at least one of the processor or the memory.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

A computing device or electronic device having a trusted security zone that comprises a Trust Zone Access Control TZAC address associated with a hardware component of the trusted security zone is described. The computing device can be a mobile device such as a mobile phone a personal digital assistant a media player or other. The computing device may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer or other computer. The computing device may be embedded inside another system for example in a printer in a biometric measurement device in an automobile dashboard e.g. a head unit and or telemetrics unit in a communication system component or any other system having a processor and performing a computing function. The computing device may be coupled to a network by a wireless link and or by a wired link.

The computing device may be manufactured by an original equipment manufacturer with a processor having a normal security zone and a trusted security zone. In some contexts the normal security zone may be referred to as a normal partition. The trusted security zone may operate in a secure mode that prevents communication with any outside processes. The execution of the trusted security zone within the secure mode may make communication with applications and components of the trusted security zone difficult if not impossible which is an intended result of the trusted security zone architecture. However it may be desirable to communicate with the trusted security zone to modify a setting modify an application or add or remove various software components remotely. In order to communicate with and or access the trusted security zone remotely a network on which the computing device is operating may desirably be able to locate and or reference the trusted security zone on the network.

In order to make the trusted security zone locatable addressable and or accessible the trusted security zone may be provided with a TZAC address. For example the TZAC address may be supplied by the manufacturer during construction of the computing device. The TZAC address may comprise a unique identifier assigned to the trusted security zone for the computing device and may be assigned to one or more physical components of the trusted security zone. The TZAC address may allow a communication to be sent to the trusted security zone and the communication can be protected using one or more security techniques such as encryption. The TZAC address may be protected and known only by a network provider thereby providing further security for maintaining the integrity of the trusted security zone.

When a plurality of trusted security zones operate on a computing device each of the trusted security zones may have a TZAC address to allow selective communication with each trusted security zone. For example the different trusted security zones may be associated with different credit card accounts different banking accounts and different interface and application packs. A financial institution can modify the account information and or the interface and application packs by sending a communication through a network service provider. The network service provider can associate the TZAC address of the trusted security zone with the communication and forward the communication to the appropriate trusted security zone associated with the corresponding TZAC address. Based on the communication changes can be made to the information and or interface packs within the trusted security zone. The ability to direct communications to one or more trusted security zones may improve the ability to update the trusted security zone information and applications remotely.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. For example the trusted security zone may provide a secure execution environment for trusted application executing in the trusted security zone and trusted application executing in trusted security zone of . A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main computing device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. For more details on establishing trusted end to end communication links relying on hardware assisted security see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

While the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications or altering the trusted security zone information a communication with a suitable level of trust can be used to alter the information in the trusted security zone such as various settings information application interfaces and or application packs. For example a communication generated by a trusted source that is communicated with the appropriate layers of trust may be directed to the trusted security zone accepted by the trusted security zone and be allowed to execute and alter the trusted security zone. Such communications may be passed using a trusted end to end communication link documenting a continuity of trust.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a mobile device a base transceiver station BTS a network a trusted service manager server computer a trusted service manager data store and a computer . The communication system can also include a third party server that may be in communication with the network and or the trusted server managers server . It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile devices any number of base transceiver stations any number of trusted service manager servers and associated data stores any number of third party servers and or any number of computers . The network may comprise one or more public networks one or more private networks or a combination thereof.

The mobile device comprises a radio transceiver a modem a memory and a processor . The modem is configured to send and receive communications over the radio transceiver which is configured to establish a wireless communication link with the base transceiver station . The modem may comprise a MAC address which is a unique identifier associated with the hardware of the modem that may be used to communicate using the network according to one or more standards e.g. IEEE 802 standards . The base transceiver station may communicatively couple the radio transceiver and or the mobile device to the network and to devices that are connected to the network for example the trusted service manager server . In an embodiment the radio transceiver and the base transceiver station establish a wireless communication link according to one of a code division multiple access CDMA wireless protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless protocol or another wireless communication protocol.

The processor comprises a normal security zone and one or more trusted security zones . Under some circumstances the processor may periodically or occasionally switch between execution in the normal security zone and execution in one or more of the trusted security zones to check for any pending operations. For example when executing in the trusted security zone the processor may pause execution in the trusted security zone start execution in the normal security zone and check if any tasks are pending attention in the normal security zone for example receiving an email or an incoming text message. When the trusted security zone is executing a sensitive operation the processor may not switch to execute in the normal security zone even if a periodic or scheduled switch interval occurs and may defer this switch until the sensitive operation being performed in the trusted security zone is completed. While two trusted security zones are illustrated in only one trusted security zone may be present or more than two trusted security zones may be present. Also although illustrated in as separate in an embodiment the first trusted security zone and the second trusted security zone may be implemented as separate trusted containers within one trusted security zone or trusted partition.

The processor may be any of a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a complex programmable logic device CPLD or another type of processor. The processor may comprise a plurality of individual processor chips. The processor may comprise a single chip that encapsulates a plurality of independent logic processing units or processors for example a dual core processor or a quad core processor. In an embodiment one or more trusted security zones may be separately associated with each processor in a multi processor device or each core of the processor in a multi core processor. As described above when the trusted security zone executes an application the normal security zone is prevented from executing applications. The memory may store both normal applications and trusted applications where trusted applications are authorized for executing in one or more of the trusted security zones . Alternatively the memory may be segmented into a normal security portion and a trusted security portion and the trusted applications may be stored in the trusted security portion of the memory .

Each of the trusted security zones may have a corresponding TZAC address . The TZAC address may be a unique identifier assigned to the trusted security zone for the mobile device and the TZAC address may be assigned to one or more physical components of the trusted security zone such as a hardware component on which the trusted security zone or trusted execution environment is operating. In this sense the TZAC address may be similar to a MAC address associated with a physical network component except that the TZAC address may remain hidden and non discoverable. For example the TZAC address may only be used to direct and or allow a communication into the trusted security zone and may not be discoverable for example by being broadcast to the network where it could be intercepted and used to hack into the trusted security zone . The TZAC address may be unique to the hardware of the trusted security zone and may be encoded in the hardware e.g. a processor executing the trusted security zone by the manufacturer during production of the computing device such as the mobile device . In some embodiments the TZAC address may be referred to as a burned in TZAC address. The TZAC address may not be capable of being changed.

In an embodiment the trusted security zones can be manufactured by an original equipment manufacturer of processor for example a semiconductor manufacturer to have the two trusted security zones . While two trusted security zones are illustrated any number of trusted security zones may be present in the mobile device and one or more of the trusted security zones may have an associated TZAC address . For example a plurality of trusted security zones having corresponding TZAC addresses may be associated with a plurality of processors operating in a computing device and or they may be associated with a plurality of processor cores in a multi core processor operating in a computing device. The trusted security zones may be provisioned by the manufacturer with the trusted applications and a base layer of trusted security functionality or utilities. In an embodiment the trusted security zones may execute the same or different trusted applications.

The computer may comprise a memory a processor and a modem . The modem may be associated with a MAC address or other unique identifier. The processor may comprise a normal security zone and a trusted security zone . The trusted security zone is associated with a TZAC address . The memory the processor the normal security zone and the trusted security zone are substantially similar to the corresponding structures of the mobile device and will not be described separately herein. The main difference between the mobile device and the computer as it pertains to this disclosure is that the mobile device is communicatively coupled to the network by a wireless link and the computer may be communicatively coupled to the network by a wired link. In an embodiment however the computer may be communicatively coupled to the network by a wireless link such as by a wireless link to an access point in a wireless local area network WLAN that is part of the network . It is to be understood that the structures and functions described with reference to the trusted security zones of the mobile device apply equally to the trusted security zone of the computer .

The trusted service manager server may be associated with a network service provider or any other entity responsible for directing communications to a trusted security zone using a TZAC address respectively. The trusted service manager server may be configured to receive requests for communication with a trusted security zone verify the authenticity of the requests lookup a TZAC address in a data store append or encode the TZAC address to the communication and provide the communication to corresponding device where the communication can be routed to the trusted security zone associated with the TZAC address. Since the TZAC addresses may not be discoverable on the mobile device and or the computer a data store may be used to maintain a list of the TZAC addresses corresponding to each computing device. Providing a single source of oversight for the TZAC addresses in the data store may aid in maintaining the level of trust with communications containing the TZAC address .

The data store may maintain the TZAC addresses in a lookup table that associates the TZAC addresses with one or more identifiers for the corresponding device such as the mobile device or the computer . This may enable the appropriate routing of the communication to the corresponding device at which point the TZAC address as a unique hardware identifier may be used to route the communication to the corresponding trusted security zone within the device. In an embodiment the TZAC address may be stored in a lookup table that may be stored in the data store that associates the TZAC address with one or more unique identifier e.g. a routing reference for the computing device including but not limited to the MAC address of the modem or radio transceiver on the device a mobile equipment identifier MEID a mobile station identifier MSID a mobile directory number MDN a network access identifier NAI an electronic serial number ESN an international mobile equipment identity IMEI a private IP address a link layer address on a local area network or any combination thereof.

Referring to the system may be used to provide communications between the network and the mobile device and or the computer . While the remaining discussion is directed to the communications with the mobile device it is to be understood that the communications with the computer can be fully understood from the description of the communications with the mobile device . After the mobile device is placed into service a user may wish to provision additional information or an application into one or more of the trusted security zone . For example a financial institution responsible for the third party server may wish to provision a new financial interaction application into the first trusted security zone . The third party server may send a request with the new application and the identity of the mobile device to the trusted service manager server to provision the new application into the trusted security zone . The third party server may identify the mobile device using information provided by the use of the mobile device such as a mobile directory number for the mobile device .

Upon receiving the request the trusted service manager server may send a request to the data store to obtain the TZAC address of the trusted security zone . The request may comprise the identity of the mobile device obtained from the third party server . The data store may perform a data lookup to correlate the identity of the mobile device with the TZAC address of the trusted security zone . The data store may then return a response comprising the TZAC address . In some embodiments the network service provider may want to send a message to the trusted security zone without receiving a request from a third party server . In such an embodiment the communication routing may begin with the trusted service manager server and may not involve a third party server .

The trusted service manager server may then compose a message comprising the new application encapsulated with the identity of the mobile device and the TZAC address . For example the identity of the mobile device or other routing information may be placed in a header of the message along with the TZAC address . In order to further protect the information in the message and the TZAC address the message may be encapsulated using one or more tokens or encryption keys useful for communicating the message through a chain of trusted security zone applications.

The trusted service manager server may then send the message to the mobile device to provision the new application into the first trusted security zone via the network via the base transceiver station and via the radio transceiver . Said in other words the first trusted service manager server may send the request via a radio communication link and the mobile device may receive the request via a radio communication link. The trusted service manager server may transmit the request over a trusted end to end communication link from the trusted service manager server to the mobile device . For further details about establishing trusted end to end communication links see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which was incorporated by reference in its entirety above. Upon receiving the message at the radio transceiver the modem may be configured to recognize the TZAC address . A forwarding mechanism within the modem may be used to accept the message and redirect it as message to the trusted security zone . The forwarding mechanism may involve extracting the TZAC address from the message and routing the message over the appropriate physical components of the mobile device to direct the message to the physical component associated with the TZAC address . For example the forwarding mechanism may involve extracting the TZAC address for a processor operating the trusted security zone and transmitting the message internally to the processor. The trusted security zone and or a trusted application executing within the trusted security zone may receive the message and perform one or more actions based on the message such as provisioning the new application changing a setting storing information and or restoring replacing or removing one or more components from the trusted security zone . While shown as single messages and each message may comprise one or more messages and or one or more portions of a single message.

The communication between the trusted service manager server and the trusted security zones may be established in a number of ways. In an embodiment the TZAC address may be mapped to a public reference to the mobile device . The public address may be any indicia used to locate the mobile device and send a communication to the mobile device over a public communication network. For example the TZAC address may be mapped to a mobile station identifier MSID . When a message is to be sent to the trusted security zone the mobile station identifier may be used to locate the mobile device on the public network and establish the appropriate routing protocols to send the message to the mobile device . For example the message may be routed through the network to the appropriate base station in the cell in which the mobile device is located. The message may comprise the TZAC address and when received by the modem the modem may pass the message to the trusted security zone based on the TZAC address . Any other indicia of the mobile device may similarly be used to locate and route the message to the mobile device and subsequently route the message to the trusted security zone .

In an embodiment the TZAC address may be mapped to indicia on a private network. For example the TZAC address may be mapped to a private IP address associated with the modem and or radio transceiver of the mobile device . The message may be composed by the trusted service manager server and comprise both the private IP address and the TZAC address . The private IP address may allow the message to be routed over the network and be directed to the mobile device . Upon being received by the mobile device for example by the modem in the mobile device the TZAC address may be used to internally route the message to the trusted security zone . In an embodiment the TZAC address may be mapped to the MAC address of the modem . The MAC address may be sufficient on a private network to route the message to the mobile device . The TZAC address may form a separate hardware identifier or a sub address of the modem MAC address thereby enabling the mobile device to route the message to the trusted security zone . Various other private network indicia may be used to route the message to the trusted security zone over a private network.

Still further the TZAC address may be mapped to indicia of a local area network. For example the TZAC address may form a portion of a link layer address or be mapped to a link layer address associated with the computer coupled to the local area network. In this embodiment the message may be routed to the computer for example the modem of the computer based on the link layer address mapped to the TZAC address. Upon being routed to the computer the TZAC address may be used to internally route the message to the trusted security zone .

In an embodiment the provisioning of the trusted security zone as described above may optionally be conducted in multiple communications between the trusted service manager server and the trusted security zone . In a first step the trusted service manager server may provide the message to the trusted security zone using the TZAC address as described above with respect to requests and responses through . Rather than provide the full information for provisioning the trusted security zone the message may provide a key to the trusted security zone and or a trusted application executing in a trusted execution environment within the trusted security zone . The key may provide access to the trusted security zone . For example the key may trigger the mobile device to execute in the trusted security zone where applications that are configured to execute in the normal security zone are prevented from executing. When the trusted service manager server has gained access to the trusted security zone the trusted security zone may optionally reply in a message passing to the modem and then in a message to the trusted service manager server indicating that access to the trusted security zone has been granted. The optional reply message may be useful to indicate the availability of the trusted security zone on the mobile device and or the mode of operation of the mobile device e.g. operating in the trusted security zone . Alternatively the trusted security zone may await a further communication from the trusted service manager server . One or more of the messages may be transmitted over a trusted end to end communication link.

In a second step of provisioning the trusted service manager server may send a request comprising the TZAC address to the trusted security zone including the trusted application and possibly additional data or information for installation in the trusted security zone and or in a portion of memory allocated to the trusted security zone . One or more functions that are part of a base layer of trusted security functionality that may have been installed during original manufacturing of the processor may perform this request. Alternatively the base layer of trusted security functionality may be provisioned using an application contained in the message during the first step of provisioning above. In this way a trusted security zone may be remotely provisioned after manufacturing.

The trusted security zones may be used to support a variety of trusted applications and or storage of confidential information. The trusted security zones may be provisioned using the TZAC addresses respectively to support various trusted applications and or confidential information in the trusted security zones and or in a portion of memory dedicated to the trusted security zones . For example the trusted security zones may be provisioned to support credit card transactions by installing one or more trusted application associated with the credit card and confidential information such as credit card account numbers and or credit card authentication numbers in the trusted security zones and or in a portion of memory dedicated to the trusted security zones . The trusted security zones may be provisioned to support debit card transactions by installing a trusted application associated with the debit card and confidential information such as debit card account numbers and or debit card personal identification number PIN and initializing an account funds balance in the trusted security zones and or in a portion of memory dedicated to the trusted security zones . A trusted security zone may be provisioned to support presenting and or storing medical records. A trusted security zone may be provisioned to present and or to store a medical treatment regime. Various other trusted applications settings and or information may be provisioned removed replaced or restored using a communication based on the TZAC addresses to establish a communication link between a network and a trusted security zone .

The system may comprise other computers or servers e.g. third party server coupled to the network that may be associated with one or more of the trusted security zones and or the trusted applications for example a server associated with one or more interface and applications pack a server associated with an enterprise persona a server associated with a private persona a server associated with a medical record repository or source a server associated with a medical treatment monitoring system or other servers. These other computers or servers may be involved in provisioning and monitoring the trusted application of the trusted security zone that they are responsible for analogously to the trusted service manager server .

Turning now to and with reference to a method is described. At block an identifier for a computing device is mapped to a TZAC address . The computing device may have a normal security zone and a trusted security zone which is separate from the normal security zone . The identifier may be any public or private identifier for the computing device that allows the computing device to be located and messages transmitted to the computing device on a public or private network. In an embodiment the TZAC address may identify one of many trusted security zones on the computing device. In an embodiment the identifier may be provided in a request from an outside server. In order to map the identifier with the TZAC address the identifier may be sent to a data store having a lookup or mapping table the identifier may be correlated with the TZAC address in the lookup or mapping table and the TZAC address may be received from the data store .

At block a message comprising the TZAC address may be composed. The message may also comprise the identifier which may be used to route the message to the computing device. In some embodiments the identifier may be further mapped to another routing reference to allow the message to be sent to the computing device. For example the identifier may be mapped to a public reference a private IP address a MAC address of the modem in the computing device and or a link layer address for a computing device coupled to a local area network. In some embodiments the message may be encrypted or encapsulated with a token or encryption key.

At block the message may be routed to the computing device based on the identifier. The message may then be internally routed to the trusted security zone within the computing device using the TZAC address in the message. In an embodiment the identifier may be mapped to a separate routing reference. In this case the message can be routed to the computing device using one or more portions of the routing reference which is originally based on the mapping with the identifier. The message may be used to perform one or more actions within the trusted security zone . In some embodiments the message may comprise a key that is used to gain access to the trusted security zone for example to trigger the execution of the trusted security zone . An optional response may be generated by the trusted security zone for example to verify the availability of the trusted security zone . A second message comprising data may then be composed. The second message may then be routed to the trusted security zone based on the access and the data may be used in any suitable manner by the trusted security zone .

Turning now to a method is described. At block a message is received at a computing device. The message comprises a routing address for the computing device and a TZAC address . The routing address may form the basis for routing the message to the computing device and the TZAC address may form the basis for internally routing the message within the computing device. Since the TZAC address can be a unique identifier associated with a hardware component of a trusted security zone within the computing device the TZAC address may be used to route the message to the hardware component associated with the trusted security zone . In an embodiment the TZAC address may not be discoverable. The message received at the computing device may be encrypted and or encapsulated using one more tokens or encryption keys. In some embodiments the computing device comprises a modem and the message may be received at the modem.

At block the message is internally provided to the trusted security zone based on the TZAC address . In an embodiment the TZAC address may not be discoverable for example the TZAC address may not be broadcast on the network or send any response to a message sent to the trusted security zone using the TZAC address . In this embodiment the non discoverable nature of the TZAC address may form a layer of security by requiring that the message be addressed to the proper computing device and have the proper TZAC address in order for the message to be internally provided to the trusted security zone . In an embodiment the modem may serve to route the message to the trusted security zone using the TZAC address . For example the modem may extract the TZAC address from the message and use the extracted TZAC address to internally route the message to the trusted security zone .

At block the message may be processed within the trusted security zone which may be operating in trusted execution environment. In an embodiment processing the message can include but is not limited to provisioning a new application in the trusted security zone changing a setting in the trusted security zone storing information in the trusted security zone restoring information in the trusted security zone replacing information in the trusted security zone removing information from the trusted security zone or any combination thereof.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

