---

title: Methods and apparatus for providing realistic medical training
abstract: Method and apparatus to provide simulation of a human casualty. In one embodiment an autonomous casualty simulator includes a processing module having a scenario progression controller and a physiological modeling system to receive sensor input and to control effectors. The autonomous casualty simulator can be contained in a nominal human mannequin form.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08647124&OS=08647124&RS=08647124
owner: The General Hospital Corporation
number: 08647124
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130102
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 067 260 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING REALISTIC MEDICAL TRAINING filed on Mar. 18 2008 which is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US06 37663 filed Sep. 28 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 721 848 filed on Sep. 29 2005 which are each incorporated herein by reference.

The Government may have certain rights in the invention pursuant to Department of Defense grant DAMD 17 02 2 0006 as amended with funds from Research Area Directorate II Combat Casualty Care.

There a number of known medical simulation systems that are directed to particular training aspects. One such system is provided by Medical Education Technologies Inc. s METI Sarasota. Fla. known as HPS directed to high level anesthesia and critical care training system. However this system lacks portability and stand alone capabilities. In addition the HPS system does not realistically model trauma except as cardio pulmonary sequelae of hypovolemic states. The METI ECS is semi portable and the SAPS is a portable instructor initiated model driven control environment that can be programmed to respond according to pre programmed algorithms or can be manually overridden.

Also known in the art is a system provided by Laerdal Medical AS Stavanger Norway including mannequin systems for first responder basic first aid resuscitation and Advanced Cardiac Life Support training. These systems lack accurate realism and require line of sight and an instructor to operate them. Laerdal also offers a base model Tuff Terry consisting of a rigid plastic human form that has no treatment responses to be used for modeling patient transport and extraction. Gaumard Scientific Company Inc. Miami Fla. produces HAL S3000 a mobile instructor driven model based system that can be used for anesthesia and life support training in first responder and in hospital training however it also requires line of site instructor operation and is not capable of use in harsh environmental conditions.

In the civilian world many technical and medical specialties care for trauma victims including Emergency Medical Teclmicians EMTs paramedics police officers fire and rescue teams. HAZMAT teams nurses surgeons and emergency physicians. Homeland Security personnel including those involved with mass casualty training. CBRNE event scenarios community disaster teams and other emergency first responders must also be trained in emergency management and mass casualty skills. Training these specialists typically involves some interaction with a simulator. The civilian sector relies on training that includes a combination of simulated patients and real cases to provide the breadth of experience needed to be competent in providing medical care.

Medical simulation systems can be found in situations ranging from total team training to individual procedure simulators to basic skills development simulators. A system which encourages medic responsibility and allows for transfer of care enables a higher level of total team training. Recertification and reevaluation occur throughout the practitioner s career at regular intervals to ensure the care provided is based on up to date standards and oftentimes to refresh skills.

It is believed that the three leading causes of preventable battlefield death are extremity hemorrhage tension pneumothorax and airway complications. The leading causes of death because of combat wounds are 

Improvements in the training of the soldier medic could improve the killed in action KIA rates by 15 20 . Suggested critical tasks for medics to learn to higher proficiency include 

Another recent development within the Army is the advent of the CLS Combat Life Saver program. The CLS course was established to provide for immediate far forward medical care on a widely dispersed battlefield while awaiting further medical treatment and evacuation. The proponent for the CLS course the US Army Medical Department Center and School AMEDDC S recently updated the CLS course to include skills that were recommended from lessons learned in Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom. These revisions include instruction in 

The present invention provides methods and apparatus for simulating a human casualty where mechanisms power sources and process controls are self contained within the shape and volume of a nominally sized human form allowing a person to locate diagnose treat observe a change in condition of and transport the simulated casualty outside of the line of sight of an instructor and without the necessity of someone operating the simulator. This autonomous systems design places the medic at the center of a sensor processor effector loop.

In general sensors detect and measure the medic s diagnostic and treatment procedures the controller computes physiological responses based on pre progrmmned physiological models and effectors display clinical signs mid responses back to the medic. The medic closes the loop medic decisions and actions directly determine the fate of the simulated casualty. To achieve this high level of self contained patient simulation an embedded real time central computer processor autonomously controls the system.

In an exemplary embodiment the system is self contained. As used herein self contained means that the elements needed to effect physiological simulation during use are contained within the mannequin. The term self contained does not preclude communication such as wireless communication control with the system such as by an instructor.

Before describing the invention in detail some general information on the invention system is provided. Invention embodiments are referred to as an Autonomous Casualty Simulator ACS . This is not intended to be limiting but rather to convey a general concept for the illustrative embodiments contained herein. In one embodiment the Autonomous Casualty Simulator ACS is the height and weight of a nominal adult male approximately 72 tall and 190 lbs . In one embodiment the structural system is an articulated skeletal chassis which is accurately jointed to enable mobility and range of motion similar to a real human skeleton. Covering the skeleton and the internal mechanical and computational components of the ACS is a modeled representation of the relevant muscles and skin covering needed to accurately depict the outer structure of an adult male. The user preconfigures the system for operation by setting controls on the ACS Control Panel located on the lower back of the chassis. The scenario progression controller generates a sequence of trauma events hemorrhage airway constriction hemothorax etc. resulting in the high fidelity simulation of a particular trauma case. The central processor logs and timestamps data including vital signs medic radio frequency identification RFID and global positioning system GPS coordinates. The ACS unit also can communicate with an instructor remote monitor via a wireless radio frequency RF link .

One characteristic of the ACS system is responsiveness. The ACS can provide an interactive experience to the medical trainee by actively sensing 1 applied interventions and 2 its own internal physiological state. This is achieved by incorporating a set of sensors that communicate with the central programmable controller. Sensors are included to monitor medic actions and interventions including but not limited to identifying the trainee via RFID tags measuring intravenous IV fluid input tourniquet pressure location of needle insertion and depth of insertion during needle thoracotomy to relieve tension pneumothorax sternal displacement during administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation CPR head acceleration and cervical spine angle. Additionally sensors can be included to measure physiological variables including but not limited to blood volume hemodilution and bronchial air flow. Additional sensors provide data on system parameters such as battery charge level and internal temperature. This list of sensors and variables sensed is representative but is not necessarily exclusive of other sensors and variables.

A range of effectors generates both general clinical signs and specific trauma clinical signs as well as other responsive behaviors. Physiologic signs are produced by effectors such as electromechanical actuators to generate palpable peripheral pulses and drivers for lung expansion and contraction. Specific trauma states are produced by effectors such as valves to admit blood or air into the pleural space and peripheral blood flow controllers to produce pulsatile flow of blood out of a lacerated artery. Additional responsive behaviors are produced by effectors such as motors to turn the head in the direction of a voice and an amplified speaker to produce voice vocalizations of pain and sounds of labored breathing.

In one aspect of the invention ACS functionality including its mechanisms sensors actuators power sources and automatic control systems so as to fit within the size and shape constraints of a realistic nominal human form.

It is understood that the term nominal refers to a range within plus or minus two standard deviations of the average height weight and volume of the age and gender matched human that the ACS is designed to simulate. This is equivalent to approximately the central 95 of the distribution for height weight and volume.

In one embodiment for the ACS the target human is an adult male with height 72 1 0.83 mm and weight 190 lbs. 86.4 kg . The volume of a male human with this size and weight is approximately 2.8 cubic feet 0.079 m. In one embodiment the entirety of the structural computing sensing actuating fluidics power and communications elements have been designed to fit within this very limited volume. Furthemlore all apparatus must meet the even more restrictive constraint of fitting within this volume as embodied in the morphology of a human body with correct external anatomic form and proportions of the head neck torso and limbs.

As described above in in an exemplary embodiment the ACS is controlled by an onboard computer system that is based on a two part architecture a real time central processor and a field programmable gate array FPGA . This combination allows a lower speed and therefore lower power and lower heat Pentium II class processor to handle overall control communications and data logging while the FPGA interfaces directly to the sensors and effectors offloading low level data acquisition and processing tasks from the central processor and providing the advantage of the high speed parallel processing power afforded by FPGA technology. In an exemplary embodiment the algorithms and models of physiology are implemented across both the real time processor for more mathematically complex functions and the FPGA for simpler faster more reflexive responses. This partitioning of function may be regarded as analogous to that found in the human central nervous system with the central processor providing the higher level computation and communication abilities of the brain and the FPGA providing the fast reflexive responses and peripheral sensory effector integration of the spinal cord.

Computational Architecture Real Time Processor Real Time Operating System and Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA 

In an exemplary embodiment the central programmable processor computer controller is specified to be rugged compact shock and temperature tolerant have a real time clock for data logging and use flash memory rather than a hard drive to eliminate fragile moving parts susceptible to drop and impact shock. One embodiment employs the use of a real time operating system RTOS on the central processor because of the greater reliability and immunity to crashing afforded by an RTOS that is designed specifically for embedded unattended control applications often in mission critical environments such as the central control computer of an automobile or avionics system.

One embodiment incorporates a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA to implement physiology sensor and actuator processing algorithms directly in silicon. An alternative embodiment could implement these algorithms in a custom built Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . This provides extremely fast processing and very high resistance to software crashes since algorithms executing on an FPGA are effectively hard wired circuits that function independently of and in parallel with each other and with any external operating system. These algorithms are thus immune to conventional system crashes and interruptions.

An RTOS is typically much more compact than a standard operating system such as Microsoft s Windows XP and therefore also offers the advantage of fast booting typically on the order of one second . This ensures that the system is ready for use soon after it is turned on and maximizes the productive use of instructors and trainees time. Both the RTOS and the FPGA also offer tight control of input output timing a critical requirement for a system such as ACS with a large number of sensors and actuators. An RTOS by definition provides real time deterministic control with guaranteed bounds on response latency. This is distinctly different than a conventional operating system where many actions such as disk reads or network activity can interrupt I O processing causing unexpected and random delays. For example tight control of timing signals to a pulse actuator ensures that a prescribed steady pulse is actually actuated at a constant rate and is perceived by the trainee as a regular rhythm. Unbounded interrupts generated in a central processor with a conventional operating system architecture could produce a pause or irregularity in the pulse actuator s action and this could be falsely interpreted by the trainee as having clinical significance.

Another embodiment uses a state space model to represent the sequence of events specified by the configuration of the controls on the ACS Control Panel. State space models are used as the framework for building robust maintainable applications since they can represent complex interdependent systems in simple graphical terms. Lower level processing of sensor inputs and effector outputs including reflexive responses such as pupil response to light are executed directly on the FPGA. Overall system control timing communications and data logging functions are programmed to run on the real time central processor executing under the RTOS.

Another embodiment employs an algorithmic architecture termed the state space multidimensional lookup table methodology to provide a means of generating complex physiological responses that is both flexible and robust. This will be described in detail below.

One embodiment uses an onboard flash drive to provide non volatile data storage in a rugged shockproof medium. Assuming a maximum data logging rate of 1 Hz approximately 1 MB of storage is required per hour of data logged. Approximately 300 bytes of storage will be required to hold logged variables for each time point including but not limited to 

One aspect of the ACS invention provides continuous physiology in one embodiment ACS is built around trauma relevant physiological systems and responses and these systems respond continuously and realistically throughout a training scenario e.g. ACS will die spontaneously and without instructor input if effective care is not given to it. This approach ensures that trainees learn that ongoing assessment and treatment is crucial to patient survivability continuous physiology will require ongoing assessment and continuous responsibility.

In one embodiment the models used are based on empirically observed and measured human physiological responses to various physiological challenges such as hemorrhage or airway occlusion. These empirical data may be derived from a plurality of sources including clinically observed data used as the basis for accepted standards of trauma physiology and care such as the gold standards as codified in the Advanced Trauma Life Support Program Manual American College of Surgeons 6th ed. 1997 and the Special Operations Forces Medical Handbook Yevich Whitlock Broadhurst et al. 2001 . The empirical data may also be derived from experimental science such as the lower body negative pressure LBNP model of human physiological responses to blood loss. The empirical data may also be derived from quantitative data records obtained from trauma patients for example while they are attended by medical personnel and connected to physiological monitoring instrumentation during treatment and transport.

In another embodiment the physiological models used may additionally incorporate validated data generated by quantitative and computational models of cardiovascular physiology in particular one embodiment utilized the physiological models developed Heldt 2004 and Heldt Chang. Verghese and Mark 2003. In one embodiment as needed based physiological responses on the Guyton model of fluid and circulatory regulation Guyton Coleman and Granger 1972 Guyton Coleman Cowley et. al 1972 and models specifically developed to run in real time for teaching cardiovascular physiology Davis 1991 Davis and Mark 1990 Campbell Zeglen Kagehiro and Rigas 1982 Sah and Moody 1985 .

It is understood that any of these embodiments may additionally incorporate practical advice from emergency medicine physicians trauma specialists and military physicians and medics. By tuning the models with heuristics derived from the experience of these trauma experts we created a system that does not merely respond by the book but to every extent that is practicable matches the responses seen in real life in the field.

The models of Heldt et al. provide an understanding of cardiovascular responses to orthostatic stressors. The Heldt model is a very large over 100 parameters computationally intensive model that offers exquisite detail in modeling the cardiovascular system and its response to external stressors but is not suitable for execution in real time. One aspect of the current invention is a process for leveraging this work to develop simplified and computationally efficient models of cardiovascular dynamics that despite their simplicity capture the dynamics of trauma relevant physiological responses and can be executed in real time and with high reliability on the ACS central computer. This enables the ability for example to provide real time responses in ACS to changing variables such as blood volume during the simulation of exsanguinating hemorrhage.

Another embodiment describes and includes the process to meet the need for autonomous control and accurate physiological modeling in ACS by means of a compact computationally efficient implementation of algorithms that can run in real time on the embedded real time processor and FPGA.

In one embodiment the real time physiological models and control algorithms running on the central processor architecture are implemented by a combination of state space and multidimensional lookup table techniques supplemented where needed by solvers for low order primarily 1st and 2nd order differential equations. State space methodology is employed to simulate principal physiological and clinical states and to incorporate time dependent and behavior in the models. In an exemplary embodiment the physiological state at any given time is a function of five parameters 

An example lookup table is shown in Table 1. This lookup table relates the independent variable of Total Blood Volume to the output variables Heart Rate Systolic Blood Pressure Diastolic Blood Pressure Pulse Pressure. Respiratory Rate Urine Output and Mental Status. Note that the data provided in this table are representative data.

The lookup table functions within the system as follows. During a hemorrhage simulation the blood fluid flow sensor measures the rate of flow of blood simulant. The central programmable processor totals the flow measurements to generate a measure of total blood lost. We define the following variables 

We further define that time t 0 is the instructor defined start time of a particular instance of a particular simulation training scenario.

The central programmable processor then executes the following computation to determine the total blood volume percentage at time t 

The output variables at time t may then be employed in computations of additional physiological parameters. The output variables or functions of them may also be employed as control signals after appropriate conversion to analog or digital electronic signals for actuators such as for example pulse effectors respiratory motion actuators or audio generators of heart sounds.

In the above example a one dimensional lookup table is employed to relate one input variable to one output variable. The relationship between physiological variables in ACS will typically be more complex with an output variable being a function of two or more input variables and the lookup table technique can be extended to embody relationships between variables in which the value of an output variable depends on two or more input variables. In the general n dimensional case an output variable is a function of n input variables. This relationship can be programmatically represented by an n dimensional lookup table typically implemented as an n dimensional array of data points in the memory of the central processor.

For example level of consciousness LOC is a function of systolic arterial pressure SAP and blood oxygenation Sp0 a well as the current neurological state. Blood AVoxygenation is in turn a function of hematocrit HCT and total bronchial airflow rate. Thus LOC can be expressed LOC SAP HCT Agrave over V fand fare each implemented as two dimensional lookup tables each of which can be viewed mathematically as a surface above a two dimensional domain. Changes in input values move the output values to new locations on this surface. The technique extrapolates to higher dimensions where n dimensional lookup tables implement hypersurfaces above n dimensional ranges.

The use of multidimensional lookup tables to embody the relationships between key physiological variables is a key enabling methodology. Replacing complex high order differential equation DEQ models with lookup tables enables real time performance and increases stability and reliability particularly for a system subject to nondeterministic human inputs i.e. the medical trainee s interventions since DEQ solvers have the potential to diverge i.e. crash for extreme or unanticipated out of bounds values or combinations of values of input variables and parameters.

The combination of state space methodology and multidimensional lookup tables provides a means of generating complex physiological responses that is both flexible and robust. In cases where an output variable depends not just on the current value of one or more input variables but also on the past history of those variables a series of states can be employed to approximate this history dependent behavior. The history of one or more input variables determines which of a plurality of possible states is the current state and each state has associated with it a particular lookup table relating input and output variables for that state. Thus the relationship of the output variables to the input variables can vary depending on the time history of the input variables.

For example in the hemorrhage example above if the total blood volume percentage reached a value of 40 or less brain and heart tissues would be significantly hypoperfused and experience severe hypoxia. Within approximately 5 minutes there would be irreversible loss of brain and heart function. At this point administration of IV fluid or other resuscitative measures would be ineffective they would not produce the same input output variable behavior as they would have if administered earlier in the time course of the scenario. This time dependent behavior can be implemented using the state space and lookup table methodology described herein.

For an example referring to . At the start of the scenario State is entered. State has associated with it Lookup Table 1 which is used to relate input and output variables. Lookup Table 1 could for example be based on the input output variable relationships presented above in Table 1. At a regularly recurring interval the total blood volume percentage variable is tested to see if it has fallen below 40 . If yes a timer variable T whose value is the elapsed time that the total blood volume percentage is under 40 is tested at a regularly recurring interval to determine if it exceeds 5 minutes. If yes a new physiological state State is entered. State now has associated with it Lookup Table 2 which encodes a different set of input output variable relationships than Lookup Table 1. For example Lookup Table 2 could specify that all output variables have the constant value 0 representing the irrecoverable cessation of vital signs death .

This is a simplified example to illustrate some features of the state space multidimensional lookup table methodology. In practice the tests for state transitions may be quite complex involving multiple ranges of the test variables or test variables that are functions of input variables output variables and time.

The use of state space methodology combined with lookup tables to relate input and output variables enables the incorporation of real world human physiological response data from sources such as described above directly into a simulated trauma scenario. If for example a patient who was attached to vital signs monitoring instrumentation developed a tension pneumothorax in the field and was treated the data record from this event obtained subject to pertinent guidelines regarding consent and confidentiality could be incorporated into a set of lookup tables in the ACS that would generate in the simulation exactly the same responses as occurred during the evolution of the actual clinical case.

In cases where empirical data on the human physiological responses to specific courses of trauma and its treatment is sparse or unavailable the data informing the state space structure and lookup tables can be derived from quantitative computational models of human physiology. The essence of this process is to run the quantitative physiological model which may be complex and computationally intensive off line that is on a higher powered computer external to the ACS system for a range of independent variables and parameters in order to obtain data that captures the relationship between the variables of interest. This modeling is physiologically realistic but time consuming for example it may require on the order of several minutes per model run each time a set of input parameters is changed. These generated data are then employed to create multidimensional lookup tables that can be implemented in the FPGA. Changes in sensor inputs to ACS blood volume bronchial air flow are interpreted by the lookup tables and cause corresponding changes in the vital signs and output effector responses. The physiology is effectively encoded in the lookup tables which unlike the original model are compact and fast.

The state space multidimensional lookup table methodology may be used to represent highly nonlinear physiological system behavior. Representation to within desired bounds on accuracy over a wide range of system behavior may be obtained by creating a sufficient number of states such that system behavior within each state is adequately approximated by the associated lookup table. Each state is defined so as to encompass a limited regime of system behavior and when system variables reach the limits of a regime a transition to a new state occurs. This process is somewhat analogous to the piecewise linearization of a nonlinear function for local analysis where a local approximation is used to permit analysis that otherwise would be intractable. The approach also is analogous to the technique of gain scheduling in control systems wherein different control functions are defined for different ranges of the system variables.

As a specific example of translating the physiological behavior of a computational model to a lookup table that relates input variables to output variables we illustrate a process in for one component of physiological repertoire the response of heart rate and blood pressure to hemorrhage. Starting at the top of the figure a desired set of independent and dependent physiological variables is chosen for modeling. In this example to determine the responses of heart rate HR and arterial blood pressure BP to hemorrhage the independent variable are specified to be total blood volume TPV and the dependent variables are heart rate HR and systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressure SAP and DAP . A function is specified that decreases blood volume with time and the model is run to determine the output curves for HR SAP and DAP.

There are limits to the accuracy of any computational model and especially with extreme perturbations to physiological variables real physiological responses may not be fully captured and predicted by one model. An example is cardiovascular system behavior as exsanguination proceeds to the point of death where the rise in heart rate will ultimately convert to a precipitous decline. For obvious reasons deliberate experimental validation of a cardiovascular model in humans is not possible for this condition. However quantitative data does exist for other animals and qualitative data exists based on the observations of clinicians treating trauma patients. For example the drop in heart rate with severe exsanguination is due to a mechanism known as the Bezold Jarisch reflex and this has been qualitatively and quantitatively described in published literature such cases we will extend the data curves generated by the Heldt model or other models with additional data from validated sources so the full range of physiological response needed is available. The use of lookup tables facilitates this process since response curves from different models can be spliced together to cover the entire desired range of variation of an independent variable. Specific models can be chosen to cover subranges for which each model is optimally suited. The result is an accurate model of physiological responses that any one model may be incapable of providing.

As the requisite lookup table is coded in the FPGA the ACS system can respond realistically to a simulated hemorrhage scenario. As shown in the bottom left of for example during a hemorrhage scenario an internal sensor measures the hemorrhage flow rate from which the remaining volume in tpe internal blood reservoir can be calculated. This sensor data is read into the FPGA and after numerical integration is mapped to HR and BP via the lookup table. The HR and BP variables are state variables that provide a window into the overall health of the simulated patient as well as provide the appropriate physiologic response. As shown in these variables can be relayed to the instructor remote monitor for real time display and are recorded in the onboard data log with a time stamp.

Further the HR and BP variables are displayed to the trainee through simulated clinical physical signs generated by effectors. For example HR will set the rate of the pulse effectors in the carotid brachial radial and femoral arteries and will likewise set the frequency of pulsatile flow in a bleeding artery by controlling the rate of opening of the arterial fluid flow valve. BP will be used to set the strength of the pulse effectors and will also influence the amplitude of the arterial flow. The relationship of BP to pulse strength is set individually for each pulse site for example peripheral pulses in the rrldial arteries cannot be felt when SAP drops below roughly 80 mm Hg and this same effect will be replicated in ACS by turning off the radial pulse effectors when the computed SAP drops below 80 mm Hg.

In one embodiment the architecture of the physiological modeling system is broadly divided into three main subsystems cardiovascular respiratory and neurological. Functions to be modeled and implemented in each of these subsystems are described below.

In one embodiment the central physiology processor computes cardiac rate and rhythm and systolic and diastolic blood pressures. Total blood volume is sensed and the central physiology processor responds with realistic changes in cardiac rate blood pressure respiratory signs and level of consciousness. Bronchial airflow is sensed and the central physiology processor responds with appropriate changes in cardiac rate and blood pressure. Pulse rate and strength are determined by cardiac rate and systolic blood pressure. If systolic blood pressure drops below a critical threshold peripheral pulses disappear. The rate and volume of hemorrhage is controlled based on cardiac rate and systemic blood pressure. The volume of administered IV fluid is sensed and is a variable that influences the computation of cardiac rate and blood pressure and through the respiratory and neurological systems dependencies on these variables administered fluid also affects respiratory responses and level of consciousness. Hemodilution is computed from sensor measurements of total blood volume and administered fluid volume. Hemodilution is monitored by the central physiology processor which responds with realistic changes in cardiac and respiratory signs and level of consciousness. Cardiac arrest can be programmed to occur at a specified time as well as whether arrest responds to resuscitation and if so the duration of arrest until response assuming effective intervention by the medic . Cardiac arrest may also be generated automatically by the physiological modeling system sufficient if sufficient deterioration occurs in the simulated patient s cardiovascular status.

In one embodiment the torso of the ACS system becomes a platform for a variety of unique trauma modules to connect to. Depending on the specific training goals individual ACS units can be customized by comlecting the arm and leg modules in a configuration to match the training objectives. The connection provides transport and return of but is not limited to blood IV fluid power and data.

In another embodiment the individual trauma module contains a piece of hardware such as a USB key flash drive or other form of non volatile memory which can be preloaded with the control mechanisms necessary to run the mechanics and electronics contained on the attached limb. The hardware would communicate with the central processor via a common Application Programming Interface API for control purposes and enable relevant common ACS data logging. This allows for more advanced modules such as an ultra realistic femur fracture management limb to work with the same ACS torso which accepts a low cost plastic limb without pulses or hemorrhage capability for use in extraction only exercises.

A further embodiment describes a hemorrhage control system with each removable limb module having the following features 

In one embodiment the limb trauma module connection points will be located in the upper half of the humerus and in the upper part of the femur. Another embodiment includes connections just below the elbow and just below the knee for lower extremity trauma modules to be connected. Each c01mection point will include reinforced and rigid mechanical latches to hold the components above and below that point together quick release fluid connectors with integral shut off valves to carry blood simulant to the sites of injury and IV fluid from venous access locations and other fluids as appropriate e.g. fluid to pressurize compartment syndrome thigh elements ruggedized electrical connectors to send control signals to electrically actuated pulsation units and receive data from pressure sensors in each.

Each connection point includes a release mechanism that frees the limb segment upon deliberate manipulation of a push button like element. The push button is offset beneath the surface of the limb segment and protected from inadvertent activation.

One aspect of the trauma training system is the system s capacity to bleed and have its bleeding controlled through proper application of direct pressure tourniquets or other techniques for hemostasis. The ACS contains a replaceable supply of blood simulant a system to pressurize the blood and a series of valves which direct the flow of blood simulant to the sites of bleeding. Further these valves can be controlled such that by their controlled opening and closing pulsatile bleeding e.g. arterial spurting can be generated. In addition pressure sensors can detect application of pressure and the sensor signals can be used by the computer controller to modulate and or arrest bleeding as appropriate through alteration of the pressure applied to the blood simulant reservoirs or through modulation of the commands to the control valves.

In one embodiment blood simulant is created by injecting concentrated liquid colorant and thickener into one liter bags of saline solution e.g. Hospira Inc. p n NDC 0409 7983 09 which are then agitated to thoroughly mix the components. These bags of blood simulant form the disposable yet refillable simulant containers.

Blood simulant will pass through a series of channels embedded in the heat sinking elements of the central control unit and any other components which generate heat so that it will have a temperature above ambient when it is released through injury sites. Pressure applied to a limb or artery must be sensed for several of ACS functions including the ability to stop arterial bleeding by either diffuse direct pressure localized pressure applied to an artery or by application of a tourniquet. Limb pressure sensing is also needed to detect palpation by a medic for triggering pain vocalization for example in the case of palpation of a thigh with presence of a fractured femur.

A common functional requirement in medical simulators is the detection of external pressure applied by hand or mechanical device to the exterior of a limb or other body part for the purpose of constricting a subjacent luminal structure such as an artery or vein. An example is the detection of the pressure applied by a tourniquet to the upper arm to constrict the brachial artery and stop the flow of blood in the case of a severe hemorrhage from an artery distal to the point of pressure application.

We describe an inventive pressure sensing system that allows the measurement of pressure applied at any point along a linear path. The pressure sensing system can be applied to measure the pressure applied to a variety of linear structures including tubular structures and including but not limited to simulated arteries veins and nerves.

The pressure sensing system is durable flexible stable relatively immune to noise and can be calibrated.

One embodximent shown in includes a hollow elastomeric tube representative materials are polyvinyl chloride PVC silicone and neoprene that is located in a mannequin limb in the position that an artery vein or nerve would be found in a human. This tube is termed the sense tube. In the case that the pressure sensing system is employed to measure the pressure applied to a simulated artery the tube is termed the sense artery. This designation distinguishes the tubular sensing element from the flow artery. A separate component of the hemorrhage simulation system through which a regulated amount of blood simulant flows.

The sense tube has a diameter that approximates the diameter of the native target structure artery vein or nerve for which applied pressure is to be sensed. In the case of the brachial artery the main artery providing blood flow to the arm the inner diameter is approximately 3 16 . The tube is closed at the distal end by means of a barbed plug or other durable closure. The tube may be unbranched strictly linear or branched a tube with a plurality of branches can be used to emulate the branching course of a native vessel or nerve.

In an exemplary embodiment the tube is surrounded by a local material envirolm1ent that emulates the local environment of the native target structure. For example the sense tube may be surrounded by a compliant layer of material such as a medium density polyurethane foam that emulates the viscoelastic material properties of the soft tissue surrounding a native artery vein or nerve. Additionally the tube may be positioned in proximity to a simulated bone.

The tube is filled with a moderately viscous incompressible fluid that has low vapor pressure to prevent evaporation representative fluids include glycerine or silicone oil . The open proximal end of the tube is attached to a solid state gage pressure transducer. This transducer can be located in the trunk of the ACS body a location that offers mechanical protection and a more controlled temperature environment than the limb factors promoting signal stability and low drift. The transducer voltage signal output is connected to one of the analog to digital converter inputs in the central computing system.

Alternately the transducer can be mounted within the limb segment so that the sense artery does not require separable fluid connectors between the sensing region and the transducer which could potentially admit air rendering the pressure measurement inaccurate. In this case only electrical connections need to be made between limb segments and the ACS torso.

Pressure applied to the limb via hand or tourniquet is transmitted via the soft tissue in the limb to the flexible fluid filled sense tube increasing the fluid pressure within the tube. The incompressible fluid transmits the pressure to the pressure transducer which converts the pressure signal to an analog electrical signal that is measured by the central computer system.

Described below is the application of the pressure sensing system to measure pressure applied to a simulated artery to stop the flow of blood due to a traumatic injury.

The range of the transducer should be sufficient to enable accurate measurement of the range of pressure needed to stop arterial flow. A nominal maximum systolic arterial pressure is 250 mm Hg 4.83 psi . Allowing for a factor of two overpressure during application of a tourniquet an appropriate range of pressure sensed by the transducer is approximately 0 to 10 psi.

The pressure sensing system has the desirable property of localized measurement in a region approximating the spatial extent of an artery. Thus for example hand pressure applied to the skin directly superjacent to the sensor s tube will elicit a larger signal than if the hand is positioned farther away. The pressure transducer s electrical signal output is digitized and becomes an input variable in the physiology system algorithms that control the effector valves that regulate the flow of blood simulant in the flow artery of the limb. The programming of the central processor compares the transducer output signal after calibration and scaling to the current value of the systolic blood pressure which is taken as a threshold pressure value above which arterial flow is cutoff. If the transducer output signal exceeds the threshold value the central processor sends a signal to close the solenoid valve that regulates the flow of blood simulant in the artery in the limb. In this way hand or tourniquet pressure of sufficient intensity and in the correct placement will result in cessation of bleeding.

Because the pressure sensing system measures pressure along a spatial region conforming to the spatial location of the actual artery pressure applied in the wrong location will be less effective or ineffective at generating a signal of sufficient intensity to trigger cessation of blood flow. This provides valuable hands on experience to a trainee emphasizing the importance of both magnitude and location of pressure application to stop hemorrhage.

In the body the anatomy of both an artery and the local tissue neighborhood around an artery can influence how pressure applied at the skin surface is transmitted to the artery. For example if there is an amputation of the lower leg or foot or severe traumatic laceration to the arteries of the lower leg or foot a tourniquet applied below the knee may be ineffective in stopping hemorrhage a tourniquet properly applied above the knee will result in hemostasis. The reason for the difference is the anatomical position of the arteries above and below the knee relative to the muscles and bones. In the upper leg the femoral artery the main artery of the lower limb is located relatively superficially with only the relatively thin sartorius muscle interposing between the artery and the skin. The femoral artery feeds into the popliteal artery in the region behind the knee the popliteal artery is also relatively easily compressed by application of external pressure. Below the knee there are three main arteries that supply the lower leg the anterior tibial artery the posterior tibial artery and the fibular peroneal artery. For much of its course the anterior tibial artery runs between the tibia and fibula. A tourniquet applied below the knee will transmit pressure to the rigid tibia and fibula but the artery between them will be relatively shielded from receiving this pressure and hence blood flow through it may not be stopped. This is an important learning point for trainees. The pressure sensing system described herein can be implemented to meet this training need. A branched sense artery or multiple independent linear sense arteries can be located so as to emulate the native morphology and course of the femoral popliteal anterior tibial posterior tibial and fibular arteries. This sense artery or arteries can be placed in a similar anatomical relationship to simulated muscles bones and skin as the real arteries are situated to the native muscles bones and skin. A tourniquet that is correctly applied to the simulated leg above the knee will transmit more pressure to the sense artery than a tourniquet applied below the knee where the simulated bones tibia and fibula shield the sense artery from external pressure just as in the real case. The central programmable processor will measure the pressure and respond differently in the two cases actuating appropriate hemostasis in the lower leg flow artery only when the tourniquet has been correctly applied. In the case that separate sense arteries are employed for the upper and the lower leg the application of a tourniquet incorrectly to the lower leg can be specifically detected and this error can be recorded for later review and remediation. In this way a common error of training can be detected trainee performance can be assessed and appropriate feedback can be given to improve future performance.

Additionally the pressure sensor system can be quantitatively calibrated by application of the following procedure 

Additionally this pressure sensing system incorporates a means to automatically calibrate the zero pressure point of the system. Changes in temperature or long term evaporation of the fluid in the sense tube can potentially change the baseline zero pressure in the fluid. The system therefore incorporates in the programming of the software that executes on the central processor a routine to automatically rezero the pressure sensor at the start of each scenario. The routine executes as follows at the start of a training scenario a startup routine reads the current value of the pressure transducer output signal for a time period of nominally several seconds averages the value over this time period and sets the baseline or zero reference pressure value to be equal to this initial averaged value. All subsequent pressure measurements made during the run of the scenario are adjusted by first subtracting the baseline value. In this way the system auto adjusts for changes in system parameters that could otherwise create short term or long term drift of the measured pressure.

In one embodiment palpable pulses are generated in carotid brachial radial femoral popliteal and pedal arteries. One embodiment of the pulsation system describes a combination of an electromechanical and hydraulic system. At the location of the pulse point an elastomeric balloon filled with water or alternatively the same fluid as used in the pressure sensing system will lie underneath the surface of the soft tissue skin. This balloon will be continuous with a tube that mates with a miniature syringe or similar piston device. The piston device is actuated using either a radio control style servo a solenoid a voice coil or other similar electromechanical device. The pulsation units are self contained and activated electrically. Control signals for pulses in the extremities are carried through the ruggedized electrical connectors described in the Skeleton Section.

The R C servos or voice coil or similar devices will be sufficiently strong to drive water into the balloons to generate the pulses but not so strong that if the trainee collapses the balloon by exerting too much pressure that they will feel the pulse continue.

In one embodiment a novel implementation of a simulated venous system replicates many of the features of the human venous system with respect to the specific procedure of intravenous IV fluid administration. Intravenous fluid saline Hextend or other crystalloid whole blood simulant can be administered via I.V. catheter under gravity or pressure feed into most of the common anatomical sites including but not limited to the forearm jugular veins antecubital fossa dorsum of the hand and the sternum. The amount of fluid administered is sensed by a liquid flow sensor that communicates with the central processor. The physiological modeling program executing on the central processor alters relevant vital signs physiological states and other variables in response to the administered fluid.

In one embodiment the physiologic response to a specific type of IV fluid can be preconfigured by the instructor on the control panel. This allows fluid specific response without the necessity of line of site operation of the simulator. Oftentimes a medic will carry only one type of IV fluid and this feature allows the physiologic system to respond appropriately to the subtle differences in fluid type without necessitating complex and expensive fluid detection systems onboard.

The simulated venous system includes simulated veins. Veins are implemented using clastomeric tubes that approximate the diameter of native veins. The tubing material must be flexible durable self sealing to puncture and with a durometer and other mechanical properties that respond with realistic resistance and pop to venipuncture. Pop is a term used in clinical parlance to describe the feeling of give or reduced resistance to pressure experienced at the hand of a practitioner as a needle penetrates the wall of the vein and enters the interior. Candidate materials for the tubing include latex neoprene and silicones.

In one embodiment of the system the simulated antecubital veins commonly used for IV access in the anterior region of the elbow are soft silicone tubing blue in color outer diameter 1 16 wall thickness. In another embodiment of the system the simulated antecubital veins are latex tubing natural tan color W outer diameter and 3 32 wall thickness.

The simulated veins must be initially charged with blood simulant. The initial charge of blood must be maintained under sufficient pressure to provide flash back when a needle is inserted into the vein. This refers to the visible flow of blood into an IV needle or cannula when the needle is successfully inserted into the lumen of the vein.

The venous system must be able to accept administered IV fluid and store such fluid until the end of the training scenario in a collection chamber entirely contained within the ACS. The amount of IV fluid administered must be sensed and monitored by the central computer processor.

External fluid should flow into the venous system only when the external fluid head i.e. the signed height of the external fluid relative to the height of the venous entry point is greater than zero.

Fluid should flow back out of a vein if the external fluid head drops below zero i.e. if the bag of IV fluid drops below the level of the body this is an error on the part of a practitioner .

An exemplary implementation is illustrated in . The system includes a central blood reservoir shared with ACS hemorrhage control system a solenoid valve an elastomeric bladder one or more synthetic veins replaceable and connected to the system via fluid connectors and fittings two low pressure check valves connected in parallel and with opposite flow orientations a fluid flow sensor and a collecting bag or chamber. In the illustrated embodiment with the exception of the parallel check valves all components are connected in series and connections are made with appropriately sized polymer tubing and fluid connectors and fittings.

In one embodiment the operation of the system is as follows During the initialization start up procedure for the ACS system a signal from the central computer opens the solenoid actuated valve to allow blood simulant to flow sequentially from the blood reservoir which is maintained at a relatively high arterial pressure into the elastomeric bladder synthetic vein through the upper check valve through the flow sensor and into the IV fluid collection bag chamber. This charges the venous system with blood simulant. Detection of fluid flow by the flow sensor indicates that the system is filled with blood simulant and the central processor then closes the electric pinch valve to prevent further flow.

In another embodiment the elastomer bladder is a small expandable balloon of approximately 1 Occ volume. It fills with blood simulant and maintains a low pressure on this volume via elastic recoil of the bladder walls . This provides a small low pressure reservoir of blood simulant that is adequate to provide flash back into a cannula needle or saline lock when the vein is successfully penetrated. The upper of the two check valves shown in has its open flow orientation directed away from the vein this valve provides a small amount of back pressure in the vein and maintains the distension of the clastomeric bladder.

Once IV access has been achieved external fluid flows into the synthetic vein through the upper check valve through the flow sensor and into the IV fluid collection chamber. The quantity of fluid administered can be measured by integrating the flow sensor signal to obtain the net volume of fluid passing through the sensor.

In another embodiment the lower check valve is oriented with the direction of open flow toward the vein. This allows fluid from the collection chamber to flow back into the vein and out into the catheter and externally apparatus should the external bag be dropped below the height of the body.

In another embodiment the cracking pressure of the check valves is specified to be 0.25 psi. This was selected so that an IV bag placed on the chest of the mannequin at a height of approximately 20 cm above the insertion point for an antecubital IV would have just sufficient fluid head to allow forward flow into the system. The pressure head for water is 1.4 psi m yielding a pressure drop of 0.2 m 1.4 psi m 0.28 psi for the bag placement described. This pressure is just sufficient to open a 0.25 psi check valve. In practice this accurately represents the minimum height of IV bag placement where forward fluid flow would be expected to occur in a real patient.

In another embodiment the flow sensor is specified to have a flow measurement range of approximately 10 to 100 cc min. This was chosen to match the anticipated flow rate of wide open IV administration of approximately 50 cc per minute. An example fluid flow sensor that meets these specifications is the McMillan model G104 03 with a measurement range of 13 to 100 cc min at 0.5 accuracy. Accuracy and minimum flow resolution are important parameters contributing to the accuracy of the volume measurement derived from integrating or summating the flow rate with respect to time.

In another embodiment the collection chamber will consist of a rigid chamber enclosing a flexible bag which holds the IV fluid collected. The bag will have openings at the entrance to receive the fluid and be attached to a drain valve that passes through the chamber wall. A normally open valve is attached to tubing that passes through the chamber wall and enables equalization of air pressure between the atmosphere and the interior of the chamber. Another valve normally closed connects the chamber to the air pressure source that drives the blood simulant reservoirs.

To empty the collection bag the equalization valve closes the pressurized air valve opens and the drain valve opens. The compressed air collapses the bag containing the IV fluid and drives it through the drain valve. This draining of IV fluid would usually be done during set up of the system or after training is completed.

In a typical trauma response situation the first system that a first responder either medic or paramedic interacts with is the human airway. In one embodiment the airway is anatomically accurate extending from the mouth and nose terminating at the primary bronchi in a connection system for attachment to the lung portals. Important landmarks visualized during intubation are modeled including but not limited to the tongue epiglottis and vocal cords. Anatomical features a medic is looking for during both standard and complicated airway management procedures are also represented. Tlus complete head and neck allows oral and nasal intubation as well as surgical airway procedures. The parts of this trainer that are destroyed during the surgical airway procedure are easily replaceable including trachea mainstem bronchi and outer skin covering with either Velcro closures or a similar adhesive backed material.

In another embodiment the airway management subsystem is designed to monitor what is important to the patient independent of treatment methodology. For instance when a trainee is faced with a multiple casualty scenario which ACS allows the trainee may use a combitube on one patient and oral airway on a second casualty but not have either airways or combitubes available for the next casualty in the scenario. The design allows this medic to appropriately treat the last casualty by potentially life saving mouth to mouth resuscitation and will record that as a correct decision. To achieve such a goal ACS monitoring of airway effectiveness functionality is driven by the end result measurement of bi directional airflow and corresponding lung volume not by monitored user intervention 

3D location of therapeutic devices or preprogrammed sequences of events. To achieve design goals of both standalone operation and intervention independence instruments used in intubation do not have their 3D position tracked or their use noted by an instructor rather the airflow to the lungs is monitored for increased or decreased flow. Flow sensors located at strategic areas in the bronchial tree passively measure this flow and feed this data into the central processor for processing and response generation. The criterion for successful intubation then becomes an increase in airflow to the lungs if provided at a time of need. Monitoring this at the lung level allows user intervention to be noted at any time during the training scenario rather than having an instructor watch what the user is doing at the current moment. Incorrect intubation past the carina and into a bronchus will be detected by the resulting left right asymmetry of bronchial airflow.

In one embodiment the lungs will be created from an elastomeric material similar to silicone that can be repetitively inflated and deflated via compressed air or a bellows system. When at atmospheric pressure the lungs will resemble a collapsed lung. When inflated with compressed air from the air pump system the lungs will expand and stretch the material to fully fill the pleural space. When the air is released the natural material properties of the lung will cause them to contract thus forcing the contained air out through the bronchi past the air flow sensors and then out through the mouth and nose.

In another embodiment during normal respiration air will be inhaled and exhaled through the mannequin s mouth and nostrils exhaled air will be able to be heard and felt by the medic during primary survey. The chest will rise and fall if airway is patent and ACS is breathing. Much like a human the lung drivers of the pulmonary subsystem will draw their air source in from the nasal and oral openings of the mannequin s head. If these openings are blocked or constricted the lung drivers will not be able to draw in as much air. This decrease in lung volume and subsequent airflow will be detected and recorded by the pair of airflow monitors located at the termination of the left and right bronchi. If decreased ventilation persists the CNS will appropriately begin to degrade the health of the mannequin computing appropriate cardiovascular and neurologic responses changing vital signs and by making the skin appear cyanotic creating gasping sounds or creating a bucking movement of the torso.

In another embodiment a section of the ribs on the side of the torso will be designed to allow easy insertion and removal of the pleural portal. This portal will also flex and move with the outer rib sections throughout the breathing cycle. The portal will include an outer layer of realistic skin anatomically correct muscle and fat layers integrated blood pack for superficial bleeding and structural rib and connection system. On the inside of the portal an airtight pleural sac will be molded from 10 mil polyethylene to simulate the lining of the pleural space. The lining will be firmly molded to the back of the rib portal to provide an accurate pop when a clamp punctures the pleural space. The pleural space will be both liquid and airtight. Nested inside of the pleural space will be the elastomeric lung and fittings for connection to the lung inflation system the air control system and the blood flow system. This will be the only connection necessary to install the entire portal assembly. If a chest tube or chest dart is placed this entire assembly will be replaced. This design was chosen to reduce the number of expensive sensors and materials that are destroyed during the process of relieving a tension pneumothorax or a hemothorax via needle decompression or chest tube thoracostomy respectively.

In another embodiment the section of skin and tissue layers that are destroyed during intervention comprise a replaceable portal area. A section of the rib cage is halved along the ribs and allow for the outer section to open along a hinge. Once opened a layer or either polyethylene or similar material could be trapped between the two sections forming a simulated pleural membrane which is resistant to puncture provides adequate pop and creates an air and water tight space behind it.

In another embodiment the polyethylene sheeting is dispensed from a replaceable roll situated along either the sternum or thoracic spine. This would allow easy turn around of the simulator to allow the next user to place a chest tube or chest dart into a pressurized chest cavity. This roll could dispense the sheeting either manually or be actuated by a motor driven mechanism.

In another embodiment when the system is operating the ACS central processor has the ability to fill the pleural space with either air or blood depending on the mannequin configuration selected via the control panel on the back. As the elastomeric lung is inflating and deflating air or blood can be leaked into the pleural space eventually preventing the lung from inflating. The solenoid valve on the lungs allows actual airflow into the lung with e ch squeeze of the artificial ventilation device while preventing air from leaving pressurizing the chest cavity and requiring needle decompression. If not treated the heart and circulation subsystems will respond to this decrease in airflow accordingly as will the tracheal deviation inflation units. During a tension pneumothorax for instance increased intrathoracic pressure with decreased venous return can generate distension of the jugular veins pressurizing the mannequin s jugular veins can simulate this sign and alert the medic to presence of this condition.

In another embodiment the centralized location of the airflow sensors will naturally detect a decrease in lung volume and translate it into the appropriate responses necessary for a medic to diagnose and treat the condition. With proper execution realistic release of air through the chest dart will occur if the pleural space is punctured. This design will also allow the medic to make a mistake and puncture the lung with the tip of the chest dart. If this occurs the lung will no longer be air tight and will not inflate when the air pump drives air into it. The end result will be reduced airflow past the central sensor thus allowing the central processor to sense this mistake and degrade the condition of the simulator appropriately.

In another embodiment another feature of this design is that in the event of a hemothorax the primary indicators of success are created for the medic allowing him to determine that his treatment was successful. If the pleural space is filled with blood as the central processor registers the amount of blood pumped into the pleural space and adjusts the baseline condition of the mannequin the presence of blood also restricts the lung from expanding. This is sensed as decreased airflow in the bronchial airflow sensor on that side. This sensing system in combination with the preconfigured settings on the rear control panel enables an accurate sequence of physiologic events to take place. Thus when the medic decides to place a chest tube blood will actually come out of the chest tube this being the primary indicator that the tube has been placed successfully and if suction is then applied to the tube the lung will reexpand and airflow in the corresponding bronchus will resume.

In another embodiment the respiratory system will mimic the structures of the human system. On each side of the chest will be a rigid pmtial rib cage shaped body. This body will include rib shaped and oriented sculpted features that will be palpable through over lying soft tissues which simulate skin fat and muscle as appropriate . This body will be mounted to such a linkage that it will rise and fall in a manner similar to the human rib cage motion during breathing. At a minimum this linkage will be a four bar linkage designed such that the lower margin of the rib cage body moves at approximately a 45 degree angle to the lengthwise axis of the mannequin and the upper margin of the ribcage body moves nearly parallel to this axis. More complex motions are also possible because the ribcage body has two independent degrees of freedom enabling both breathing styles that involve mostly the chest and diaphragmal breathing in which either the upper part of the chest or the lower part rises and falls predominantly .

In one embodiment the ribcage body forms the outer boundary of a sealed chamber of the same nature as the pleural cavity in the human body. The inner surface is part of the mannequin s internal frame and a flexible margin connects the inner and outer rigid elements thereby creating a closed cavity. This cavity includes ports mounted in the mannequin s internal frame that permits the injection of blood simulant or air and the removal of either so simulate the conditions of hemothorax pneumothorax and or tension pneumothorax.

In another embodiment a closed flexible bag containing a very soft foam like material with large pore spaces occupies the space between the ribcage body and the mannequin frame and act as the human lung. It has an opening that passes through the internal frame and connects with the airway components described below. The flexible bag is fashioned of a tough material that is resistant to punctures from surgical instruments. This bag has the shape of the cavity between the internal frame and the ribcage body when the ribcage body is in the fully exhaled state. The system is assembled in this condition so that there will be minimal volume inside the space but outside the bag. Thus when the ribcage body is actuated to inhale the change in volume in the bag is equal to that of the change in volume of the pleural cavity. This also enables the collapse of the bag when blood simulant or air is injected into the pleural cavity to simulate collapsed lung conditions.

In another embodiment the ribcage body will also have included a variety of openings that will be sealed by overlying soft tissue materials and or removable portals. These openings will support the treatment of the collapsed lung conditions by either releasing air through a thoracostomy needle or air or blood simulant through a chest tube. Because the design of the system parallels that of the human anatomy accurate responses will be presented namely the sudden release of air through the needle or the passage of blood simulant through the chest tube.

In one embodiment the quantity of air entering and leaving the lung chambers left and right will be measured using airflow sensors mounted to the internal frame and forming pmt of the passage of air from the trachea and primary bronchii elements to the flexible Iung bags. The trachea and primary bronchi are fashioned from anatomically realistic materials and include anatomy from the oral cavity down to a short distance past the carina. The left main bronchus will depart at a sharper angle than the right as is found anatomically.

Rate depth and rhythm of respiration will be computed and controlled by the central physiology processor. Respiratory rate and rhythm will respond to sensed changes in total blood volume hemodilution and airway patency as sensed by the bronchial airflow sensors . Severe angulation of a fractured C spine will be sensed and result in phrenic nerve paralysis and respiratory arrest.

In one embodiment ACS can exhibit several levels of consciousness LOCs conscious obtunded unconscious or unconscious and neurologically compromised irreversible loss of higher brain function. ACS level of consciousness responds to computed changes in systemic blood pressure and sensed changes in hemodilution and bronchial airflow. If conscious ACS exhibits signs and behaviors characteristic of a conscious human patient and the absence of these signs if unconscious 

In another embodiment ACS exhibits muscle tone when conscious skeletal joints exhibit a degree of resistance similar to that of an awake and responsive adult. When ACS becomes unconscious the joints become loose and the body floppy . ACS vocalizes slurred or incoherent speech if obtunded.

In another embodiment head motion is continuously sensed by solid state accelerometers. If the head is subjected to a sufficiently large force due to improper extrication transport or other handling the neurological system model will enter a state of concussion and loss of consciousness will occur.

In another embodiment ACS can simulate signs of a generalized tonic clonic seizure manifested by loss of consciousness body stiffening jaw clenching and simulated rhythmic muscle contractions resulting in shaking of the body. The implementation of these effects is via a seizure state in the neurological system.

In another embodiment an array of temperature sensors distributed in the limbs head and thorax of the system provide environmental temperature data that will be used in conjunction with a core temperature and thermoregulatory model to compute entry into hypothermic or hyperthermic states. In either state appropriate changes will be generated in vital signs such as heart rate respiratory rate and level of consciousness. For example a hypothermic ACS will become obtunded and unresponsive. Computational models of physiology will be designed around and optimized for trauma physiology and response to treatment in the field.

The animatronic systems of the ACS enable physical signs of the transition between consciousness and unconsciousness. Similarly to the head and neck elements the joints at the shoulders and hips are also designed to enable a transition between a stiff posable state and a limp state.

The hip and shoulder joints is to enable a range of motion similar to those of a normal trauma patient and in the case of a human form ACS this requires a spherical joint at each hip and shoulder location or a combination of other joints e.g. serial rotary joints or differential joints .

A medical simulator design innovation employed in multiple instances in the ACS is the use of sensors to actively measure physical variables associated with motion angulation force or acceleration followed by processing to detect whether the measured physical variable has exceeded limits that would cause injury in an actual nominal human being. We term this use of intelligent sensing to detect simulated if jury virtual fragility. The term indicates that we are replacing the actual fragility of a mechanical or structural element with a robust embodiment of the same element combined with sensing to detect the exceeding of limits on physical parameters that would have caused injury in an actual human patient.

For example a conventional method to detect whether a trainee has exerted forces or torques on a simulated patient s head of sufficient magnitude to cause injury to the cervical spine would be to build a simulated cervical spine of such material and construction that the simulated spine would have similar fracture limits as an actual human cervical spine. The spine would then fracture or dislocate under application of input forces and torques similar to those that would i jure an actual patient. The disadvantages to this method include that the broken elements of the simulated spine need to be physically replaced after each incidence of injury and there is no automated quantitative detection and recording of the time magnitude or duration of the action causing the injury.

In the inventive virtual fragility methodology physical fragility is replaced with intelligent sensing of physical parameters in a robust mechanical structure. In the example of detecting cervical spine injury just cited in one embodiment an angulation sensor goniometer and accelerometers are employed to continuously sense 1 the angle of the skull relative to the chest and 2 the acceleration of the head both absolute acceleration and acceleration of the head relative to the body. These sensors communicate with the central processor which is programmed to detect whether nominal physiological limits of cervical spine angulation and head acceleration have been exceeded. Tfso the program executing on the central processor records the time and sensor data during the injuring event and further may cause changes in physiological state for example a force to the head of sufficient magnitude may cause the ACS to enter an unconscious state.

In another embodiment the ACS eye system provides actuation in a number of different degrees of freedom. As with human eyes the eyes pitch move up down in unison but unlike human range of coordinated eye motion they yaw move left right in unison without including vergence aiming at a single point closer or farther away and they blink in unison rather than including a single eyelid winking action. Further it is possible for the user to manually open the eyelids individually to evaluate pupilary condition.

These capabilities enable the ACS unit to blink realistically exhibit rolling back of the eyes and closing of the eyelids during unconsciousness and look in the direction of human voices or loud noises demonstrating responsiveness.

The eye assembly unit includes a base frame forming the back of the unit and support arms that extend forward from it. To the support arms is mounted a pitch frame which pivots about an axis defined by the center points of each of the eyeballs. To the right end of the pitch frame is mounted an R C servo with its rotational axis passing through the center point of the right eye and perpendicular to the plane of the pitch frame. The right eyeball unit is mounted to the R C servo output shaft and to a bearing concentric with it below the R C servo to provide stability. A control arm extends backwards from the servo output shaft behind the eyeball. The left end of the pitch frame includes bearings to mount the left eyeball unit. The left eyeball unit includes a control arm extending backwards from its axis of the same length as the right eye control arm. The control and are connected to each other by a rigid link such that when the right eye R C servo turns the right eye the left eye turns through the same angle due to the action of the connecting linkage control arm rigid link control arm . This accomplishes the coupled yaw motion of the eyes. Depending on the choice of length of the rigid link the eyes may gaze in a perfectly parallel direction or if slightly longer may give the eyes a slight inward fixed vergence. The latter might give the user a slight sense that ACS is focusing on them rather than to the distance.

The pitch frame has mounted to it an R C servo that may have its rotational axis passing through the rotary axis of the pitch frame or it may be parallel but offset to it. In the former case this servo directly drives the pitch action of the pitch frame. In the latter a series of gears or a toothed belt drive will transmit the torque from the servo to the motion of the pitch frame. This accomplishes the pitch motion of the eyes moving in unison.

An alternative design mounts the servo to the base frame and through a gearing mechanism with a gear section mounted to the pitch frame drives the pitch frame about its axis. The eyes are protected from contamination and damage by a sealed clear housing as shown in . Unlike this figure the eyelids are mounted outside of the housing to provide manual access to them. The eyelids are mounted about the same axis as the pitch frame. A single servo mounted to the base frame with its axis parallel to the eyelid axis controls the eyelid action.

One embodiment includes manual actuation of the eyelids with control arms extending up and down from the eyelid component at the location of the rotary bearings. The upper and lower ends of the arms are attached to elastic cables that extend backwards from the eyelids. They are connected to control arms extending up and down from a shaft concentric with and mounted to the eyelid servo. As the servo rotates the upper control arm backwards the eyelid opens and vice versa. The presence of the elastic cables permits a user to manually hold the eyes closed when otherwise in an open state or open when in a closed state. Upon release the eyelids return to the state determined by the ACS consciousness level. The elastic cables prevent damage to the servo due to excessively rapid back driving which could occur if there was a geared or belted comlection between the servo and the eyelid components. Speed of eyelid motion is controlled by the rate of servo motion and increased further by selecting long servo control arms and short eyelid control arms.

Another embodiment describes the range of motion of the eyelids limited by hard stops in the skull face unit. The eyelid servo is commanded to open the eyes slightly beyond the open limit and close beyond the closed limit. In this manner there will be a slight preload due to the elastic cables that prevents the eyelids from being free to oscillate which remains a possibility if the eyelids are commanded to an intermediate position between open and closed . Suitable selection of bearing materials with some finite friction minimize this though care must be taken so that the friction is not so high that the elastic cable forces are lower than the friction forces.

In one embodiment the eye assembly is a self contained unit that could be easily replaced if damaged rather than requiring disassembly of excessively large numbers of components from the ACS head. The eyes and constructed within a sealed self contained unit. The housing prevents damage to the system and prevents fluids from entering the actuator systems. The eyes are actuated so that they pitch and yaw in unison and the pupils are independently controllable. Another embodiment employs servomotors of the type used in radio control vehicles to actuate the eye motion. The eyelids are mounted externally to the sealed unit so they may be manually opened by users. A cam mechanism opens both eyelids simultaneously which close upon retraction of the cam through a spring which maintains contact between the eyelids and the cam. This spring is of sufficient compliance so that the user may open the eyelid with effort similar to that required to open a human eyelid.

An alternative embodiment employs low pressure pneumatic cylinders to drive the eyelid motion. The pressure is selected such that it is not high enough to prevent manual actuation but is sufficient to maintain the open or closed state regardless of the posture or orientation of the head.

The irises are constructed as toroidal balloons mounted such that they are prevented from expanding radially when inflated therefore contracting the pupil instead. They are actuated pneumatically.

In one embodiment the skeleton is the fundamental structural element of the entire system. In an exemplary embodiment the ACS skeletal chassis is extremely durable made from a combination of non brittle resin and reinforced metal components and naturally articulated to move and breathe like a real human. For example the rib sections are articulated only in the areas necessary to ensure that a medic can determine that the casualty is breathing both unilaterally and bilaterally and can realistically administer CPR.

The skeletal system is anatomically correct in areas that are important for correct diagnosis and treatment as well as in areas that affect natural movement. The skeleton articulates in the appropriate major joints cervical spine lumbar spine shoulders elbows wrists hips knees and ankles. Anatomic position of the skeleton is monitored with flex sensors in key locations while overall body location in the training environment is recorded by an on board GPS unit allowing tracking of the system s position during initial treatment and evacuation. Reference landmarks are obvious and durable for example the inguinal ligament is a durable landmark to identify the femoral pulses.

The skeleton has three modes conscious obtunded and unconscious. Conscious mode keeps certain muscle groups tensed to aid in movement and transportation of the mannequin. However if the on board central physiology processor determines on the basis of continuous observation of physiological parameters responding to injury treatment that the casualty loses consciousness the muscle groups release and the skeleton goes limp and becomes very difficult to carry. This can be done either with mechanical solenoid movement or with electromagnets at key areas such as the hips and scapulae. Other embodiments would be releasable detent type mechanisms joints smoothly snap into various positions but the detent mechanism is retractable to allow free motion air bladders pressing friction pads against each other within the joint and for the spine running a tension cable through its length which can then be tightened or loosened to change neck tone.

The cervical spine incorporates an accelerometer to provide relative position for the head unit. The skull has an accelerometer to register forces sustained during treatment and movement of the casualty. This data indicates when serious additional injuries are sustained during the treatment phase after initial injury.

In one embodiment in the same way that the intercostal muscle groups contract and the costo vertebral and costo chondral joints flex to create the rise and fall of the chest ACS creates similar flexibility using contractile actuators to drive the rib cage up and down. This is in keeping with the paradigm of duplicating where feasible the natural anatomy of the body and its functions.

In another embodiment the shoulder system combines several technologies into a novel system for replicating accurate anatomical movement of human shoulder anatomy. Beginning at the sternum the clavicular strut is created from an accurately shaped 0.50 to 0.75 metal rod. The sternal termination of this clavicular strut is comprised of a high displacement ball end which is held in place by a 0.25 OD partially threaded bolt. The opposite end of the clavicle connects rigidly to a scapular hub via either a threaded connection with a setscrew or with a pressure fitting which when clamped prevents the clavicle from rotating relative to the hub. For extreme torsional pressures the clavicular strut may be through bolted to ensure proper alignment and prevent rotation within the hub if substantial pressure is applied to the shoulder assembly. The location of the joint between the clavicular strut and the scapular hub mimics that of the acromion in real human anatomy. It s height and width should replicate the appropriate landmarks to provide realistic feeling to the user.

Rigidly attached to the back of the scapular hub is the second half of the clavicular wishbone. This wishbone is attached to a central rotary damper that provides a configurable amount of damping force against the rotational forces exerted by the wishbone assembly.

The design of the jointing systems allows central processor control of muscle tone but every joint has a built in amount of tolerance to allow a natural amount of play when articulated. This tolerance enables ACS to feel like a real human when moved carried or lifted. These tolerances are specific to each joint location.

The neck employs a combination of pneumatic cylinders flexible cables and a heavy spring to generate motion and changes in muscle tone. One cylinder changes the compression of the spring which is constrained by an upper plate and compressed by the cylinder below. The cylinder is rigidly mounted to the thoracic skeletal structure. The upper plate is constrained by three or more cables. When in the uncompressed state the neck is limp and can easily be moved manually. It is further of insufficient stiffness to support the weight of the head against gravity. When compressed the spring shortens and increases tension in the cables. In this state the neck is of sufficient stiffness to support its own weight and resists manual manipulation.

The head is caused to turn in the yaw direction through the use of a rotary pneumatic actuator. It has a range of motion of approximately 60 degrees in each of the left and right directions. The flexibility of the neck allows slightly more motion in either direction.

Alternative embodiments include the replacement of the pneumatic cylinders with electromechanical linear actuators such as lead screws that cannot be back driven. The shoulder joint employs a ball joint similar to those used in camera tripod mounts. It allows spherical motion and is controllable such that resistance to motion can be varied. When in high resistance mode the arms will resist motion relative to the body making it easier to move the body as a unit. When in low resistance mode the arms will be limp.

Skeletal motion is detected via a pair of perpendicularly oriented accelerometers. These were selected due to their minimal drift high temperature tolerance minimal size and cost effectiveness. The horizontal sensor is oriented along the axial plane of the skull and records forward and backward motion as well as side to side movement of the skull relative to the base of the neck. A second accelerometer is angled at 90 degrees to the first sensor and provides twisting data of the skull relative to the base of the neck. These sensors are housed in a shockproof and waterproof container that keeps them out of harms way.

At the base of the neck is a second pair of similarly orientated accelerometers that provide a reference plane for the ACS body. Without this it may not be possible to differentiate that the head of ACS is twisted to one side from the whole body of ACS being in a similar position. These systems function regardless of orientation and do not require a calibration phase due to their method of detection. The sensors selected use a small heating element to create micro eddies of thermal difference to gather position data relative to gravity.

When the head accelerometers detect a difference in the angle of the torso they will attempt to orient the head so as to keep a parallel horizontal plane relative to gravity. This assumes that the skeleton is in conscious mode. The purpose of this is to make the head movement more realistic. It would do this by articulating the neck actuators accordingly. Body angle orientation will be continuously recorded if a medic fails to roll a body to examine the back for an exit wound for example this can be seen in the data record.

The central processing unit is mounted within a reopenable and resealable container mounted within the structure of the internal skeleton. Connections leaving the container are sealed through the application of high temperature silicone. Circuitry and otherwise exposed connectors are similarly sealed throughout the system. The audio input and output system in the head i.e. loudspeaker and ear mounted microphones can be provided as commercial waterproof systems.

Wiring and tubing that passes through joint regions is selected and routed so that they have an unlimited lifetime of repetitive flexing or bending. Wiring in rigid regions passes through protective channels within the skeleton s members. Rugged electrical and fluid connectors are used at the limb attachment points upper and lower legs and arms and the connectors are physically reinforced using aligned rods and sockets and attachment is achieved using robust mechanical latches. One embodiment uses a latching system similar to that of airline seat belt buckles.

One possible jointing system involves the use of light pipes as a main bridge for cross joint communication. A system of infrared LED emitters and receivers would allow non contact transmission of data across major articulated areas such as the elbow and knee. Semi circular disks of acrylic or similar plastic would reflect light passed through the broad side of the plastic through its length out to the edge where similarly it would be received by the opposite LED. This configuration would also allow the joint condition to degrade gracefully over time as no matter how scratched the joint lighting system becomes the receiver would be sensitive enough to compensate. The use of infrared light would permit usage at night without light leakage.

Another embodiment for the power transmission is to incorporate positive and negative sides to each long bone member. The outer half of the bone could be a substantial grounded electrical member as well as providing the strong structural qualities found in conductive metals. The center half of the bone would provide positive power to the extremities. Brush connectors or some large easily cleanable contacts would facilitate power transmission reliably during harsh conditions found in military training environments.

In an exemplary embodiment where ACS is a tetherless autonomous system there is the requirement that it has an internal power supply. Embodiments can include compressed gas and rechargeable batteries. Less preferred systems might include fuel cells or hybrid engine generator systems.

Compressed gas can be used to provide motive force for mechanical actuators and brakes however to provide a sufficient lifetime high pressure gas is employed with a compressor to recharge the unit between uses. In addition the embedded computer and control valves would require electrical power.

In one embodiment ACS makes use of rechargeable batteries to supply power for the computer actuator brake and sensor systems. A small air compressor run intermittently is employed to pressurize the blood simulant reservoir. One exemplary system is the Milwaukee V28 battery system. This commercially available battery system was designed for use with heavy duty cordless power tools and is currently has the highest power storage capacity of any cordless power tool battery. The recharge cycle is one hour in duration.

The battery is rated at 3 Amp hours at 28V. A single battery can supply the central processor module at its estimated power consumption of 1OW for eight hours of continuous use. In one embodiment two batteries are used to provide power for the total system with care taken to minimize power consumption in the braking and actuator system.

An exemplary embodiment provides a user friendly system to recharge the battery packs. A recharging system converts power supplied from such sources as 11OVAC typical of house hold outlets or vehicular 12VDC or 24VDC or others that may be deemed useful by the user into DC current and or voltage trajectory that rapidly charges partially or fully discharged battery packs. It consists of the electrical conversion and control circuitry and a portable housing which includes space to enclose the circuitry and form fitting enclosures into which the battery packs are inserted to mate with water resistant connectors of a type which mate with those integral to the battery packs. The recharging system is splash and rain resistant to support outdoor use or use in environments in which incidental contact with water or other fluids is possible.

In one embodiment tactile controls are used robust physical knobs with detents that click into position switches that give unambiguous tactile feedback and clear visual indicators. Physical controls have the beneficial property of unambiguous affordance they move and actuate in simple intuitive ways. Rotating a dial or pushing a switch is intuitive to every user whereas training or at least a user manual is often required to understand the interface conventions of complex software particularly if hidden menus and modal dialogs are used.

In another embodiment continuous rotary encoders and momentary contact push button switches i.e. stateless controls with LEDs to indicate the parameters selected by the controls. Compared to conventional rotary and linear switches that indicate their position by their physical position stateless controls offer several advantages. First this approach permits one button reset of the entire control panel. When setting up a new scenario it is often helpful to start with a clean slate. With conventional controls all dials and switches must be physically returned to their off or default positions to reset the system. This is time consuming and if a previously set switch is inadvertently overlooked a function may be mistakenly selected. By using stateless controls to select parameters which are indicated by separate LED displays we can perform a soft reset that returns all parameters to their off settings this is then appropriately indicated by the LEDs. The controls themselves do not have to be moved to perform this reset.

In another embodiment the use of stateless controls and separate indicators also enables the capability to set or change any parameter on the control panel remotely via the Instructor Remote Monitor. The change is wirelessly communicated to the system which then sets the appropriate parameters and changes the corresponding LED indicators. The control panel always shows the correct current settings of all parameters even if they have been changed remotely.

In another embodiment the configuration of the panel is obvious at a glance there is one control for each function. The current setting for each function can be determined simply by looking at the control There are no hidden controls such as functions hidden in drop down menus a medic instructor can learn ACS functionality by inspection of the control panel. In a very real sense the control panel is self instructive it is the user manual.

In another embodiment the controls can be set in any order and changed at any time there are no sequences to learn or memorize. Each control specifies one and only one action and nearly all functions are independent of other controls a few dependencies are appropriately handled for example if another action is set to occur during non responsive cardiac arrest the action will not execute . In the terminology of user interface design this is a non modal interface offering direct access to each of ACS features.

Numerical values for activation times and durations are entered via rotary encoders and displayed with backlit LCD displays. Activation times are specified in minutes from the scenario start time t 0 . Bar graph indicators will be used to show the battery charge RF signal strength from the Instructor Remote Monitor and the levels of the internal reservoirs for blood and IV fluid.

In one embodiment the control panel will be protected by a hinged cover. A flexible gasket encircles the periphery of the cover sealing the control panel from moisture and dirt. All controls will be illuminated so the panel can be configured during field exercises at night. Panel illumination can be turned off if desired. A microswitch or magnetic proximity switch keyed to the cover hinge motion is used to automatically turn off the indicator lights and panel illumination when the panel is closed to conserve power a refrigerator light mechanism .

Audio output such as speech labored respiratory sounds and other vocalizations is digitally recorded in a studio then edited formatted and transferred to non volatile solid state memory in the central processor. The individual sounds are stored in an indexed database so individual phrases responses or sounds can be triggered as desired.

When triggered the stored digital waveforms are sent to a digital to analog D A converter and output to an audio amplifier and loudspeaker. In one embodiment the speaker is a long throw voice coil model with a polypropylene cone and a butyl rubber surround sourced from a supplier of car stereo systems built to be weather and shock resistant and designed to function reliably in extremes of temperature. The speaker is mounted in the skull cavity not the oropharynx to avoid interference with airway assistive devices with acoustic channels built into the zygomatic arches and other facial bones so that the sound will be perceived as emanating from the face.

The human voice is a cue for presence and simulator realism so to achieve the highest sound fidelity a preemphasis frequency equalization system can be employed. The f1 equency response of the audio output system is measured the amplifier and speaker with the speaker in place in the head. A 20 Hz to 20 kHz frequency sweep is played through the amplifier and speaker and the resulting sound output is recorded at a typical medic distance from the body using an instrumentation grade microphone with a flat frequency response. The microphone signal is digitally recorded and Fourier transformed using Matlab to obtain the frequency response of the audio output system. A compensating frequency response function is then computed this function gives the frequency response curve that flattens the amplifier speaker frequency response to produce an even response over the audio range. The digital recordings of voice and other vocalizations are preemphasized i.e. prefiltered with the compensating frequency response curve before being stored in system memory for playback. The result is high fidelity sound output for these recordings despite the relatively small speaker diameter and other acoustic constraints of a speaker system mounted in the volume of a human head.

In one embodiment while no additional apparatus or controller is required to set up the desired trauma scenario an illustrative embodiment employs a wireless monitor to give an instructor the ability if desired to program start and end a scenario remotely. The monitor also permits an instructor to view vital signs and other data in real time monitor scenario progress and remotely alter the scenario as desired. Access to more advanced features and configuration data of the ACS computing core can be accessed via the Advanced panel on the tablet PC. ACS will allow real time display and control of the physiologic subsystems and their interaction throughout its operation.

Once the training sessions have been completed and the simulation has ended in one embodiment the Scenario Coordinator will use the wireless tablet PC to download the recorded medical treatment data via a simple Graphical User Interface GUI on the tablet PC. This data represents all of the variables and data points collected by the sensors throughout the mannequin during the training scenario. This data is then parsed by the Automated Debriefing software and turned into a series of talking points that are correlated to medical events that occurred during the simulation.

The purpose of the Automated Debriefing system is not to replace the medic instructor but to generate talking points around which a higher level of conversation can take place between the unaided medic and the instructor. Because ACS functions as a standalone unit the instructor may not be present to witness the treatment provided to the casualty. During these debriefing sessions the instructor will have access to the identities of the medics the entire medical treatment history vital signs hemodynamic values and interventional events that were generated or controlled by the medics during the FTX as well as access to the specific mannequin configuration settings which were preset by the Scenario Coordinator at the beginning of the session. This data will provide the instructor a better tool for reviewing the decisions the medic made.

Because the physiologic data collected by ACS can be compared to the configuration settings established prior to the FTX and because the system design allows intervention independent interpretation of treatment standardized debriefing summaries can be generated. This standardization ensures consistent training among instructors a Military Occupation Specialty MOS which rotates relatively frequently. Decisions regarding relative weighting of treatments criteria for successful treatment and triage priorities can be established by the instructor corps.

In another embodiment by design ACS simplifies training requirements for the medic instructors. Basic system operation is simple. Access to the deeper level programming possibilities is possible through the tablet interface allowing instructors with more advanced training to modify training requirements or specific areas to be tested.

In another embodiment by combining continuous physiology and time integration the new medic training system can create individualized milestone linked timelines of care. This capability transparently records time of injury time to airway control time to hemorrhage control effectiveness of treatment and other important milestones identified by the instructors. At the end of each exercise every student is be given a personalized time stamped record of intervention which will serve as the student s physical record of performance and which can be archived electronically as the instructor s record of individual and class performance.

The function of the air and fluid pressurization block is to store high pressure air and provide air at lower pressures to the neck articulation system and the fluidic systems of the ACS. High pressure air is stored in one or more reservoirs at 150 psi which is reduced to 30 psi and 4 psi through two different regulators . The 30 psi air is supplied to the neck articulation system described below. The low pressure air is supplied first to the blood simulant pressurization chambers through a normally closed NC two way three port solenoid valve with spring return . Upon startup of the ACS this valve opens pressurizing the blood simulant. During refit of the ACS the valve returns to its NC state and the pressurized air is allowed to exhaust through a silencer . The low pressure air is also supplied through a normally open NC two way three port solenoid valve with spring return to the intravenous IV fluid collection and ejection chambers . During normal operation the chamber is exhausted allowing the IV fluid collection bag to expand as it accepts administered IV fluid. During refit of the ACS the valve opens forcing IV fluid out of the collection bags and through an NC two way two port valve and out of the ACS.

Installation and replacement of the blood simulant containers is enabled through the use of self sealing quick discorulect valves . Measurement of hemorrhage of blood simulant is accomplished with a flow sensor and the quantity of IV fluid administered is measured with a second flow sensor . Blood simulant is prevented from flowing out through the ACS fluidic systems prematurely by a NC two way two port solenoid valve with spring return .

The ACS torso includes four quick disconnect structural fluidic electrical SFE connectors one each located at the left and right shoulder and left and right hips joints. Each connector includes fluidic channels for blood simulant and IV fluid and electrical connectors to support sensors and actuators described above and below. To these connectors may be attached any appropriate limb trauma module examples of which are described as follows.

The upper limb either arm or leg traumatic amputation module includes a mating SFE connector . As IV fluid will not be administered to a traumatically amputated limb there is no active IV fluid connector element in this module. The blood simulant c01mector supplies fluid to three outlets. Two corresponding with arterial flow and soft tissue seepage are controlled with a NC two way two port spring returned solenoid valve which enables the generation of pulsatile flow and the cessation of flow upon proper tourniquet or other hemostatic device placement. The third outlet corresponds with bone marrow seepage which is modulated only by internal blood pressure.

The upper limb undamaged IV collection module includes a mating SFE connector and at the distal end a second SFE connector to attach to a lower limb module . The blood simulant enters the module and is channeled either to the lower limb module or to the IV fluid collection loop by a two way three port spring returned solenoid valve . The fluid flow to the lower limb is understood from the schematic. The flow to the IV fluid collection loop is momentarily enabled during refit to fill the loop with blood simulant. The loop includes a self sealing elastomeric vein and a pair of one way check valves with low but non zero cracking pressure which are arranged anti parallel to each other in series with the TV loop. The check valves cause a back pressure which causes blood simulant to slightly expand the elastomeric vein and optional clastomeric bladder to increase available simulant . This pressurized blood simulant is expelled through an IV needle placed into the vein recreating the phenomenon referred to as flash back . The check valve oriented to allow flow back towards the clastomeric vein is present so that if an IV needle is placed and either an IV bag is placed below the elevation of the ACS or if the needle is left unattached and the arm is lowered below the IV collection chambers IV fluid will flow out of the needle. This loss of fluid is measured by the flow sensor mentioned above.

The lower limb traumatic amputation module is hydraulically equivalent to the upper limb traumatic amputation module . Its SFE connector is designed to enable connection only to the distal end of a matching upper limb IV collection module preventing direct attachment of a lower limb to the shoulder or the hip.

The lower limb IV collection module is hydraulically equivalent to the upper limb IV collection module with the exception that there is no distal SFE connector to attach additional limb segments.

The schematic diagram shows a variety of possible combinations of upper and lower limb trauma and IV collection modules. As illustrated this configuration includes a traumatic upper arm amputation module a combination of an upper arm IV collection module and a lower arm traumatic amputation module a combination of upper and lower leg IV collection modules and an upper leg traumatic amputation module . It should be recognized that the function of the traumatic amputation modules would be duplicated in a non amputation module with major hemorrhage functionality.

The schematic shows that the ACS torso contains the systems to supply and measure blood simulant lost collect and measure IV fluid administered and or lost control the limb module valving and pulsing see below and record module sensor signals e.g. tourniquet pressure sensing see below .

The ACS torso also contains the pleural cavities which are capable of simulating hemo thorax pneumo thorax and tension pneumo thorax conditions. The conditions are created in the ACS by admitting low pressure air or blood simulant into one or both of the pleural cavities . This flow is controlled by a series of NC two way two port spring returned solenoid valves . During refit the low pressure air or blood simulant is ejected from the pleural cavities by opening exhaust valves also NC two way two port spring return solenoid valves .

The neck articulation system also part of the ACS torso and is comprised of four McKibben type air muscles each of which is activated by a NC two way three port spring returned solenoid valve all of which are exhausted to a common silencer .

The ACS features unilateral and bilateral chest motion and will respond to appropriate cardiopulmonary resuscitation. In addition it respires drawing in and exhaling room air when not in pulmonary arrest or subject to an obstructed airway. This is accomplished in a biomimetic fashion in that the motion of the chest wall expands the volume of the pleural space drawing in air through the airway system see above and expelling it when the chest wall contracts.

The motion of the four bar mechanism can be accomplished in a variety of ways including rotary actuators mounted at any of the four pin joints linear actuators acting between a hinged joint on the ACS frame and a point along the length of one of the links . A practitioner skilled in the art will conceive of other methods in addition to these. In this embodiment each of the four bar mechanisms is driven by a ball screw mechanism driven by an electric motor. The ball screw provides a low friction back driveable linear actuation mode such that a sufficiently large force will prevent chest wall motion and passage of air into the ACS lungs .

Also shown in there is a spring element between the sternal body and the ACS frame . This spring has a stiffness of approximately 50 Jbs inch corresponding with the stiffness of the human chest in response to the application of the chest compressions of CPR. The range of motion of the spring is slightly more than 2 inches corresponding with the ideal compression depth of CPR. Sensors to detect depth of compression are mounted concentrically with the spring but may also be placed at the pivot point of the sternum or in other locations.

The treatment of hemothorax and pneumothorax require dissection through the chest wall at an appropriate location and puncturing through the pleural layer on the inside of the chest wall to enable placement of a tube that will drain air blood or other fluids. The treatment of tension pneumothorax requires the insertion of a hollow needle through the chest wall to relieve the pressurized air within the pleural cavity.

The tension pneumothorax chamber comprises a section of the anterior costal body in the region corresponding with the first through the fourth rib and interior sealed walls . The bottom of the chamber is covered in a pliable material to simulate soft tissues that may be contacted upon excessively deep insertion of the hollow needle thoracentesis needle. The elevated pressure within this chamber is created when low pressure air from the combined pneumatic and blood simulant system see above is admitted. An alternate embodiment makes use of a flexible lower layer of the chamber which is driven by a linear actuator such that in the default state the chamber volume is large and upon generation of the tension pneumothorax condition the linear actuator pushes the flexible layer towards the costal body increasing the internal pressure. The tension pneumothorax section of the costal body is removable. It consists structurally of a series of rib shaped members linked at their ends with a surrounding frame . It is covered on its outer surface with a skin mimicking polymer material and on the inner surface by an easily replaceable plastic membrane . The edges of the surrounding frame mate with a sealing lip that forms part of the main costal body .

The hemothorax pneumothorax chamber similarly comprises a removable outer section of the costal body and an interior sealed space. Pneumothorax is achieved in the same way as the tension pneumothorax chamber by the injection of air from the pneumatic and blood simulant system see above. Hemothorax is generated by the injection of blood stimulant. The schematic of shows the arrangement of valves and fluid pathways. As the forces generated during the chest wall dissection and pleura puncture are much larger than for needle thoracentesis the plastic membrane is held between a fixed set of inner half rib shaped members that are part of the costal body and a removable set of matching outer half rib shaped members . The outer set of ribs is similarly held together by a surrounding frame is hinged at the sternal margin of the costal body and has a latching feature at the mid axillary margin of the costal body .

In the case of both chambers water resistant pressure sensors are installed to enable closed loop control of the pneumothorax hemothorax or tension pneumothorax states such that the rapid increase corresponding with tension pneumothorax or the slower pressure increase of the other two conditions can be properly generated.

rotational axis passing through the center point of the right eye and perpendicular to the plane of the pitch frame . The right eyeball unit is mounted to the R C servo output shaft and to a bearing concentric with it below the R C servo to provide stability. A control arm extends backwards from the servo output shaft behind the eyeball . The left end of the pitch frame includes bearings to mount the left eyeball unit . The left eyeball unit includes a control arm extending backwards from it s axis of the same length as the right eye control arm . The control arms are connected to each other by a rigid link such that when the right eye R C servo turns the right eye the left eye turns through the same angle due to the action of the connecting linkage control arm rigid link control arm . This accomplishes the coupled yaw motion of the eyes. Depending on the choice of length of the rigid link the eyes may gaze in a perfectly parallel direction or if slightly longer may give the eyes a slight inward fixed vergence. The latter might give the user a slight sense that ACS is focusing on them rather than to the distance.

The pitch frame has mounted to it an R C servo which may have its rotational axis passing through the rotary axis of the pitch frame or it may be parallel but offset to it. In the former case this servo directly drives the pitch action of the pitch frame . In the latter a series of gears or a toothed belt drive will transmit the torque from the servo to the motion of the pitch frame . This accomplishes the pitch motion of the eyes moving in unison. An alternative design would mount the servo to the base frame and through a gearing mechanism with a gear section mounted to the pitch frame would drive the pitch frame about its axis.

The eyes are protected from contamination and damage by a sealed clear housing . The eyelids will be mounted outside of the housing to provide manual access to them. The eyelids will be mounted about the same axis as the pitch frame . A single servo mounted to the base frame with its axis parallel to the eyelid axis controls the eyelid action.

One implementation that includes manual actuation of the eyelids includes control arms extending up and down from the eyelid component at the location of the rotary bearings. The upper and lower ends of the arms are attached to elastic cables would extend backwards from the eyelids . They in turn are connected to control arms extending up and down from a shaft concentric with and mounted to the eyelid servo. As the servo rotates the upper control arm backwards the eyelid opens and vice versa. The presence of the elastic cables would permit a user to manually hold the eyes closed when otherwise in an open state or open when in a closed state. Upon release the eyelids would return to the state determined by the ACS consciousness level. The elastic cables will also prevent damage to the servo due to excessively rapid back driving which could occur if there was a geared or belted connection between the servo and the eyelid components. Speed of eyelid motion can be controlled by the rate of servo motion and increased further by selecting long servo control arms and short eyelid control arms.

The range of motion of the eyelids will be limited by hard stops in the skull face unit. The eyelid servo will be commanded to open the eyes slightly beyond the open limit and close beyond the closed limit. In this manner there will be a slight preload due to the elastic cables that will prevent the eyelids from being free to oscillate which remains a possibility if the eyelids are commanded to an intermediate position between open and closed . Suitable selection of bearing materials with some finite friction would minimize this though care must be taken so that the friction is not so high that the elastic cable forces are lower than the friction forces.

Ideally the eye assembly is a self contained unit that could be easily replaced if damaged rather than requiring disassembly of excessively large numbers of components from the ACS head.

The animatronic components are made up of the flexible neck elements and their associated air muscles the pan tilt mechanism located within the skull housing the variable resistance shoulder and hip joints not shown are the SFE cmmectors which would be connected at the end of each of the short tube segments . In addition the eye system and the jaw are actuated. shows more clearly the scapular elements of the shoulder mechanism and the fluid dampers attached to the lower margin of the scapulae and the ACS torso frame .

Not shown is the access door at the lower back which provides for the removal and replacement of the battery packs and the blood simulant containers .

Referring again to in one embodiment blood simulant is created by injecting concentrated liquid colorant and thickener into one liter bags of saline solution which are then agitated to thoroughly mix the components. These bags of blood simulant form the disposable yet refillable simulant containers.

To install blood simulant containers the simulator back panel is opened exposing the two cavities in the torso that are occupied by one modified pressure infusion bag each e.g. Ethox Corp. Tnfu surg pressure infuser bag . The simulant container is placed inside the pressure infusion bag and the spike connector is inserted through the main port of the simulant container .

The pressure infusion bag is connected to the low pressure circuit of the pneumatic system described in .

During the priming sequence the pressure infusion bag is pressurized to approximately 4 psi using pressurized air from the air cylinders regulated to 4 psi by the low pressure regulator . This pressure is sufficient to generate arterial bleeding during uncontrolled hemorrhage simulation.

Under physiological conditions of reduced blood pressure reduction of bleeding flow rate and uncontrolled arterial spurting is achieved by reducing the duty cycle of open phase of the arterial flow valves see . An alternate embodiment of the system achieves reduced apparent blood pressure by controllably changing the setting of the low pressure regulator through the use of a servo motor of the radio control type however other servo motors are similarly suitable . A further alternate embodiment of the system achieves reduced apparent blood pressure by employing continuously variable analog valves rather than binary on off valves as the arterial flow valves by reducing the maximum opening of the valve during each pulse.

Upon removal and replacement of empty simulant containers the simulator back panel is opened the spike connector removed from the empty container and the container removed from the infusion pressure bag .

In another embodiment blood simulant is contained within a pair of refillable cylinders containing a piston. At the upper end of the cylinder is a fitting that seals itself when disconnected from the rest of the system and another fitting with the same property is mounted at the lower end. The piston with seals around its circumference can be driven downwards by air pressure pushing the blood simulant through the lower fitting. The lower end cap of the cylinder can be removed for maintenance and for refilling.

The air pressure applied to the cylinder is sufficient to generate arterial spurting from simulated arterial bleeders in suitably designed limbs. Pulsatile flow is generated by controlling the opening and closing of valves leading to the limbs in question. Reduction of flow rates corresponding with a reduction of blood pressure can be achieved either by reducing the air pressure applied to the cylinder or by restricting the flow out of it using a suitable valve or by individually controlling the valves leading to the hemorrhaging limb s so that they do not open completely thereby reducing the outflow. In another embodiment the blood simulant cylinders will be easily replaceable from the mannequin by making use of quick release fittings and integrated retention systems including the back panel of the mannequin which would also serve to hold the cylinders in place.

Each of the embodiments of the blood pressurization and containment systems is self contained within the volume and anatomical constraints of a nominal human form. Tubing would extend from either blood system and transport pressurized blood simulant to each of the extremities. This would enable for example the torso to act as a full featured platform even if the trauma modules connected do not require pulsatile flow.

A serial chain of five universal joints u joints connect the simulator torso and head. The u joints are of sufficient strength such that the entire weight of the mannequin can be supported by any one of them. The u joints which are typically purchased as individual elements are connected to each other by modifying them such that one end forms a short rod and the other a mating hole see . The rod of one u joint is inserted into the mating hole of the next and a transverse pin of sufficient strength is removably inserted into a transverse hole that passes through both the rod end and mating hole . The transverse pin is mounted such that it can only be removed through deliberate action and may be a press fit pin threaded element with suitable thread locking material or other similar element.

Coincident with the mating location between adjacent u joints is mounted a cervical disk element . This element is mounted such that it cannot rotate about the longitudinal axis of the u joints . The cervical disk serves as the mounting element for an air muscle guide which can freely rotate about the axis of the cervical disk . In this embodiment the air muscle guides maintain the alignment of the air muscles and the distance of the air muscle from the axis of the u joint chain . In alternate embodiments employing cables or other flexible elements to provide stiffness or animatronic motion similar air muscle guides would also be employed to maintain the geometric relations between the stiffening elements and the u joint chain .

Between each pair of cervical disks or the last cervical disk and the base plate a pair of angle limiters is mounted co axial with the u joint . The exposed surface of each angle limiter has a geometry such that when the u joint bends its motion is limited by contact between exposed surfaces. The geometry of the exposed surface of the angle limiters is generated such that a straight line through the central joint of the u joint is coincident with the exposed surface and that this straight line corresponds with the desired angular limit of bending in a given direction. For example as shown in the straight line through the sagittal plane of the joint has an angle of 3.75 degrees with respect to horizontal while the line through the coronal plane has an angle of 5.625 degrees with respect to horizontal. These angles are selected such that the limits of motion of the full u joint angle limiter system are 45 degrees to either side in lateral flexion and 30 degrees in both flexion and extension which correspond to the approximate ranges of motion of the human cervical spine.

At the top of the u joint chain is a pan tilt mechanism which achieves the remaining motions of the head neck system including an additional 30 degrees of flexion and extension and the full 80 degrees in rotation to both the left and right. The pan tilt mechanism is described further below. Of note here is the pan plate of the pan tilt mechanism which is mounted to the u joint chain such that it can rotate about the axis of the chain but can supp011 the axial load of the weight of the simulator. In the current embodiment an aircraft bearing which can resist both large radial loads and large axial loads enables the motion of the pan plate . As the pan tilt mechanism causes rotation of the head about the u joint chain the pan plate rotates with it. The which are rigidly attached to the pan plate and the base plate twist about the u joint chain and the air muscle guides which can rotate with respect to the cervical disks twist with them while still maintaining the distance of the air muscles from the chain axis.

Below the base plate are mounted the components to generate changes in passive neck stiffness. shows a lead screw and a push plate which includes a threaded element that mates with the lead screw . The lead screw is driven by the neck stifthess motor via a pair of spur gears . Alternatively the lead screw could be replaced by a ball screw system and the spur gears could be replaced by a belt drive cable drive or other transmission or the neck stiffness motor could be coupled coaxially with the lead screw . In this embodiment the transmission is employed as space for a coaxial arrangement is not available in the simulator torso. To the push plate are mounted a pair of stiffening rods which are aligned parallel to the lead screw . When the stiffening rods are at the fully retracted position the u joint chain can be freely moved up to the limits imposed by the angle limiters and the pan tilt mechanism . When the neck stiffness motor turns the lead screw to move the stiffening rods into the extended position the stiffening rods pass through holes in each of the cervical disks . When extended the u joints can still bend but the bending motion is resisted by the stiffening rods . This generates a response similar the difference between an unconscious patient s neck which is completely limp and a conscious patient s neck which can support the weight of the head or resist externally imposed motions. To ensure that the stiffening rods pass through the matching holes in the cervical disks the rods pass through guide tubes which are flexible low friction tubes that are resident within the cervical disk holes . The guide tubes are rigidly connected to the pan plate of the pan tilt mechanism and are free to slide relative to the cervical disks and base plate as the u joint chain flexes. The guide tubes are long enough so that they extend below the level of the base plate regardless of the motion of the u joint chain

The neck motion is generated by the coordinated intlation of the air muscles and release of air from them. McKibben type air muscles are well known in the art and detailed descriptions of their manufacture and function can be found in such references as Daerden Lefeber. In essence they comprise an elastic tube surrounded by a helically wound mesh in which the tube is typically sealed at one end and attached to a source of pressurized air at the other. The mesh is bound to the tube at each end such that their lengths are kept identical. As pressurized air is introduced into the air muscle the tube expands causing the diameter of the helical mesh to expand with it. As the mesh diameter increases the helix angle of the inextensible fibers within it decreases causing the overall length to decrease. When one end of the air muscle is fixed and the other attached to a load inflation of the muscle results in a force being exerted on the load in a direction towards and coaxial with the air muscle.

In the present embodiment the neck actuation is enabled by antagonistic pairs of air muscles with one pair generating forces in the flexion lateral right to extension lateral left direction and the other pair generating forces in the flexion lateral left to extension lateral right direction. As one muscle of the pair is inflated the other is either held at current pressure or air is released. If both are inflated this has the effect of stiffening the neck and any difference in pressure results in motion towards the air muscle at higher pressure. By controlling the pressure in all four air muscles any combination of motions in flexion extension and lateral flexion can be achieved.

Air muscles in general can achieve an engineering strain ratio of maximum change in length to original length of approximately 25 . For this reason the geometry of the air muscle guides and the length of the chain of u joints must be calculated such that the difference in length between for example the front left air muscle at full range extension and right lateral motion and the length of the same air muscle . full flexion and left lateral motion is no more than the 25 of the full extension right lateral air muscle length. In short the strain capability of the air muscle must be matched to the change in length imposed by the full range of motion of the neck.

Alternate actuators to air muscles can include variations in air muscle design the use of lead or ball screw mechanisms driving flexible cables or a pulley system driving cables looping from an attachment point on the pan plate down the neck under the base plate around a motor driven pulley and up the other side of the neck to reattach at the pan plate . This is by no means a comprehensive list of design solutions but is intended to indicate some of the possible variations.

In particular to generate neck flexion the front two air muscles are pressurized and air is exhausted from the back two air muscles or the pressure therein is reduced with respect to the pressure in the front pair.

At the top of the neck section is the pan tile mechanism which generates the rotational and part of the flexion extension motion of the head. Pan motion rotation is achieved in this embodiment through the action of the pan motor with a gearhead if necessary to achieve the necessary torque driving a pan capstan around which is wound the pan cable . This cable passes over a series of pulleys as shown in and is anchored to the pan drive wheel using a cable stop and a cable tensioner . The pan drive wheel is rigidly fixed to the uppermost u joint . As the pan motor generates torque this is transmitted through the pan cable to act on the pan drive wheel . As the pan plate and tilt plate are mounted to the u joint with rotary bearings a torque equal to and opposite to that imposed on the pan drive wheel is imposed on the rest of the pan tile mechanism causing it to rotate about the u joints . Similarly tilt motion is achieve as torque from the tilt motor and possible gearhead is transmitted through the tilt cable to the tilt drive wheel and the tilt plate then tilts with respect to the tilt drive wheel .

Closed loop control of the pan and tilt motions is achieved through the use of encoders or similar sensors mounted on the motors and also from the pan potentiometer and tile potentiometer mounted between the tilt plate and uppermost end of the u joint and between the right side plate and the right tilt shaft which is fixed with respect to the pan plate . The potentiometers provide absolute position sensing of pan and tilt and are used to determine the initial position of the pan tile mechanism at simulator start up while the encoders are used by the electronic motor control system to provide noise free relative motion information after the control system is initialized with information from the potentiometers.

Closed loop control enables both control of the rotation and flexion extension motions but also enables control of the stiffness of those joints. For example if simple position control is employed increasing the control system gain which relates output torque of the motors to error between commanded and actual position will increase the stiffness of the neck system provided that friction in the joints and imposed by external soft tissue components and bandwidth of the control system are sufficient to prevent control system instability . Other control algorithms can also be employed to achieve the desired stiffness and motion performance.

In one embodiment of the spherical joint mechanism employed at each of the hip and shoulder locations see the joint comprises the ball assembly the socket assembly and the brake assembly . In operation the externally threaded brake assembly is rotated by a motor or other means and as a result of the threads presses the ball assembly against a mating surface in the socket assembly . With sufficient torque applied to the brake assembly the ball assembly is rendered resistant to motion which is the desired state when the ACS is in conscious mode. Applying a torque to the brake assembly in the opposite sense releases the ball assembly allowing the joint to move freely which is the desired state when the ACS is in unconscious mode.

The ball assembly is comprised of a spherical ball with a cylindrical member extending out from the center of the sphere. The cylindrical member and the spherical ball may optionally have a hole extending through their common axis see to allow the passage of tubes or cables or other elements such that those elements pass through the joint rather than needing to be channeled around the outside of the joint. The advantage of passing such elements through the joint is that additional cabling or tubing length is not required to allow the full range of motion of the joint and reduces the possibility of tangling.

The socket assembly is comprised of a hollow cylindrical body with an interior spherical seating surface at the outer end of the cylindrical body. The ball assembly rests in this seat with the cylindrical member extending out through the outer end. In the case where water resistance is a desirable feature in the ACS as in the preferred embodiment an O ring seat and an O ring may be integrated into the spherical seating surface such that a seal is established between the socket assembly and the ball assembly . In addition to the spherical seating surface an additional O ring seat and O ring are incorporated adjacent to and proximal from the spherical seating surface. Proximal to that is an internally threaded section of the socket assembly . This thread is provided to mate with the brake assembly .

The brake assembly is a cylindrical element with a threaded outer surface to mate with the inner thread of the socket assembly and a spherical seat at its proximal end to mate with the ball assembly s proximal aspect. As with the ball assembly the brake assembly may have a hole extending through it to permit cables wires or other elements passing through the ball assembly to enter the torso of the ACS. To the inner face of the brake assembly is mounted a ring gear with internal teeth. A pinion gear driven by a motor causes the brake assembly to either move distally squeezing the ball assembly against the seat of the socket assembly or proximally releasing the braking force.

In the shoulder joint the motor is mounted in a housing that forms part of the scapular element . In the hip joint the motor is mounted in the pelvic assembly which also incorporates the hip joint socket assembly . The use of a threaded connection between the brake assembly and the socket assembly results in a non back drivable braking system such that power is only supplied to the motor during the transition between states. At all other times the joint maintains its own state due to friction. This minimizes the power requirements for the joint.

Alternate embodiments to accomplish the functions of the shoulder and hip joints described above can include a thread less brake assembly driven by a pneumatic cylinder a solenoid or other linear actuator a system making use of a wedge that contacts an inner surface of the brake assembly that pushes it against the ball assembly as in a photographic tripod bogen head or other systems that may be conceived by one skilled in the art. Similarly alternate rotary actuators can be employed to replace the motor described in the preferred embodiment.

Each set of rechargeable cells is an arrangement of seven cells electrically in series providing a nominal output voltage of 23.1V rated at 2.3 Ah. Flat conductors are welded between successive cells to provide the electrical connection. Two sets of cells are stacked vertically separated by an insulating structure mid pack insert . Each set is connected via 18 gage or similar wire to a water resistant connector one at each end of the battery pack .

Structural rigidity is provided by the arrangement of the aluminum base plate insulating plastic base insert a set of aluminum spacer rods the mid pack insert an additional set of aluminum spacer rods a connector holder and finally the insulating top insert and aluminum top plate . The battery pack components are held together with machine screws. The water resistant connectors are held in place through the use of an epoxy adhesive or similar potting bonding material and the entire battery pack is coated in a continuous layer of waterproof plastic or rubber material with the exception of the contact points within the connector .

Alternate embodiments of the power system include the use of single sets of rechargeable cells rather than the dual set described above the use of a rigid waterproof shell e.g. an injection molded part rather than the system of separate structural and insulating members described and other variations which may be found in similar replaceable power systems that exist in the prior art.

The battery packs will be held within the simulator by a hinged panel in the back of the simulator which similarly restrains the blood simulant containers . shows a preferred embodiment of a recharging system for the simulator s battery packs . This embodiment supports the charging of four battery packs simultaneously. One skilled in the art can easily conceive of variations to support the charging of more or fewer battery packs simultaneously.

It includes a water resistant housing of a type similar to commercial Pelican cases with the commercial foam insert in the lid of the case. In the body of the housing is a thermoformed panel which includes mating features to provide positive alignment for the battery packs and water resistant connectors at appropriate locations to mate with the connectors on the battery packs.

Adjacent to the sockets and mating features for the battery packs is an indicator panel which covers the charging circuitry and includes indicator lights which show which battery packs are being charged and approximate charge level for charging packs. In addition the panel includes a main power switch and power supply cables and storage space for said cables. The power supply cables include at least plugs to c01mect to 11OVAC power sources and may include additional cables and connectors to connect to 12VDC or 24VDC vehicular power supplies.

The charging circuitry includes safety systems that include current limiting controls to avoid drawing excessive current from the power supply internal cooling fans temperature sensors to detect excessive internal temperatures and reduce charging current or shut down the charging system as necessary .

The panel includes an interlock switch which disables charging when the lid is closed to prevent overheating.

The panel further includes ventilation ports which are shielded to prevent water from splashing into the circuitry.

The panel further includes latches to retain each battery pack and a spring loaded ejection system to enable easy removal of the battery packs from the recharging system .

It is understood that a wide variety of modifications and substitutions can be made without departing from the present invention. In addition while the invention is primarily shown and described in conjunction with a human mannequin other embodiments are contemplated in which other animal forms are used for veterinary training for example. Nominal form factors can be provided for horses dogs and other animals and pets.

While the invention is shown and described in conjunction with a particular embodiment having an illustrative architecture having certain components in a given order it is understood that other embodiments well within the scope of the invention are contemplated having more and fewer components having different types of components and being coupled in various arrangements. Such embodiments will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. All documents cited herein are incorporated herein by reference.

