---

title: Systems and methods for monitoring a headcount
abstract: The disclosure relates to systems and methods for monitoring a headcount with RFID. Such a system can include a plurality or transponders, each transponder of the plurality of transponders associated with an offender. The system can include a plurality of radio frequency identification readers configured to transmit an interrogating signal to one or more transponders of the plurality of transponders and receive an identifying signal in response to the one or more transponders receiving the interrogating signal, the plurality of radio frequency identification readers associated with at least one programmable event, the at least one programmable event including a headcount. The system can include a server configured to receive data from the plurality of radio frequency identification readers through a network and determine if there is a discrepancy in the headcount.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396447&OS=09396447&RS=09396447
owner: Codex Corporation
number: 09396447
owner_city: Maple Grove
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Officers at secure facilities face many challenges in monitoring the whereabouts of inmates. Such monitoring can include visual inspection and verification on a strict schedule. Such monitoring can also require the Officers to determine if the proper number of inmates is present on the facility premises at a given time.

Various embodiments illustrated and described herein provide solutions to efficiently and accurately document information about offenders e.g. inmates . These and other embodiments are described with reference to the figures herein.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The disclosure presents methods and apparatuses for automating offender documentation using one or more Radio Frequency Identification RFID readers. The RFID reader can scan for a transponder associated either directly or indirectly with an offender. The scanning can cause information associated with the item associated with the transponder to appear on a display coupled to the RFID reader. The user scanning the transponder can view add or alter the information that is displayed when the transponder is scanned. The RFID reader can send the data collected from the scan to a web service or middleware for analysis. Alternatively the RFID reader can do at least a portion of the analysis itself. The information that is entered can be saved to remote or local databases. In this way managing information about an offender or an item associated with the offender can be automatically maintained and updated. Such a system can be advantageous when implemented in a detention center incarceration facility mental health facility or any other place where information about people can be automatically tracked and managed.

Secure facility agencies face logistical communication and records management challenges when managing offenders e.g. incarcerated persons . This includes processing providing care and collecting a wide range of information about each of the offenders. Various embodiments illustrated and described herein include systems methods and software to assist in such situations. For example typical embodiments assist in rapid recording and monitoring a wide range of data about offenders including position of the offender at a given scan time and direction the offender was traveling at a given scan time. One or more embodiments may do so in a user friendly and efficient manner via a networked computing environment.

Custodians of persons in a facility manage many responsibilities including a significant amount of documentation in order to capture data pertinent to each person they are responsible for. Custodians e.g. secure facility officers may face challenges in managing persons in their facilities such as tracking their location or making sure that all such persons are present in their facility. To help mitigate risks some embodiments herein include systems methods and software that provide automated inmate headcounts with RFID. The automated inmate headcounts can include monitoring for the presence or absence of a number of offenders and verifying that the monitoring results are consistent with expected results.

These and other advantages can be realized using one or more embodiments disclosed herein. The systems methods and software are now described in more detail with reference to the drawings.

The RFID readers A F can be mobile e.g. handheld or fixed in the area in which they are deployed. An example of a fixed RFID reader includes a portal based RFID reader that forces an offender to walk through a portal within range of the RIFD reader . In the example shown in RFID readers A D and F are fixed while RFID reader E is mobile. The RFID readers A F can be assigned a name e.g. a collection of characters letters numbers or other symbols to uniquely identify the RFID reader . The RFID readers A F can each be assigned to a specific location. The RFID reader s location can be configured such that the RFID readers A F in aggregate can monitor a substantial portion of the area in which they are deployed for the presence of a transponder A D. In one or more embodiments the RFID readers A F can be configured to detect a transponder located within a specific range of the RFID reader A F. In such embodiments the RFID reader can send an interrogating signal to a transponder and receive an identifying signal in response to the transponder receiving the interrogating signal. The identifying signal can include a unique identifier corresponding to that transponder . The RFID reader can be internal or external to a building on the premises in which the system is deployed. For example RFID readers A D can be internal to a detention center building RFID reader E can be either internal or external to the detention center building and RFID reader F can be external to the detention center building such as in a courtyard or a recreation area.

The RFID readers A F can each be assigned to a specific customer e.g. an entity interested in using an automated offender documentation system . Such an assignment can help a data center manage information received from the RFID reader . The RFID readers A F can be connected to a server or a network see through a wired or wireless connection indicated by a lightning bolt in . A wired connection can include an Ethernet connection or other protocol operable to connect the RFID readers A F to the server or network. A wireless connection can include Wi Fi Bluetooth Zigbee or other protocol operable to wirelessly connect the RFID readers A F to the server or network .

An RFID reader A F can be associated with one or more programmable events . A programmable event can include an offender head count location verification or other event. For example the RFID readers A F can be programmed to perform a scan at a particular time. The results of the scan can be sent to the server . The results retrieved can be compared to a list of expected results. If the comparison shows an irregularity or a deviation from what is expected a warning or alert can be sent to the proper personnel e.g. one or more custodians responsible for managing the person associated with deviation . The proper personnel can then respond to the situation. In the case of a detention center a warning can be sent to a detention facility officer in charge of the offender corresponding to the deviation. The system can enable one or more RFID readers to perform one or more pre programmed programmable events such as simultaneously or on a scheduled or non scheduled basis. The programmable events can enable the RFID readers and the system to be flexible in implementing or at least partially automating a wide range of offender documentation services. The programmable events can allow an RFID reader to help perform multiple tasks simultaneously.

One or more user defined monitoring rules can be assigned to a programmable event . User defined monitoring rules can include offender movement restrictions e.g. offender A is not to be outside his cell at a certain time or offender relation restrictions e.g. offenders A and B are not to be within a certain distance of each other . The monitoring rules can include an offender s housing assignment or times that an offender is to be in there cell. Other user defined monitoring rules can include ensuring one or more inmates arrive to a pre defined destination within a predefined amount of time validating that inmates assigned to a housing unit are present e.g. conducting a head count or notifying system users that an RFID reader detected a transponder when no transponder detection was expected or allowed.

User defined processes can be assigned to a programmable event . User defined processes can include for example that a web service can search for a predefined restriction e.g. a monitoring rule that might preclude an inmate from being able to enter a certain room or area or that two or more inmates are not allowed to associate with each other e.g. be within the same room or area of the facility . The user defined processes can validate that a direction an inmate was detected walking is acceptable. This can be accomplished using radar. The user defined processes can include a user causing an RFID reader to scan for a transponder in a specific location e.g. a multi purpose room such as a rec room .

A programmable event can be associated with more than one RFID reader . For example in the example of doing a head count in a secure facility a programmable event can trigger RFID readers A D to determine the number of offenders in their cell housing unit or some other location such as an infirmary or recreation yard. Associating a programmable event with an RFID reader can be done automatically such as by a computer processor or can be done manually by a user through an application configured to manage the configuration and implementation of an offender documentation system. The server A or B can instruct or poll the RFID readers A F for collected data or the RFID readers A F can be programmed to send the collected data to the server A B or the service . The data can be sent as soon as the data is collected on a pre determined schedule or a combination thereof.

One or more of the RFID readers A F can be configured to constantly or intermittently monitor for a nearby transponder e.g. a passing transponder or a transponder that has moved within range of the RFID reader . Such RFID readers can be helpful in monitoring areas where transponders are not expected to be or in monitoring transit points to monitor the progress of offenders in transit. When one of these RFID readers detects the presence of a transponder an alarm or message can be sent to the proper personnel such as through the server or the network . The message or alert can be a text message or other content message to a mobile device an email e.g. including an attachment or other notification.

The data sent from the RFID readers A F to the server can be encrypted. The data from the RFID reader can be sent to a server that is running middleware e.g. software that provides services to a software application beyond those available from an operating system or an application that logically and physically runs between a sender and a receiver .

In one or more embodiments rather than using middleware or calling one or more services e.g. services provided over the internet or through the network with or without the internet the RFID reader can include one or more services which may be in the form of an application programming interface API database connectivity client or other logical element to perform the functions of the middleware or the service . An example of an RFID reader that can be used to perform the functions of the middleware or the service is the FX7400 RFID reader from Motorola Inc. of Schaumburg Ill.

The RFID reader E can include a screen configured to display information related to scanning a transponder . The RFID reader E can be configured to display such as on display a schedule to a user indicating when or where RFID reader E scans are to occur.

The radar module can be situated near an RFID reader F to detect a number of offenders passing thereby or to detect a direction an offender is travelling. The radar module can be incorporated into an RFID reader . Including the radar module in the system can help a system determine the number of offenders the direction each offender is travelling or the like of a transponder within range of the radar module . Such information can be relayed to the server . The information sent to the server can be accompanied by an identification of the transponder and a nearby RFID reader .

The RFID reader can include one or more radar modules electrically or mechanically coupled thereto. An example of such a radar module or people counter is the OBID i Scan from Feig Electronic of Germany. Such radar modules are operable to detect persons moving towards and going away from the radar module or the associated RFID reader . The direction can be determined by transmitting a signal monitoring for signal reflections and detecting how much time it takes for the reflection to be detected by the radar module .

The transponder can transmit a unique identifying signal that is recognizable by an RFID reader . In one or more embodiments the transponder can emit the identifying signal in response to a signal sent from the RFID reader . The transponder can be incorporated into a bracelet a chip configured to be embedded in clothing an implantable device an identification card or may take some other form that allows the transponder to travel with an offender e.g. inmate or an item of interest. The transponder can be assigned to an individual offender or an entity at the secure facility other than an offender such as a detention center officer . In a system that includes a transponder associated with an entity at the secure facility the system can detect when the entity e.g. detention center officer is near an offender .

The server can be configured to run a web application or middleware configured to implement or manage automatic offender documentation. The server can receive data from the RFID readers A F. The data received can include a unique identification ID key that identifies the RFID reader A F that sent the data. The server can look up the RFID reader ID and correlate a specific time or location with the RFID reader A F. The server can send the time location and RFID ID data to another server B such as at a data center .

The server can be part of a Local Area Network LAN or it can be hosted remotely. The middleware that can be accessible through the server can either be hosted locally e.g. through a LAN or remotely. The middleware can send data received or modified by the server or middleware to a service .

While the server B service and the database are depicted as individual units they may be implemented on one or more servers. For example the server B service and database may all be implemented on the same server or each may be implemented on its own server.

The web application can render web pages that can provide the functionality of the service to a user. The web application can be hosted locally such as on server A or remotely such as on server B.

The networked system can include the system coupled to the data center such as through a network e.g. the internet . Such a configuration can allow the data storage for and analysis of monitoring RFID reader and transponder interactions to be off site. The data center can include a firewall B coupled to a server B and a service such that the firewall B can help to ensure that the data sent to the server B and the service will not harm the server B or service . The server B can be coupled to a database such that the database can provide data to the server and receive data from the server B. The server B can be coupled to the service such that the service can provide functionality related to automated offender documentation to the server B. The data received at the server B can be used in rendering web pages to users. The database can be coupled to the service to provide data to the service and to receive and store the results of operations performed by the service .

The firewalls A B can scan incoming and outgoing data for malware to help reduce the chances of a malicious attack on the system . The firewall A can encrypt data that is outgoing or decrypt data that is incoming. The encryption or decryption can be accomplished using a separate encryption or decryption module and can be incorporated at different places in the system such as on an RFID reader so as to allow encrypted data sent to be sent to the server B.

The service can be deployed locally on the server B or hosted remotely. The service can retrieve programmable events currently assigned to an RFID reader . The programmable events can be stored in the database on the server A B or on the service . The service can run processes associated with a programmable event . For example the service can analyze organize or format collected data. The analyzed organized or collected data can be sent to the database for retention. The analysis can include comparing the data to monitoring rules associated with a programmable event . Such comparisons can monitor compliance and detect violations of the monitoring rules and an alarm alert or message can be sent to the proper personnel when a monitoring rule has been violated.

The service can correlate collected data. A correlation of data can help the service detect a violation of a monitoring rule . A correlation can be performed at an individual offender level a block level an entire building e.g. secure facility such as a detention center mental health facility or the like level or other level. For example the service can correlate all data associated with the same offender or a cellblock and compare that data to the monitoring rules relating to the offender or the cellblock to determine if the offenders comply with the monitoring rule or a violation has occurred. The service can compare one offender s data to another offender s data to determine if a monitoring rule violation has occurred. Such comparisons can be useful when a monitoring rule states that two or more offenders are to be kept separately not contact each other or otherwise not associate with each other. The service can be hosted locally as shown or can be hosted on the network e.g. cloud .

The service can receive and process data from the middleware . The processing can include authenticating a customer name. Authenticating a customer name can be done by verifying a customer s port number in examples where a customer has been assigned a unique port number. Authenticating can also include verifying RFID reader A F ID information and transponder A D ID information received is consistent and assigned to that customer. A user e.g. an end user can automate the running of programmable events through scheduling them through the service . A user can manually trigger a programmable event to for the service to execute. The user can customize the operations performed by the service in running a programmable event such as through the server A B or web application. The service can compare data received to monitoring rules and determine if a monitoring has been violated. The service can initiate an alert process in response to determining that a rule has been violated.

The database can store monitoring rules therein. The monitoring rules can define the relationship between or validate the performance expectations between a programmable event and a transponder . This can include cross referencing other monitoring rules e.g. restrictions or requirements associated with a given transponder . For example an offender could be restricted from moving or from entering a specific room or area of a building. The rule or restriction could be for punitive reasons health concerns safety concerns or the like. For example a monitoring rule can indicate that one or more inmates are to be kept separate at all times. The monitoring rule can have an associated duration in which the monitoring is valid and is to be referenced by the service . One or more monitoring rules can be associated with a specific offender such that when the offender is no longer in the building the monitoring rule is no longer referenced by the service .

The service can analyze the data received from the RFID readers A F and compare the received data to relevant monitoring rules to determine if an alert or message should be sent to the relevant personnel. If no violation is detected the service can initiate a sequence of operations e.g. a pre programmed sequence of operations processes or events to complete. For example the service can look for a violation of a user defined process rule e.g. an inmate is travelling the wrong direction or there are too many inmates in a specific area . The service can then search for violations of monitoring rules e.g. a first inmate cannot be in a specific area because a second inmate is already present in the area an inmate is not allowed to be in the rec area or other monitoring rule violation . The service can then continue to perform another process e.g. a user defined process such as documenting the locations of inmates that are within the range of an RFID reader . Future data received can be analyzed e.g. compared to monitoring rules in real time to determine if an alert or message is to be sent. When the analysis is complete the service can record that the analysis was completed in the database .

In the case of an Internet failure e.g. the Internet is temporarily unavailable the middleware can be configured to store received data in a local memory. When Internet connectivity is restored the received data can be sent to the service . Such a configuration can be helpful in embodiments that include Software as a Service SaaS or a remotely hosted server. The middleware can be configured to determine if a monitoring rule has been violated such as when the Internet connection to the service has failed. In one or more embodiments the middleware includes a subset of all the monitoring rules for a specific system. These monitoring rules can be the most important rules e.g. the rules that the user does not want violated . In one or more embodiments the service can determine if a monitoring rule has been violated after it has received the relevant data.

The middleware can reside on the server A or B locally or remotely respectively. In one or more embodiments the middleware can be hosted in a network e.g. cloud server. Such an implementation can provide automated offender documentation to a user through a Software as a Service SaaS configuration. The middleware can provide communication between the RFID readers A F and the data center . The middleware can be configured to encrypt data it receives from the RFID readers A F and send the encrypted data to the service server B or the database .

The database can store data from the RFID readers A B the service the web application or the server A B.

A user can create one or more monitoring rules associated with a scheduled or a non scheduled headcount. A headcount e.g. scheduled or non scheduled headcount can be performed using RFID readers and transponders at various locations. For example a headcount can be performed at a housing unit pod cellblock living unit infirmary program room recreation area dining area entire premises portion of a premises a combination thereof or the like. A single headcount can be configured to determine how many transponders are in one or more specified locations or whom the transponders correspond to.

A user can define how many headcounts to perform where to perform them and who will receive an alert or message if the headcount process reveals a discrepancy e.g. an inconsistency in the transponders detected in the location and the transponders expected to be present in the location .

A timer can be configured to determine the amount of time it takes to complete a specific headcount. The timer can measure the amount of time it takes to complete a headcount such as a headcount to determine if all offenders are present or accounted for in a specified location.

A headcount can be a programmable event and can be associated with one or more specific RFID readers . The RFID readers can be in or near e.g. within range of a location e.g. recreation area cellblock lunch hall or the like associated with the headcount. In response to a headcount activation e.g. automatic or manual activation the RFID readers associated with the programmable event defining the headcount can identify the transponders within range of those RFID readers . The server A e.g. middleware service an RFID reader with computing capability or a device with a corresponding mobile application can determine e.g. in real time if the data retrieved is as expected. Determining that the data is as expected can include comparing a detected plurality of transponder unique identifiers to an expected set of transponder unique identifiers to be received in the headcount. The comparison can be on a unique identifier level or on an overall number of transponder level. For example a comparison can be done that compares a list of detected transponders e.g. unique identifiers of the respective transponders to a list of transponders or the comparison can be done by determining the number of transponders detected and comparing to an expected number of transponders to be detected. If the numbers or the unique identifiers do not match a discrepancy can be detected.

Detecting a discrepancy can include cross referencing data that indicates the absence of an offender . For example data in the database can indicate that a particular offender is currently in the infirmary. The service or other item in the system can determine that the headcount does not fail if that offender in the infirmary is missing from the headcount.

If the headcount does fail a message or alert can be sent to the proper personnel. The alert or message can identify the offender that was expected to be in the headcount but is missing. The message or alert can identify a location the missing offender was expected to be.

Headcounts can be initiated through a mobile application such as by activating a button on a user interface e.g. an activate headcount button on user interface of . The mobile application can be loaded onto a device e.g. a mobile communications device and can sync or download headcount data using a wired e.g. Ethernet or wireless e.g. Wi Fi connection. Such a mobile application can download the data while or after the data is collected by an RFID reader . A mobile RFID reader e.g. a device with a mobile RFID reader application executing thereon can scan a transponder . Such a mobile RFID reader can help in scanning a transponder of an offender who chooses to be non compliant in having their transponder automatically scanned for. In the case of a defective or damaged transponder an offender s information can be manually entered into the system such as to bring a headcount into conformance with expectations. Data that is manually entered into the system can be tagged as manually entered such as by an icon displayed next to the manual entry having the entry offset in a different color than usual or adding one or more characters to the entry.

The results of a headcount can be displayed to a user through a user interface of the web application or a mobile application. illustrates an example of a user interface e.g. a headcount dashboard interface . The user interface can include the number of transponders and associated offenders expected to be detected in the headcount and the number of offenders who were detected whether by RFID reader scan or manual entry. The user interface can include a list of offenders who were not present during the headcount because of a previously logged movement or offenders that would normally be included in the headcount that are currently at other locations.

A user can accept or confirm the results of a headcount by activating a confirm button in the user interface . A record of the user accepting or confirming the results of the headcount can be created in the database such as for reporting or communication purposes. The status of the headcount can be updated in the database or on the user interface such as in response to the user activating the confirm button . The timer can be stopped in response to the user activating the confirm button and the time it took to complete the headcount can be recorded in the database for statistical or other analytical purposes. If a user does not activate the confirm button within a specified period of time e.g. one minute five minutes ten minutes etc. the headcount programmable event can auto confirm the headcount results.

If there is a discrepancy in the headcount results a user can activate an alert button in the user interface . The application e.g. the web application or the mobile application can provide an alert to a user in response to the user activating the alert button . Such a configuration can allow a user to tag offenders who are not accounted for in the headcount and not logged as being elsewhere e.g. out of their cell at least temporarily.

The headcount alert can send e.g. automatically an email text message or other content message to a user. The headcount alert can automatically send a message or alert to a device hosting a mobile or web application. The alert or message can be sent to predefined recipients to notify them of the offender A that was not tagged in the headcount. A user e.g. the user who initiated the headcount can manually update the alert by adding information regarding the location of the offenders tagged in the alert. For example if a user failed to log an offender A movement such that the system did not have record of the movement a subsequent headcount can trigger an alert that the offender that moved is missing from the headcount. The user who failed to log the movement can record the movement e.g. manually in response to receiving or after the headcount is complete. The log can be created through a user activating the edit button and adding information to the system to make a record of the movement.

Similarly information regarding an offender who was identified in a headcount alert whose whereabouts is identified after the alert was sent can be updated by a user who has sufficient privileges and knows where the offender is. The updating can be accomplished through a user activating the edit button and indicating where the offender is located. The system can reevaluate a discrepancy in the headcount in light of the information entered by the user after activating the edit button . If the location of an offender is unknown before a headcount but is known after the headcount the system can be updated e.g. manually or automatically to include the location of the offender . Such updating can be done through a user interface see of a mobile or web application . When all offenders expected to be in the headcount are accounted for the system can indicate the headcount is complete or in conformance such as by showing a checkmark in a status column as shown in .

Such user interfaces can allow a user to view headcount activity throughout a facility e.g. in real time . The user interface can display a current date or time so a user can determine how much time there is before the next listed headcount occurs. The user interface can display the results of previously completed headcounts. In the example shown in headcounts 1 9 have occurred previously and headcounts 10 13 are scheduled to occur later. The user interface can display one or more locations associated with the listed headcount .

By looking at the user interface a user can determine which headcounts were successfully completed e.g. as indicated by indicators . The indicators can be clickable links. A user can click on the indicator to view details regarding the corresponding headcount. The details can include the time it took to perform the headcount which offenders were detected automatically or manually entered or other data regarding the headcount.

Computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the computer . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a non transitory computer readable medium. For example a computer program capable of providing a generic technique to perform access control check for data access and or for doing an operation on one of the servers in a component object model COM based system according to the teachings of the present invention may be included on a CD ROM and loaded from the CD ROM to a hard drive. The computer readable instructions allow computer to provide generic access controls in a COM based computer network system having multiple users and servers.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in some embodiments. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely embodiments. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flows are applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

Systems and methods of the present disclosure may be implemented on a mobile device as a mobile application web based application on a desktop computer as a computer application or a combination thereof. A mobile application may operate on a Smartphone tablet computer portable digital assistant PDA ruggedized mobile computer or other mobile device. The mobile device may be connected to the Internet or network via Wi Fi Wide Area Network WAN cellular connection WiMax or any other type of wired or wireless method of networking connection. In some embodiments a web based application may be delivered as a software as a service SaaS package e.g. cloud based embodiments accessible via a device app a web browser application or other suitable application depending on the particular embodiment.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In this document the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article composition formulation or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

