---

title: Remote time shift buffering with shadow tuning
abstract: A remote time shift buffer system with shadow tuning. The remote time shift buffer system includes a client in communication with a remote video recorder. The client tunes to a channel from a television signal source and sends the channel content to a television. When a channel change occurs at the client, the remote video recorder tunes to the same channel as the client and buffers the content. When a pause live television (PLTV) function is initiated, the remote video recorder generates an independent RTSB content stream using the buffered content. Once the RTSB content stream is available, the client switches inputs and displays the RTSB content stream from the remote video recorder. Manipulating the position within the RTSB content stream does not affect buffering of the live content. The remote time shift buffer system provides pause live television functionality with minimal loss of content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043822&OS=09043822&RS=09043822
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09043822
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
A local digital video recorder may be used as the tuner to select and watch content on a television or as pass through device that accepts content tuned using a client such as a set top box from a cable company or other source. Some digital video recorders automatically record the content stream being watched allowing pause live television functionality. Live in this context refers to the contemporaneous nature of the content stream not the content of the stream which may be pre recorded . To have pause live television functionality at multiple televisions each television must have a local digital video recorder connected between the source and the television. Often the buffering that enables the pause live television feature introduces a delay of several seconds into the content stream. This can result in a disconcerting effect when two nearby televisions are tuned to the same channel but only one has pause live television functionality because the content streams are out of sync.

More recently some clients can communicate with a remote digital video recorder over the viewer s local area network. The networked digital video recorder is able to record content from any television without having a digital video recorder dedicated to each television. While some networked digital video recorders offer pause live television functionality it is implemented on demand. When the viewer pauses the live television using their remote the client communicates with the networked digital video recorder. At that point the networked digital video recorder tunes into the channel being watched and starts recording. When the viewer resumes watching the program the content stream is supplied from the networked digital video recorder service starting at the pause point rather than the live television content stream.

Communicating switching channels and starting to record the content is not an instantaneous process. The actual pause point is later than the point when the viewer pressed the pause button. As a result when the program is resumed some content will be lost and cannot be revisited. It is not uncommon for a digital video recording service to have an actual pause point that occurs 15 seconds after the pause button is pressed. Such a long delay may be significant in the viewing experience. For example if a viewer watching a baseball game presses pause right before a pitch the actual pause point from where the content would resume might be from where the catcher is throwing the ball back to the pitcher. In other words the long delay effectively causes the pitch to be missed. At the very least this situation does not make for a positive viewer experience. It was with these problems in mind that the present invention was conceived.

Embodiments of the present invention may provide for a remote time shift buffer RTSB system with shadow tuning providing pause live television functionality. The remote time shift buffer system includes a client in communication with a remote video recorder. The client tunes to a channel in a signal from a television signal source and sends the content to a television. When a pause live television PLTV function is initiated the remote video recorder generates an independent RTSB content stream using the buffered content and publishes it for use by the client. Once the RTSB content stream is available the client switches inputs and displays the RTSB content stream from the remote video recorder. Manipulating e.g. pausing rewinding or forwarding the position within the RTSB content stream from the remote video recorder does not affect buffering of the live content. The remote time shift buffer system provides pause live television functionality with little to no loss of content.

The client receives a live television signal from a television signal source e.g. an over the air broadcast television network or a cable television provider and outputs the signal to a television. The client includes a controller a memory a control interface a network interface and at least one tuner. The controller is in communication with the tuner the network interface the control interface and the memory. The controller coordinates the operation of the client and executes client applications. The memory stores applications operating values and configurations for the client. The network interface connects the client to a network. Each tuner decodes the television signal corresponding to a selected television channel.

The remote video recorder includes a controller a network interface one or more tuners and a memory. The controller is in communication with the tuners the network interface and the memory. The controller coordinates the operation of the client and executes applications. The network interface connects the client to the network. Each tuner selectively receives a channel in a signal from a television signal source. The memory of the remote video recorder stores applications operating values configurations and digital video. A portion of the memory serves as a buffer for temporarily storing the live digital video content tuned using the client. Other portions of the memory are used for storing scheduled recordings. The remote video recorder may be embodied with one or more digital video recorders.

When the viewer input changes the channel and the client is displaying the live content from the television signal source the remote time shift buffer system starts tracking the time spent on the channel. If the viewer remains on the channel for a selected length of time the remote time shift buffer system attempts to buffer the live content. The amount of time before attempting to buffer the live content i.e. the shadowing delay is selected to avoid unnecessarily buffering content while the viewer is actively channel surfing i.e. undesired content . A longer shadowing delay reduces the likelihood of starting a time shift buffer before the viewer selects a channel but reduces how far back the viewer can rewind. Conversely a shorter delay begins buffering the content earlier but may result in more quickly aborted time shift buffer sessions.

The client sends a shadowing request to the remote video recorder. Upon receipt of the shadowing request the remote video recorder determines whether sufficient resources are available. If sufficient resources are available the remote video recorder tunes to same channel currently being viewed using the client and buffers the content to the memory. Even after the remote time shift buffer system successfully creates a buffer the client continues displaying the live content until the viewer actively initiates a pause live television PLTV function such pressing the pause button or the rewind button. At that point there a natural discontinuity in the viewing experience and the client sends an action request to the remote video recorder.

The remote time shift buffer system takes advantage of the natural discontinuity to switch from the live television signal to the RTSB content stream. The remote time shift buffer system creates a RTSB content stream from the buffered content. If the RTSB content stream creation is successful the remote video recorder notifies the client that the RTSB content stream is available. Next the remote video recorder attempts to apply the PLTV function i.e. pause rewind or forward the RTSB content stream based on the action request. After receiving notification that the RTSB content stream is available the client switches from the input receiving the live television signal to the RTSB content stream. As previously mentioned the natural discontinuity typically masks any discontinuity resulting from the source swap. At this point the viewer is watching the RTSB content stream from the remote video recorder. Because of client tuner shadowing the remote time shift buffer system is capable of pausing live television at or near the point where the viewer pressed the pause button with little or no loss of content.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

A remote time shift buffer system with shadow tuning is described herein and illustrated in the accompanying figures. The remote time shift buffer system includes a client in communication with a remote video recorder. The client tunes to a channel in a signal from a television signal source and sends the content to a television. When a pause live television PLTV function is initiated the remote video recorder generates an independent RTSB content stream using the buffered content and publishes it for use by the client. Once the RTSB content stream is available the client switches inputs and displays the RTSB content stream from the remote video recorder. Manipulating e.g. pausing rewinding or forwarding the position within the RTSB content stream from the remote video recorder does not affect buffering of the live television signal. The remote time shift buffer system provides PLTV functionality with little to no loss of content.

The client includes a controller a memory a control interface a network interface and a tuner . The controller is in communication with the tuner the network interface the control interface and the memory . The controller coordinates the operation of the client and executes client applications including but not limited to the remote time shift buffer application . The controller includes a camping timer used to monitor the length of time the client is tuned to a television channel. The count based on the timer is reset after each channel change. The control interface allow a viewer to operate the client e.g. change channels either locally i.e. at the client or remotely e.g. using a remote control . The memory stores applications operating values and configurations for the client including but not limited to the remote time shift buffer application . The network interface connects the client to the network . The tuner selectively receives a channel from a live television signal provided by a television signal source e.g. an over the air broadcast television network or a cable television provider and outputs the signal to a television e.g. via audio video output connectors . Examples of suitable clients include but are not limited to cable television receivers set top boxes and smart televisions either alone or in combination with a cable card.

The remote video recorder includes a controller a network interface one or more tuners and a memory . The controller is in communication with the tuners the network interface and the memory . The controller coordinates the operation of the remote video recorder and executes applications including but not limited to the remote time shift buffer application . The network interface connects the remote video recorder to the network . Each tuner selectively receives a channel in a signal from a television signal source . The memory of the remote video recorder stores applications operating values configurations and digital video including but not limited to the remote time shift buffer application . At least a portion of the memory serves as a live content buffer for temporarily storing the live television content tuned using the client and to provide a buffered content stream used when playing back the contents of the live content buffer. Other portions of the memory may be used for storing scheduled recordings.

As a practical matter many currently available digital video recorders include multiple tuners and are capable of simultaneously recording content using multiple tuners. The remote time shift buffer system is operable provided that one unused secondary tuner is available. The availability of multiple tuners in the remote video recorder is not a requirement of the remote time shift buffer system. The inclusion of multiple tuners in the remote video recorder increases the likelihood that an unused tuner will available for use by the remote time shift buffer application. In some embodiments the remote time shift buffer system is provided with a tuner and video storage memory dedicated to PLTV functionality and not available for scheduled recording functionality.

The remote video recorder may be embodied with one or more digital video recorders. Suitable digital video recorders for use in the remote video recorder include local digital video recorders and network digital video recorders. In some embodiments the remote video recorder includes a single network digital video recorder. In other embodiments the remote video recorder includes multiple network digital video recorders.

In still other embodiments the remote video recorder is a decentralized pool of digital video recorders. The client broadcasts the shadowing request to the members of the pool. Members of the pool capable of satisfying the request respond to the client. In some embodiment the responding members of the pool are temporarily unavailable to handle requests from other clients unless released. The client then negotiates with one of the pool members who responded to actually set up the tuner shadowing and remote time shift buffer. In some embodiments the client contemporaneously declines the responses from the other responding pool members. In some embodiments responding pool members not contacted by the client within a selected length of time become available to other clients once again.

In still other embodiments the remote video recorder includes a front end server that manages one or more digital video recorders as group. The front end server appears as a single digital video recorder eliminating the need to configure the client for each individual digital video recorder. When a request is received from a client the front controller allocates available resources e.g. tuners and memory from the attached group of digital video recorders to fulfill the request on behalf of the client. The front end server may be part of a digital video recorder or a separate component. Local digital video recorders may be used with the front end server because the front end server handles external communications with the client and repackages retransmits encodes and or performs any other necessary or desirable processing on the data from the local digital video recorder.

In still other embodiments the remote video recorder includes remote tuners and or memory provided as part of a digital video recording service. Such digital video recording services may be offered by cable companies and use remote banks of tuners and associated memory maintained by the provider to record content on demand by customers. The number of tuners and amount of storage allocated to each customer is determined by the level of service purchased by the customer.

Next the client receives control inputs from the viewer. For some control inputs the response of the remote time shift buffer system depends on the input source currently being output by the client. When the viewer input changes the channel the remote time shift buffer system starts tracking the time spent on the channel i.e. camping time . If the client is displaying the live content from the television signal source and remains on the channel for a selected length of time the remote time shift buffer system attempts to buffer the live content.

The amount of time before attempting to buffer the live content i.e. the shadowing delay is selected to avoid unnecessarily buffering content while the viewer is actively channel surfing i.e. undesired content . The shadowing delay is directly related to the start time of the time shift buffer. A longer shadowing delay reduces the likelihood of starting a time shift buffer before the viewer selects a channel but reduces how far back the viewer can rewind. Conversely a shorter delay begins buffering the content earlier but may result in more quickly aborted time shift buffer sessions. For example a suitable shadowing delay may be adjustable in range from about 1 second to about 30 seconds with a typical shadowing delay being about 10 seconds. Shadowing delays longer than 30 seconds are possible but may be longer than necessary to avoiding shadowing while the viewer is channel surfing while unnecessarily limiting how soon the content can be paused or how far back the content can be rewound.

The remote time shift buffer system optionally determines whether all pre requisites are met . Examples of pre requisite checks performed by the remote time shift buffer system include but are not limited to verification the client is paired with a remote video recorder verification the paired remote video recorder is available i.e. online and verification remote time shift buffering is activated on the client. If all pre requisites are not satisfied the remote time shift buffer system returns to processing viewer inputs. If all pre requisites are satisfied or no pre requisite check is required the client sends a shadowing request to the remote video recorder . In some embodiments the shadowing request specifies the current channel tuned by the client. In other embodiments the channel information is provided to the remote video recorder in a subsequent message.

Upon receipt of the shadowing request the remote video recorder determines whether sufficient resources are available. In some embodiments the remote video recorder checks for an available tuner . In various embodiments the remote video recorder also checks for sufficient memory to buffer a minimum amount of live content . If the resources are not available to the remote video recorder the response of the remote time shift buffer system varies depending upon the embodiment. In some embodiments live buffering silently fails when the resources are not available. In other embodiments live buffering fails and the remote time shift buffer system notifies the viewer of the failure. In still other embodiments the remote time shift buffer system provides the viewer with information about the activity of the tuners and or previously recorded content occupying the memory and offers the viewer an option to select a tuner and or delete previously recorded content to free up memory for use by the remote time shift buffer system or to forego the remote time shift buffer.

If sufficient resources are available or freed up by viewer selection the remote video recorder tunes to the same channel currently being viewed using the client . In other words the recorder shadows the tuner usage of the client. After shadowing the client tuner the remote video recorder buffers the content to the video storage memory for later use . In some embodiments the remote video recorder sends a message informing the client whether or not the live content is being buffered. In some embodiments the recorder sends the response before shadowing the client tuner. In some embodiments the recorder sends the response after successfully shadowing the client tuner but before starting to buffer the content. In other embodiments the recorder sends the response after successfully starting to buffer the content.

Returning to the viewer input activity when the viewer input changes the channel and the client is displaying the buffered content from the remote video recorder the client sends a buffer termination request to the remote video recorder and starts tracking the time spent on the channel. Upon receipt of the buffer termination request the remote video recorder stops buffering the content discards the buffer content and releases the tuner. After terminating the existing buffer the remote time shift buffer system continues normal operation switches to the live television content and starts the process to create a new live content buffer if the viewer remains on a channel for the selected length of time.

Even after the remote time shift buffer system successfully creates a buffer the client continues using the local tuner until the viewer activates selected features of the remote time shift buffer system such as pressing the pause button or the rewind button. At that point there is a natural discontinuity in the viewing experience. The remote time shift buffer system takes advantage of the natural discontinuity to switch from the live television signal to the RTSB content stream.

If the viewer input is something other than a channel change the client is displaying the live content from the television signal source and the remote video recorder is actively buffering the live content the remote time shift buffer system attempts to perform a content swap. The content swap is begun when the client sends an action request to the remote video recorder.

In some embodiments the remote time shift buffer system determines whether sufficient bandwidth is available to stream the content buffered by the remote video recorder. If sufficient bandwidth is not available there is no need to allocate resources to stream the buffered content. In some embodiments the remote time shift buffer system silently terminates the buffer operation due to insufficient bandwidth. In some embodiments the remote time shift buffer system terminates the buffer operation due to insufficient bandwidth and notifies the viewer of the termination. In other embodiments the remote time shift buffer system retains the buffer and notifies the viewer that insufficient bandwidth is available to use the functionality of remote time shift buffer. In still other embodiments the remote time shift buffer system provides the viewer with information about bandwidth usage and offers the viewer an option to terminate a selected bandwidth usage to enable viewing of the buffered content.

If sufficient bandwidth is available or released the remote time shift buffer system creates a RTSB content stream from the buffered content synchronized with the live television content. If the RTSB content stream creation is successful the remote video recorder notifies the client that the RTSB content stream is available . Next the remote video recorder attempts to adjust playback of the RTSB content stream based on the PLTV function specified in the action request . For example the remote video recorder pauses rewinds or moves forward through the RTSB content stream relative.

Some embodiments allow the viewer to return to the live point for example by pressing the stop button or the live button. In various embodiments returning to the live point simply moves to the end of the RTSB content stream so the buffered content is contemporaneous with the live content. In other embodiments returning to the live point causes the client to switch back to the live content from the television signal source and optionally terminates the buffer. For example pressing the stop button may return the viewer to the live point and terminate the buffer while pressing the live button only returns the viewer to the live point. It should be appreciated that some action requests will have no effect in some situations. For example a forward action cannot move the position of the buffered content past the current position of the live content.

Some embodiments allow the viewer to save the remote time shift buffer for example by pressing the record button. This elevates the remote time shift buffer to a non temporary status. The remote time shift buffer continues storing the live television content while the client remains tuned to the same channel and there is available memory in the remote video recorder. The elevated remote time shift buffer is retained e.g. until deleted by a viewer despite events that would normally result in termination of the remote time shift buffer e.g. changing channels or starting a scheduled recording .

After receiving notification that the RTSB content stream is available the client acquires the RTSB content stream . Once acquired the client sends the RTSB content stream to the television instead of the live television content . As previously mentioned the natural discontinuity typically masks any discontinuity resulting from the source swap. At this point the viewer is watching the RTSB content stream from the remote video recorder. In various embodiments the manipulation of the RTSB content stream occurs after the switch. In other embodiments the manipulation of the RTSB content stream occurs prior to the switch.

If the viewer input is something other than a channel change and the client is displaying the live content from the television signal source the remote time shift buffer system skips the shadowing delay sequence and immediately attempts to buffer the content as described above. In such situations there will typically be a noticeable delay before the selected PLTV function occurs due to the time needed to request allocate and activate the shadow tuner and remote time shift buffer. In various embodiments the live content is hidden from the viewer while the remote time shift buffer system attempts to initiate the selected PLTV function the remote time shift buffer. In some embodiments the content is hidden by blanking the screen or otherwise temporarily suppressing the output of the live content until the PLTV action is completed. In other embodiments the remote time shift buffer system displays a graphic or animation that covers or hides the live content until the PLTV action is completed. In some embodiments the graphic or animation displays a message informing the viewer that it is attempting to initiate the selected PLTV function when the viewer attempts to use PLTV functionality and the remote time shift buffer is not active. The message provides reassurance that the remote time shift buffer system is working to perform the selected PLTV function and discourages the viewer from repeatedly trying to invoke selected PLTV function.

In various embodiments the remote time shift buffer system notifies the viewer when the live television buffer is active and there are no available tuners to handle a scheduled recording that is about to begin. When the live television buffer is active and there are no available tuners to handle a scheduled recording that is about to begin some embodiments silently terminate the remote time shift buffer to release the tuner for the scheduled recording. Other embodiments terminate the remote time shift buffer to release the tuner for the scheduled recording and notify the viewer of the termination. In still other embodiments the remote time shift buffer system provides the viewer with information about the activity of the tuners and offers the viewer an option to forego the previously scheduled recording or terminate the remote time shift buffer.

Various embodiments of the remote time shift buffer system respond differently when the remote video recorder cannot accommodate the remote time shift buffer request due to insufficient resources e.g. the lack of an available tuner or sufficient memory . After receiving a message that the attempt was unsuccessful some embodiments do not make further attempt to initiate buffering of the live content again until the viewer changes channels or initiates a PLTV function. In other embodiments the client periodically resends the shadowing request until the remote video recorder successfully shadows the client tuner and buffers the live content. In still other embodiments the remote video recorder periodically checks resource availability after receiving a shadowing request that cannot be fulfilled and notifies the client when the request is fulfilled.

In various embodiments the remote time shift buffer system is also integrated into the startup and shutdown processes of the client . In some embodiments the normal shutdown process of the client includes sending a buffer termination request to the remote video recorder to release the resources no longer need by the remote time shift buffer system. Some embodiments of the remote time shift buffer system start tracking the camping time following startup of the client and attempt to buffer the live content if the threshold camping time is reached. This provides automatic live content buffering in situations where the client is turned on i.e. powers up and no additional viewer input is received. For example the viewer may simply begin watching whatever is on the starting channel used by the client upon startup e.g. a default channel or the last tuned channel .

In various embodiments the remote time shift buffer system includes fault tolerance functionality. An example of a fault is the situation where the remote video recorder receives a shadowing request from a client while the remote video recorder is already buffering content for that same client. Examples of such situations include but are not limited to a software crash or a power loss that results in an unexpected reboot or shutdown bypassing the normal shutdown process. The remote video recorder buffering the live content will not be aware that the client has suffered a fault and will continue to buffer the live content because no termination request was received. After rebooting or being turned back on the client sends a shadowing request to the remote video recorder. If the remote video recorder were to simply process the shadowing request and had available resources duplicate buffers for the same client would be active.

To provide fault tolerance some embodiments of the remote time shift buffer system compare a client identifier in the shadowing request to the client identifier associated with each live content buffer being handled by the remote video recorder. If an active live content buffer has the same client identifier as the shadowing request the remote video recorder compares the details of the shadowing request to the details of that live content buffer. If that live content buffer is already capturing the content from the channel identified in the shadowing request the remote video recorder associates that existing live content buffer with the new shadowing request. By maintaining the existing live content buffer the viewer has the capability to review the live content missed during the fault.

If the existing live content buffer associated with the client is capturing content from a different channel than the channel identified in the shadowing request the remote time shift buffer system terminates the existing live content buffer and creates a new live content buffer. In various embodiments the live content buffer replacement sequence defaults to first terminating the existing live content buffer and then creating the new live content buffer without regard to resource availability or other considerations. In other embodiments the remote video recorder prioritizes the operations of the live content buffer replacement sequence. In some embodiments the operations of the live content buffer replacement sequence are prioritized based on the availability of resources. If sufficient resources are available the remote video recorder creates the new live content buffer first to maximize the live content captured. Once the new live content buffer is established the remote video recorder then terminates the existing live content buffer. If sufficient resources are not available the remote video recorder first terminates the existing live content buffer to free up those resources before creating the new live content buffer.

In still other embodiments the prioritization of the operations of the live content buffer replacement sequence is broken down to the tuner shadowing and live content buffer creation operations. For example the remote video recorder may have adequate storage space for the new live content buffer but not have a tuner available. In this case the remote video recorder first reallocates the tuner used by the existing live content buffer to the new live content buffer and shadows the channel currently tuned by the client using the reallocated tuner. Next the remote video recorder begins storing the live content tuned using the reallocated tuner in a new live content buffer. Finally once the new live content buffer is operational the remote video recorder discards the existing live content buffer.

Because of client tuner shadowing the remote time shift buffer system is capable of pausing live television at or near the point where the viewer pressed the pause button with little or no loss of content. Some embodiments of the remote time shift buffer system back up a selected number of frames or a selected length of time in the RTSB content stream when pausing to account for the processing time involved. In other embodiments the remote time shift buffer system measures the time from when the pause button is pressed until the display stream is paused. Accounting for processing time is useful but not necessary as the response time of the remote time shift buffer system approaches real time and the buffer allows the viewer to rewind to a spot before the pause point. Most content streams do not have a frame indexing system that allows identification of the exact frame. Indexing is typically intended for the viewer and done using time measured in seconds. Conventional broadcast video content typically has frame rates of approximately 24 frames per second or more locating an exact frame using time is a complex and inexact process. Despite the lack of precision indexing processing time accounting typically allows the remote time shift buffer system to get close enough for a satisfactory viewer experience.

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end the remote video recorder and a client side customer via the client functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set. As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the client . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the client . As illustrated in the client and the remote video recorder are multipurpose computing devices having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a smart phone a personal computer e.g. a laptop or desktop a tablet slate computer etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the client via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module . The client also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the client and the server side head end system described below.

The client and the remote video recorder also include an operating system for directing the functions of the client in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television set the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the client for example to output the news flash to the television set at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server the remote video recorder and the client side set top box . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layers of the client side set top box and the remote video recorder may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the client passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television set via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The client may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink or from the remote video recorder . The client may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the client for use by the client and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into channels which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the client comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range is generally at a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side set top box . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side set top boxes for presentation to customers via televisions. As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the client the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example content metadata a third party content provider service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded content metadata the middleware layer may be utilized to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the client . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data.

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the client through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the client . According to embodiments client application may include the remote time shift buffer application described herein.

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the example of the computing device includes a processing system memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules .

The memory includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data and or computer executable instructions. According to one embodiment the remote time shift buffer application may be stored locally on computing device . Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor cause the remote time shift buffer application to allow a client to provide the pause live television functionality described above with reference to .

In various embodiments the memory is implemented in various ways. For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data.

According to embodiments the term computer readable media includes communication media and computer readable storage media. Communication media include information delivery media. Computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism may be embodied on a communications medium. The term modulated data signal describes a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage medium may also refer to devices or articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more Intel Core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface card . In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface card the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users for example the remote time shift buffer application . The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs.

Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to flowcharts and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to the Figures. For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The description and illustration of one or more embodiments provided in this application are not intended to limit or restrict the scope of the invention as claimed in any way. The embodiments examples and details provided in this application are considered sufficient to convey possession and enable others to make and use the best mode of claimed invention. The claimed invention should not be construed as being limited to any embodiment example or detail provided in this application. Regardless of whether shown and described in combination or separately the various features both structural and methodological are intended to be selectively included or omitted to produce an embodiment with a particular set of features. Having been provided with the description and illustration of the present application one skilled in the art may envision variations modifications and alternate embodiments falling within the spirit of the broader aspects of the general inventive concept embodied in this application that do not depart from the broader scope of the claimed invention.

