---

title: Service request orchestrator with smart meters
abstract: A system for orchestrating the process of fulfilling service requests for utility services receives a first service request for utility services. The first service request references a first service point. The system evaluates conditions at the first service point. The system issues an electronic command message to fulfill the first service request based on the evaluation of conditions at the first service point. The system receives a second service request for utility services. The second service request references a second service point. The system evaluates conditions at the second service point. The system initiates a field activity to fulfill the second service request based on the evaluation of conditions at the second service point. The receiving the first service request, the evaluating conditions at the first service point, the issuing the electronic command message, the receiving the second service request, the evaluating conditions at the second service point, and the initiating the field activity are performed by a centralized orchestration engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251486&OS=09251486&RS=09251486
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09251486
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130404
---
This application claims priority of Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 744 750 filed on Oct. 3 2012 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

One embodiment is directed generally to a computer system and in particular to a computer system that receives different service requests and orchestrates the process of fulfilling the service requests.

 Orchestration may generally describe the arranging the directing and the managing of computer systems and services. Orchestration may be directed to associating different types of user requests with different applications data and infrastructure. These user requests may be received from customers or clients or may be created internally within an organization. The user requests may be maintenance or repair requests.

An example of an organization that may orchestrate services corresponding to user requests is a utility company. Utility companies are organizations that provide services relating to electricity consumption gas consumption water consumption and sewage treatment. In the course of providing these different types of services utility companies receive a wide variety of different user requests.

One embodiment is a system for orchestrating the process of fulfilling service requests for utility services. The system receives a first service request for utility services. The first service request references a first service point. The system evaluates conditions at the first service point. The system issues an electronic command message to fulfill the first service request based on the evaluation of conditions at the first service point. The system receives a second service request for utility services. The second service request references a second service point. The system evaluates conditions at the second service point. The system initiates a field activity to fulfill the second service request based on the evaluation of conditions at the second service point. The receiving the first service request the evaluating conditions at the first service point the issuing the electronic command message the receiving the second service request the evaluating conditions at the second service point and the initiating the field activity are performed by a centralized orchestration engine.

One embodiment is a system that orchestrates the process of fulfilling service requests. Each service request may refer to a service point and the fulfillment of a particular service request may depend upon variable conditions that exist at the service point of the particular service request. Although there may be different types of service requests which are to be fulfilled in different ways the system uses a centralized orchestration engine to receive the different types of service requests and to evaluate the variable conditions that exist at the service points corresponding to the different service requests. As such the system uses the centralized orchestration engine to fulfill different types of service requests under different types of variable conditions. Therefore the system simplifies the process of fulfilling varied service requests.

In known methods for orchestrating the process of fulfilling service requests different types of service requests are typically processed by separate systems. Each system of the separate systems is usually specialized in processing a specific type of service request. Each system of the separate systems may have its own interface its own appointment processing procedure and its own exception processing procedure. As such in order to manage all of the service requests associated with a particular service delivery point or a particular device a user would generally need to look through all of the different interfaces of the separate systems.

In contrast with the previously known approaches an embodiment of the present system for orchestrating the process of fulfilling service requests consolidates the view of all of the plurality of work requests to be fulfilled is presented. Embodiments provide a centralized system for processing the fulfillment of service requests.

By using a centralized system one embodiment of the present invention allows a user to make timely and accurate decisions to fulfill service requests without requiring the user to look through different user interfaces of disparate systems. One embodiment also allows upgrades to be performed at significantly lower cost as a result of simplified design development quality assurance testing and implementation of the centralized system as compared to a non centralized system. For example if additional functionality needs to be supported by the centralized system e.g. a new device needs to be communicated with by the centralized system one embodiment allows a user to extend the centralized system s meta data so that the system can communicate with the new device without any need for more complicated modifications. Without a centralized system adding functionality to the system may require complex and costly modifications.

By providing a consolidated view of all service requests embodiments of the present invention provide a user with real time and accurate decision making capabilities to fulfill a service request at a service point. In contrast with the previously known approaches the decision making capabilities are scattered among disparate systems. With the decision making capabilities scattered among disparate systems the likelihood of achieving an accurate decision is reduced because conditions at a service point may be continually changing.

In one embodiment of the present invention a centralized system may also require less user involvement when fulfilling a service request at a service point. In contrast with the previously known approaches because the decision making capabilities are scattered among disparate systems the likelihood that at least one of these disparate systems requires user involvement may be high. Not all of the disparate systems may be able to automate the fulfillment of service requests at service points.

In one embodiment of the present invention if a user wishes to determine how a specific service request was fulfilled a single consolidated view provided by a centralized system allows a user to see in a single place the various steps that were taken to fulfill the specific service request. In contrast with the previously known approaches a user would generally need to navigate through many disparate systems in order to examine the various steps that were taken to fulfill a specific service request.

By using a centralized system as implemented by one embodiment of the present invention a user responsible for trouble shooting may go to a single place to override automated decisions. In contrast with the previously known approaches if a decision making process is scattered among disparate systems a user may need to understand how to operate all systems and be able to navigate through each system in order to override automated decisions.

Computer readable media may be any available media that can be accessed by processor and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media and communication media. Communication media may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

Processor may be further coupled via bus to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD . A keyboard and a cursor control device such as a computer mouse may be further coupled to bus to enable a user to interface with system .

In one embodiment memory stores software modules that provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules include an operating system that provides operating system functionality for system . The modules further include service request orchestration module that orchestrates the process of fulfilling service requests as disclosed in more detail below.

System can be part of a larger system such as a utilities management system. Therefore system will typically include one or more additional functional modules to include the additional functionality. One embodiment is implemented in conjunction with functionality provided by Oracle Utilities Suite from Oracle Corp. and so the functionality can be in module or be remote from system . A database is coupled to store data used with modules and . Specifically database may store information relating to received service requests or business rules.

Different organizations within the utilities industry have recently been developing the ability to fulfill different types of service requests using new capabilities offered by smart devices e.g. smart electric meters . Smart devices are generally considered to be devices that can receive and or transmit information electronically. Different organizations are attempting to upgrade their systems to take advantage of the additional capabilities provided by these smart devices. These different organizations are also interested in using user interfaces that can manage automated metering infrastructure AMI head end systems meter data management MDM applications and work management systems which in turn manage the devices. Embodiments of the present invention may orchestrate the fulfilling of received service requests with AMI head end systems as new smart devices are installed or exchanged with old meters.

A service request may be generally understood as a request directed to changing a state of service at a particular service point. Service requests may have a relatively short cycle timeframe for completion. Specifically in one embodiment most service requests should be accomplished in a day but other service requests may require a longer period of time to complete if multiple dependent steps are needed to be performed for completion of the requests. Service requests may refer to a particular target date and service point for completion. Service requests may also require field visits to the service point. In cases where the service point has a smart device service requests may cause an issuance of an electronic command to the device.

In order for a particular service request to be fulfilled embodiments of the present invention orchestrate the process of fulfilling the service request. In one embodiment orchestrating the process of fulfilling the service request includes orchestrating any field activities and any messaging that is necessary for fulfilling the service request.

Specifically one embodiment determines which service requests can be automatically fulfilled via electronic messaging and which service requests should be routed to a workforce management application for assignment to field crews. The determination may be based upon utility industry business rules that evaluate the type and status of an installed device at the service point corresponding to the service request. Specifically if the system determines that a service request can be fulfilled electronically because a smart device exists at the service point the system can automatically initiate appropriate command messages to the smart device. On the other hand if the service request cannot be fulfilled electronically embodiments may automatically initiate field visits to the particular service point by designated field crew personnel.

If a device exists at the particular service point the system appropriately orchestrates the fulfillment of service requests regardless of whether the device is a smart e.g. a smart electric meter or a non smart device e.g. a mechanical meter . The system can orchestrate fulfillment of service requests for smart and or non smart devices.

For example if the system receives a service request to start utility services at a service point the system may first determine if a device e.g. a meter exists at the service point. If there is no device at the service point a field activity may be created initiated to install and connect an electric meter at the service point.

The created field activity may be based on different parameters such as 1 a service point s connection state 2 a service point s disconnect location e.g. if the service point is disconnected the location at which the disconnect occurs 3 the existence of a device at the service point and or 4 if a non smart device is installed whether it is on or off. 

If an electric smart meter already exists at the service point but is in a disconnected state the system may create transmit a command message to an appropriate head end associated with the electric smart meter to connect the electric smart meter. A head end can be understood as an intermediary system that controls smart meters. On the other hand if a non smart device such as a non smart mechanical meter already exists at the service point a field activity may be created to request a reading that occurs on or near the start date for commencing the utility services assuming that the next scheduled meter read date is not close to the start date . The requested reading that occurs on or near the start date for commencing utility services will allow a user to determine the amount of utilities used. For example if a reading that occurs on the start date reads 11111 and a subsequent reading occurring 15 days after the start date reads 11222 a user may determine that 111 units of utilities were consumed in the 15 day period.

As described in the above example the process for fulfilling a particular service request may depend upon a variety of variable conditions. Variable conditions which determine the process for fulfilling a service request include but are not limited to 1 the type of service requested e.g. start stop cut back to back etc. 2 whether the service point is connected to a source of power 3 whether a device is installed at the service point and the specific characteristics of the device e.g. a smart meter a non smart meter 4 the state of any device that is installed at the service point e.g. pre commissioned connected disconnected 5 any characteristics of a head end that manages the device at the service point and 6 for non smart devices the proximity of the scheduled read date to the start date. Therefore when orchestrating the process for fulfilling a particular service request embodiments automatically evaluate and account for the above variables when fulfilling the particular service request.

Embodiments may automatically account for any details relating to a particular service point for which a service request is performed. For example a cut service type of service request may need to be performed differently depending on which locale the service request is performed in. Embodiments may also automatically account for any details relating to a head end vendor at which a service request is performed. For example each head end vendor may require different messages e.g. in terms of the number and types of messages and these requirements may change over releases of software used by each head end vendor.

Each of the external systems may initiate service requests to be performed. For example MDM system may initiate investigations relating to the functioning of a device. Investigations are typically field activities that determine the nature of a problem e.g. no readings are obtainable from a device no response to commands by the device etc. . Investigations may result in a meter exchange i.e. replacing an old meter with a new meter . CCB system may initiate the starting or the stopping of utility services to a customer. A customer may also report issues to a utility organization which subsequently initiates corresponding service requests via CCB system . CCB system may also initiate disconnecting a customer from utility services due to non payment by the customer or connecting the customer to utility services due to resumption of payment by the customer. CCB system may also turn utility services on or off depending on the conditions of use of a pre paid metering plan by a customer. CCB system may also implement rate changes when determining the cost of using utility services by a customer. CCB system may also initiate the exchanging of meters.

ODM system may also initiate the maintaining exchanging of devices. ODM system may also implement firmware updates. ODM system may also change configuration settings for devices. ODM system may also determine when and where smart meters are implemented.

CSS system may generally submit issues for investigation. CSS system may also start or terminate service for a customer.

Service requests from external systems may be received by service order management system . The service requests from external systems may also be combined integrated by middleware . Service order management system may orchestrate the fulfillment of the service requests via an orchestration engine. External systems and service order management system may be provided by the same provider. In another embodiment one or more external systems are provided by third parties different than the provider of service order management system . As described above if a particular service request can be automatically fulfilled via electronic command messaging the system may initiate command messages to a smart device via an AMI system . On the other hand if the service request cannot be automatically fulfilled via command messaging embodiments may automatically initiate field visits via mobile workforce management system .

Upon fulfillment of a service request the system may send an indication that the service request has been fulfilled. The indication may be sent to systems that await the indication e.g. external systems . A system that awaits the indication may or may not have provided the service request to service order management system . Embodiments may provide the indication to more than one external system.

If service order management system in the process of fulfilling the enable service request determines that there is no device installed at the service point then service order management system may create initiate a field activity for the installing of a device at the service point and for the connecting of the installed device to a source of power. This field activity can then be provided to a mobile workforce management system . Once a device e.g. a smart meter is installed at the service point by a field crew the service order management system may issue electronic command messages to the device via the AMI head end that corresponds to the device. The electronic command messages may be smart grid gateway SGG commands that are necessary for fulfillment of the service request. In this example the electronic command messages may instruct the device to be placed in a commissioned state and instruct the device to connect to a source of power. After the service order management system has orchestrated fulfillment of the service request the system can then send an indication that the service request has been fulfilled e.g. a service completion response . This indication can be sent back to CCB system or any other systems that await the indication. Upon receipt of the indication by CCB system the pending state of the start service agreement is removed to indicate that a service agreement can commence between the customer and the respective utility organization.

In another embodiment the system can receive and fulfill a service request whose fulfillment is accomplished using both an issued command message as well as an initiated field activity. Specifically in order to fulfill this type of service request a portion of the service request is fulfilled via an issued electronic command message and another portion of the service request is fulfilled via an initiated field activity. In one embodiment the system can orchestrate the fulfillment of each portion of the service request by directing the issuance of appropriate command messages and or appropriate field activities as needed.

In one embodiment the received service requests are related to utility devices. Examples of different services that may be orchestrated in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention include but are not limited to 1 disabling service 2 implementing back to back service where one previous customer is disconnected from service and a new customer is connected to service 3 cutting service of a customer due to non payment 4 reconnecting service due to payment and 5 enabling service. Each of the above service requests has associated command messages that may be sent and or field activities that may be initiated.

A command message sent to fulfill a service request may depend upon a state of a device at a service point e.g. a state of a smart meter at a service point . The command messages may include device decommissioning remote connect remote disconnect on demand read and device decommissioning for example. A command message may be a command process that comprises one or more sub commands. For example in cases where a smart meter is installed at a service point the command process of a given command may depend upon the head end system software used to communicate electronically with the meter installed at the service point. For example the device decommissioning command may comprise a sub command to inform the head end software system of an identifier number of the installed meter a second sub command to establish communications with that meter and a third sub command to verify that communication was established successfully.

The field activities typically used to fulfill service requests may depend upon the state of service and the meter at the service point. The field activities may include connect service point at meter connect service point at meter and install meter connect service point at meter and turn on connect service point at source connect service point at source and install meter connect service point at meter and turn on cut service for non payment disconnect service point at meter disconnect service point at meter and remove meter disconnect service point at source disconnect service point at source and remove meter install meter read meter remove meter turn on meter and turn off meter for example. Some of these field activities may comprise compounded tasks that serve to save the utility from sending its workers multiple times to a same service point if all of the compounded tasks of the corresponding field activity can be completed by the same field work crew. Supplemental information is generally provided along with the field activity to allow a field worker to complete the assigned work and different supplemental information may be provided depending upon the type of field activity. For example for a field activity that includes reading a meter details supplied with the field activity may include a type of read out provided by the meter e.g. dial or digital a the number of dials if dials are present a maximum dial reading a number of registers and a high reading limit low reading limit based on a customer s historical usage data for example. Embodiments of the present invention may supply the appropriate supplemental information for each of the field activity types listed above.

In addition to orchestrating the fulfillment of service requests relating to electric utilities other embodiments may orchestrate the fulfillment of service requests relating to gas water or sewage. Embodiments may use Oracle Utilities Application Framework OUAF tools and interfaces.

As described above in one embodiment the system can receive and fulfill a service request whose fulfillment is accomplished using both an issued command message as well as an initiated field activity. This type of service request has a portion to be fulfilled via an issued electronic message and another portion to be fulfilled via an initiated field activity. Referring again to service request Enable Service may have a portion that is to be fulfilled by initiated field activities . Service request may also have another portion that is to be fulfilled by issued electronic command Device Commissioning . In this example electronic command may show the commencement of issued electronic commands.

One embodiment provides a single interface that displays all of the received service requests. In another embodiment a single interface displays all of the received service requests at a specific service point.

At a service request is received. As previously described the service request may be from external systems e.g. external systems of . The service request may be received by a service order management system e.g. service order management system of . In one embodiment the service order management system may generate a service request itself.

At a service order management system automatically evaluates various variable conditions that are to be accounted for when fulfilling the service request. As described above the various variable conditions may be specific to the service point for which the service request pertains. As described above variable conditions that a service order management system e.g. service order management system will take into account may include but are not limited to 1 the type of service request 2 whether the service point is connected to a source of power 3 whether a device is installed at the service point and the characteristics of the device 4 the state of any device that is installed at the service point 5 the characteristics of the head end that manages any device at the service point and 6 for non smart devices the proximity of a scheduled read date to the start date.

At the process of fulfilling the service request is orchestrated in accordance with the variable conditions that have been evaluated in and in accordance with predetermined business rules that define how to fulfill the service request in view of the variables . As described above in one embodiment orchestrating the process of fulfilling the service requests includes orchestrating any field activities and any messaging that is necessary for fulfilling the service requests. The fulfilling of the service requests is performed by a centralized orchestration engine.

At once the service request is fulfilled an indication that the service request has been fulfilled may be sent. As previously described the indication may be sent to systems that await the indication e.g. external systems .

As described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system that receives service requests and orchestrates the process of fulfilling a service request. The system orchestrates the process of fulfilling the service request by evaluating and taking into account variable conditions that exist at a service point corresponding to the service request. The system then determines the process of fulfilling the service request in accordance to a set of business rules. After the service request is fulfilled an indication that the service request has been fulfilled may be transmitted to systems that await the indication. Embodiments provide a consolidated view of all of the plurality of work requests to be fulfilled. As such a centralized system for processing the fulfillment of service requests is provided.

Several embodiments are specifically illustrated and or described herein. However it will be appreciated that modifications and variations of the disclosed embodiments are covered by the above teachings and within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention.

