---

title: Highly selective 5-HT(2C) receptor agonists that show anti-psychotic effects with antagonist activity at the 5-HT(2B) receptor
abstract: Highly selective 5-HT(2C) receptor agonists receptors are disclosed. The 5-HT(2C) receptor agonists are used in the treatments of disease and conditions wherein modulation of 5-HT(2C) receptors provides a benefit, such as obesity and psychiatric disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08754132&OS=08754132&RS=08754132
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 08754132
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130506
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 576 819 filed Dec. 12 2012 which is the U.S. national phase application of International Application No. PCT US2011 023535 filed Feb. 3 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 301 441 filed Feb. 4 2010 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under grant numbers R01 DA022317 R01 MH61887 N01 MH80032 and U19 MH82441 awarded by NIH NIDA. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to compounds that modulate 5 HT 2 receptors. More particularly the present invention relates to highly selective 5 HT 2C agonists that also may exhibit antagonist activity at the 5 HT 2B receptor. The compounds are used methods of treating diseases and conditions wherein modulation of 5 HT 2 receptors provide a benefit such as obesity and psychiatric disorders.

5 Hydroxytryptamine 5 HT mediates or regulates a wide variety of behaviors including for example cognition emotion attention and appetite among others. In addition substantial data indicates that 5 HT is involved in mediating the effects of psychomotor stimulants such as cocaine and 3 4 methylenedioxy methamphetamine MDMA or ecstasy . Evidence shows that serotonergic systems in the brain also regulate dopaminergic reward systems and other factors including the conditioning effects that environmental factors have in maintaining drug taking behavior.

It is understood that the various physiologic effects of 5 HT are based on its interaction with a number of different 5 HT receptor subtypes which activate different intracellular signaling systems. Seven families of 5 HT receptors have been identified including the 5 HT2 receptor family in which three subtypes are known 5 HT 2A 5 HT 2B and 5 HT 2C receptors . The 5 HT 2 receptor family of serotonin receptors represent key sites of action of serotonin in the brain and likely comprise the major molecular targets for drugs used in treating a variety of diseases including schizophrenia depression anxiety eating disorders obsessive compulsive disorder chronic pain conditions and obesity.

The 5 hydroxytryptamine 2C receptor 5 HT 2C a prominent central serotonin receptor subtype is widely distributed throughout the central nervous system CNS and is thought to play a role in regulating a wide variety of behavioral processes such as mood appetite and sexual behavior 1 4 . The 5 HT 2A receptor mediates the hallucinogenic activity of drugs such as lysergic acid diethylamide LSD and is a major target for treating schizophrenia insomnia and other disorders 5 . The 5 HT 2B receptor mediates the potentially lethal valvulopathic side effects of several compounds used as prescription drugs. 6 7 

5 HT 2C agonists have demonstrated efficacy in preclinical models of depression obesity addiction and psychosis 8 10 . Therapeutics that target the 5 HT 2C receptor offers a promising means for the treatment of CNS related disorders. However because the 5 HT 2C receptor is homologous to the two other family members 11 it is important that 5 HT 2C agonists developed for clinical use show little if any activity at these subtypes 12 . To date several 5 HT 2C agonists have shown efficacy in preclinical animal models 13 15 and are currently undergoing human trials 13 . In particular one of the most advanced 5 HT 2C receptor agonist is Lorcaserin which is an orally active antiobesity medication presently in two Phase III trials 16 .

Drugs may interact with more than one 5 HT 2 receptor sub type resulting in potentially undesired side effects. For example in addition to monoamine transporters fenfluramine exhibits 5 HT 2C receptor agonism in vivo and that the anorectic functions of fenfluramine are due primarily to this latter activity at least in laboratory animals. It is also clear that 5 HT 2B receptor agonism is likely responsible for the undesirable cardiopulmonary actions of fenfluramine and related drugs.

These findings indicate that there is a need in the art for drugs that interact selectively with 5 HT 2 receptor subtypes and in particular selective 5 HT 2C receptor agonists which exhibit minimal effect on 5 HT 2A and 5 HT 2B receptors. Selective 5 HT 2C receptor agonists can be useful for treatment obesity and related or associated disorders including hypertension hyperlipidemia diabetes and cardiovascular disease and avoid interaction with several related and unrelated receptors associated with significant morbidity and mortality e.g. valvular heart disease associated with activation of the 5 HT 2B receptor subtype and hallucinations associated with activation of the 5 HT 2A receptor subtype.

Selective 5 HT 2C receptor agonists can be useful in the treatment of depression anxiety panic disorder schizophrenia OCD epilepsy and migraine in addition to obesity. 5 HT 2C receptor agonists are further disclosed in WO 2006 065600 as useful for treatment of Alzheimer s Disease in prevention or treatment of senile plaques and in the treatment of sexual dysfunction in males and females including the treatment of erectile dysfunction.

A number of synthetic compounds have been reported that show 5 HT 2C receptor agonistic activity including in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 962 939 6 777 407 7 012 089 6 953 787 and 7 071 185 U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2005 197380 2005 020573 2006 154290 2005 026925 2005 0143452 2002 032199 and 2005 0261347 and published PCT applications WO 2000 035922 WO 2006 065600 WO 2006 077025 and WO 2005 007614 for example.

An important advance in the art would be the discovery of selective 5 HT 2C receptor agonists that are useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein 5 HT 2C receptor agonism provides a benefit such as psychiatric disorders addictive behaviors cognition disorders obesity movement disorders and compound addiction for example. A significant need exists in the art for efficacious compounds compositions and methods useful in the treatment of such diseases and conditions alone or in conjunction with other therapies used to treat these diseases and conditions. The present invention is directed to meeting this need.

The present invention relates to 5 HT 2C receptor agonists pharmaceutical compositions comprising the 5 HT 2C receptor agonists and methods of treating diseases and conditions wherein agonism of 5 HT 2C receptors provides a benefit such as psychiatric disorders and obesity comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a 5 HT 2C receptor agonist to an individual in need thereof. The present 5 HT 2C receptor agonists exhibit selectivity over other members of the 5 HT 2 family of receptors.

wherein R independently is selected from the group consisting of Calkyl hydroxyCalkyl haloCalkyl Calkenyl CF OCF Cheteroalkyl OR SR halo NO CN NC C O R C C OR N R R C O N R R SON R R NRC O R N C R R NRC O OR SOR SOR P O OR P O OR OR and NH P O OR OR 

Rand R independently are selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl 

The present compounds modulate receptors of the 5 HT 2 family of receptors and particularly 5 HT 2C receptors. In some embodiments the present compounds selectively modulate the 5 HT 2C receptor while exhibiting significantly less or no activity on the 5 HT 2B receptor. In some embodiments the present compounds selectively modulate the 5 HT 2C receptor while exhibiting significantly less or no activity on the 5 HT 2A receptor. In some embodiments the present compounds are agonists for the 5 HT 2C receptor. In preferred embodiments compounds of this invention are selective agonists for the 5 HT 2C receptor while exhibiting significantly less or no agonist activity on the 5 HT 2A receptor and or the 5 HT 2B receptor.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a condition or disease by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a 5 HT 2C receptor agonist of structural formula I to an individual in need thereof. The disease or condition of interest is treatable by modulating the activity of 5 HT 2C receptors for example psychiatric disorders addictive behaviors cognitive disorders obesity movement disorders and compound addictions.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a method of treating a disease or condition by modulating 5 HT 2C receptor activity comprising administering to an individual in need thereof such as a human a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I . The compound of structural formula I can be administered as the sole therapy or in conjunction with a therapeutically effective amount of a second therapeutic agent useful in a treatment of the disease or condition.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of structural formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Another embodiment of the present invention is to utilize a compound of structural formula I and an optional second therapeutically active agent in a method of treating an individual for a disease or condition wherein modulation of 5 HT 2C receptor activity provides a benefit.

In a further embodiment the invention provides for use of a composition comprising a compound of structural formula I and an optional second therapeutic agent for the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease or condition of interest e.g. a psychiatric disorder.

Still another embodiment of the present invention is to provide a kit for human pharmaceutical use comprising a a container b1 a packaged composition comprising a compound of structural formula I and optionally b2 a packaged composition comprising a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of a disease or condition of interest and c a package insert containing directions for use of the composition or compositions administered simultaneously or sequentially in the treatment of the disease or condition of interest.

The compound of structural formula I and the second therapeutic agent can be administered together as a single unit dose or separately as multi unit doses wherein the compound of structural formula I is administered before the second therapeutic agent or vice versa. It is envisioned that one or more dose of a compound of structural formula I and or one or more dose of a second therapeutic agent can be administered.

In one embodiment a compound of structural formula I and a second therapeutic agent are administered simultaneously. In related embodiments a compound of structural formula I and a second therapeutic agent are administered from a single composition or from separate compositions. In a further embodiment a compound of structural formula I and a second therapeutic agent are administered sequentially. A compound of structural formula I can be administered in an amount of about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams per dose about 0.05 to about 250 milligrams per dose or about 0.5 to about 100 milligrams per dose.

An additional embodiment of the present invention is a method for modulating a 5 HT 2C receptor in vivo or in vitro comprising contacting the receptor with one or more compound of structural formula I . In specific embodiments the method stimulates or activates the 5 HT 2C receptor. In specific embodiments the compounds of structural formula I are 5 HT 2C receptor agonists or selective agonists.

These and other novel aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

The present invention is directed to novel modulators of 5 HT 2C activity and their use in therapeutic treatments of for example psychiatric disorders obesity cognitive disorders addiction movement disorders and compound addiction. In some embodiments the present compounds selectively modulate 5 HT 2C receptors over other 5 HT 2 receptors.

The present invention is described in connection with preferred embodiments. However it should be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. It is understood that given the description of the embodiments of the invention herein various modifications can be made by a person skilled in the art.

The term a disease or condition wherein modulation of 5 HT 2C receptors provides a benefit pertains to a condition in which 5 HT 2C receptors and or the action of 5 HT 2C receptors is important or necessary e.g. for the onset progress expression of that disease or condition or a disease or a condition which is known to be treated by a modulation of 5 HT 2C receptors. Examples of such conditions include but are not limited to schizoaffective disorders schizophrenia clinical depression bipolar disorder addictive behaviors compound addiction e.g. cocaine metamphetamine and amphetamine obsessive compulsive disorder movement disorders e.g. Huntington s disease Parkinson s disease and dyskinesia cognition disorders e.g. Alzheimer s disease and mild cognitive impairment metabolic disorders e.g. dyslipidemia Type 2 diabetes metabolic syndrome and obesity and eating disorders. One of ordinary skill in the art is readily available to determine whether a compound treats a disease or condition mediated by 5 HT 2C receptors for any particular cell type for example by assays which conveniently can be used to assess the activity of particular compounds.

The term second therapeutic agent refers to a therapeutic agent different from a compound of structural formula I and that is known to treat the disease or condition of interest. For example when obesity is the disease or condition of interest the second therapeutic agent can be a known anti obesity drug.

As used herein the terms treat treating treatment and the like refer to eliminating reducing relieving reversing and or ameliorating a disease or condition and or symptoms associated therewith. Although not precluded treating a disease or condition does not require that the disease condition or symptoms associated therewith be completely eliminated including the treatment of acute or chronic signs symptoms and or malfunctions. As used herein the terms treat treating treatment and the like may include prophylactic treatment which refers to reducing the probability of redeveloping a disease or condition or of a recurrence of a previously controlled disease or condition in a subject who does not have but is at risk of or is susceptible to redeveloping a disease or condition or a recurrence of the disease or condition treatment therefore also includes relapse prophylaxis or phase prophylaxis. The term treat and synonyms contemplate administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention to an individual in need of such treatment. A treatment can be orientated symptomatically for example to suppress symptoms. It can be effected over a short period be oriented over a medium term or can be a long term treatment for example within the context of a maintenance therapy.

The term therapeutically effective amount or effective dose as used herein refers to an amount of the active ingredient s that when administered is are sufficient to efficaciously deliver the active ingredient s for the treatment of condition or disease of interest to an individual in need thereof.

The term container means any receptacle and closure therefor suitable for storing shipping dispensing and or handling a pharmaceutical product.

The term insert means information accompanying a pharmaceutical product that provides a description of how to administer the product along with the safety and efficacy data required to allow the physician pharmacist and patient to make an informed decision regarding use of the product. The package insert generally is regarded as the label for a pharmaceutical product.

 Concurrent administration administered in combination simultaneous administration and similar phrases mean that two or more agents are administered concurrently to the subject being treated. By concurrently it is meant that each agent is administered either simultaneously or sequentially in any order at different points in time. However if not administered simultaneously it is meant that they are administered to an individual in a sequence and sufficiently close in time so as to provide the desired therapeutic effect and can act in concert. For example a compound of structural formula I can be administered at the same time or sequentially in any order at different points in time as a second therapeutic agent. A present compound and the second therapeutic agent can be administered separately in any appropriate form and by any suitable route. When a present compound and the second therapeutic agent are not administered concurrently it is understood that they can be administered in any order to a subject in need thereof. For example a present compound can be administered prior to e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 12 hours 24 hours 48 hours 72 hours 96 hours 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks or 12 weeks before concomitantly with or subsequent to e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 12 hours 24 hours 48 hours 72 hours 96 hours 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks or 12 weeks after the administration of a second therapeutic agent treatment to an individual in need thereof. In various embodiments a compound of structural formula I and the second therapeutic agent are administered 1 minute apart 10 minutes apart 30 minutes apart less than 1 hour apart 1 hour apart 1 hour to 2 hours apart 2 hours to 3 hours apart 3 hours to 4 hours apart 4 hours to 5 hours apart 5 hours to 6 hours apart 6 hours to 7 hours apart 7 hours to 8 hours apart 8 hours to 9 hours apart 9 hours to 10 hours apart 10 hours to 11 hours apart 11 hours to 12 hours apart no more than 24 hours apart or no more than 48 hours apart. In one embodiment the components of the combination therapies are administered at 1 minute to 24 hours apart.

The term agonist refers generally to a compound that interacts with and activates a receptor such as one or more of the receptors of the 5 HT2 family of receptors and initiates a physiological or pharmacological response characteristic of that receptor.

The term antagonist refers generally to a compound that binds to the receptor at the same site as an agonist but which does not activate the intracellular response initiated by the active form of the receptor and as such an antagonist can inhibit the intracellular responses by agonists.

As used herein the term selective 5 HT 2C receptor agonist means an agonist compound that is selective for binding and activation of 5 HT 2C receptors compared to the other receptors of the 5 HT2 family of receptors. An agonist of this invention can be selective for the 5 HT 2C receptor over the 5 HT 2B receptor be selective for the 5 HT 2C receptor over the 5 HT 2A receptor or be selective for the 5 HT 2C receptor over both the 5 HT 2B and 5 HT 2A receptors. In some embodiments a present 5 HT 2C receptor agonist can exhibit agonist activity with respect to the 5 HT 2A receptor. A selective 5 HT 2C receptor agonist can exhibit a 5 fold 10 fold 20 fold 30 fold 40 fold 50 fold 60 fold 70 fold 80 fold 90 fold 100 fold or 200 fold or more higher activity for the 5 HT 2C receptor compared to either or both of the 5 HT 2B or 5 HT 2A receptors.

Selectivity can be assessed for example by determining ECratios for different receptors. Any method known in the art to be reliable and accurate for measuring receptor agonist activity can be used to assess selectivity of a given agonist. As understood by one skilled in the art selectivity can be determined for example using a receptor binding assay or a functional assay. In specific embodiments methods described in the examples herein or in methods detailed in references cited herein can be employed. In specific embodiments herein 5 HT 2C receptor agonists of this invention can also exhibit selectively over receptors of 5 HT families other than those of the 5 HT2 family. In specific embodiments herein 5 HT 2C receptor agonists of this invention may exhibit antagonist activity for 5 HT 2B receptors.

In some embodiments a present 5 HT 2C receptor agonist exhibits an ECvalue for activation of human 5 HT 2C receptors of 100 nM or less. In preferred embodiments the 5 HT 2C receptor agonists exhibit ECvalues for activation of human 5 HT 2C receptors of 25 nM or less. In more preferred embodiments 5 HT 2C receptor agonists exhibit ECvalues for activation of human 5 HT 2C receptors of 10 nM or less. In some embodiments compounds of the present invention exhibit 5 fold or more selectivity as agonists for 5 HT 2C receptors compared to 5 HT 2B receptors or 5 HT 2A receptors as assessed by determination of ECratios. In some embodiments compounds of present invention exhibit 10 fold or more selectivity as agonists for 5 HT 2C receptors compared to 5 HT 2B receptors or 5 HT 2A receptors as assessed by determination of ECratios. In preferred embodiments the present compounds exhibit 100 fold or more selectivity as agonists for 5 HT 2C receptors compared to 5 HT 2B receptors or 5 HT 2A receptors as assessed by determination of ECratios.

The use of the terms a an the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated. Recitation of ranges of values herein merely serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value and subrange is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as and like provided herein is intended to better illustrate the invention and is not a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Selective 5 HT 2C receptor agonists are known. For example. the following compound 1 is a potent moderately selective 5 HT 2C agonist having a 120 and 14 fold selectivity over 5 HT 2A and 5 HT 2B respectively EC 585 65 and 4.8 nM at the 2A 2B and 2C subtypes respectively . Compound 1 10 60 mg kg also demonstrated moderate antidepressant like effects in a commonly used behavioral assay 15 .

However compound 1 does not exhibit sufficient selectivity over the 5 HT 2B receptor to qualify as a potential clinical candidate. In particular the degree of selectivity was considered too low to avoid side effects attributed to 5 HT 2B activity. Accordingly new drug candidates with an increased subtype selectivity including dual 5 HT 2B receptor antagonism 5 HT 2C receptor agonism were sought.

The present invention is directed to 5 HT 2C receptor agonists of structural formula I compositions comprising a compound of structural formula I and therapeutic uses of compounds of structural formula I 

wherein R independently is selected from the group consisting of Calkyl hydroxyCalkyl haloCalkyl Calkenyl CF OCF Cheteroalkyl OR SR halo NO CN NC C O R C C OR N R R C O N R R SON R R NRC O R N C R R NRC O OR SOR SOR P O OR P O OR OR and NH P O OR OR 

Rand R independently are selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl 

In some preferred embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of halo OR SR NO CN NC Calkyl haloCalkyl OCF Cheteroalkyl and hydroxyCalkyl. In more preferred embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of fluoro chloro bromo OH OCH OCF CF and NO. In preferred embodiments n is 0 1 or 2.

The compounds of structural formula I modulate 5 HT 2C receptors and are useful in the treatment of a variety of diseases and conditions. In particular compounds of structural formula I are used in methods of treating a disease or condition wherein activity of 5 HT 2C receptors provides a benefit for example psychiatric conditions and obesity. The methods comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I to an individual in need thereof.

The present methods also encompass administering a second therapeutic agent to the individual in addition to a compound of structural formula I . The second therapeutic agent is selected from agents such as drugs and adjuvants known as useful in treating the disease or condition afflicting the individual e.g. a therapeutic agent known as useful in treating a particular psychiatric disorder.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to straight chained and branched saturated hydrocarbon groups nonlimiting examples of which include methyl ethyl and straight chain and branched propyl butyl pentyl and hexyl groups containing the indicated number of carbon atoms. The term Cmeans the alkyl group has n carbon atoms.

The term alkylene refers to a bidentate moiety obtained by removing two hydrogen atoms from an alkane. An alkylene is positioned between two other chemical groups and serves to connect them. An example of an alkylene group is CH . An alkyl e.g. methyl or alkylene e.g. CHCH group can be substituted independently with one or more of halo trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy hydroxy alkoxy nitro cyano alkylamino and amino groups for example.

The term alkenyl is defined identically as alkyl except for containing a carbon carbon double bond e.g. ethenyl propenyl and butenyl. The term alkenylene is defined identically to alkylene except for containing a carbon carbon double bond.

The term heteroalkyl refers to an alkyl group having one or more and typically one to three heteroatoms in the carbon chain of the alkyl group. The heteroatoms independently are selected from O S and NR wherein R is hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl. A term such as Cheteroalkyl means that the group contains 1 to 6 carbon atoms in addition to the heteroatoms.

The term perfluoroalkyl is defined as an alkyl group wherein all hydrogen atoms are replaced by fluorine atoms.

The term alkoxy is defined as OR wherein R is alkyl. The term perfluoroalkoxy is defined as an alkoxy group wherein all hydrogen atoms are replaced by fluorine atoms.

The term amino is defined as NR wherein each R group independently is hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl heteroaryl or aryl or both R groups are taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a 3 to 8 membered ring.

As used herein the term aryl refers to a monocyclic aromatic group e.g. phenyl. Unless otherwise indicated an aryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to five groups independently selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl OCF NO CN NC OH alkoxy amino alkylamino COH COalkyl alkynyl cycloalkyl nitro sulfhydryl imino amido phosphonate phosphinate silyl alkylthio sulfonyl sulfonamide aldehyde heterocycloalkyl trifluoromethyl aryl and heteroaryl. Exemplary aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl fluorophenyl methylphenyl methoxyphenyl trifluoromethylphenyl nitrophenyl 2 4 methoxychlorophenyl and the like.

As used herein the term heteroaryl refers to a monocyclic ring system containing at least one nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom in an aromatic ring. Unless otherwise indicated a heteroaryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to four substituents selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl OCF NO CN NC OH alkoxy amino alkylamino COH COalkyl alkynyl cycloalkyl nitro sulfhydryl imino amido phosphonate phosphinate silyl alkylthio sulfonyl sulfonamide aldehyde heterocycloalkyl trifluoromethyl aryl and heteroaryl. Examples of heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to thienyl furyl oxazolyl thiophenyl triazolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl imidazolyl pyrimidinyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl pyrrolyl and triazinyl.

As used herein the term Ccycloalkyl means a monocyclic aliphatic ring containing three to eight carbon atoms either saturated or unsaturated.

As used herein the term heterocycloalkyl means a monocyclic or a bicyclic aliphatic ring containing 3 to 10 total atoms either saturated or unsaturated of which one to five of the atoms are independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and the remaining atoms are carbon.

The term haloalkyl refers to an alkyl group as defined herein substituted by one or more halides i.e. F Cl I and or Br as defined herein which may be the same or different.

The term hydroxyalkyl refers to an alkyl group substituted by one or more hydroxyl groups. An exemplary hydroxyalkyl group is hydroxymethyl CH OH .

Alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl groups may be substituted or unsubstituted. These groups may be optionally substituted as described herein and may contain non hydrogen substituents dependent upon the number of carbon or other atoms in the group and the degree of unsaturation of the group.

All groups defined herein therefore can be optionally substituted. Optional substitution refers to substitution with one or more of the following functional groups nitro azido cyano isocyano halogen Cl F Br or I hydroxyl alkyl including Calkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl arylalkyl heteroarylalkyl heterocyclyl acyl formyl acetyl haloalkyl haloary alkyloxy including Calkoxy alkenoxy alkynoxy aryloxy benzyloxy phenyloxy benzoyl acyloxy alkyl acyloxy oxycarbonyl alkyl oxycarbonyl NH or NH amino alkylamino arylamino amido alkyl amido arylamido CO NH imino alkylimino arylimino ether thioether SH sulfenyl alkyl sulfenyl including Calkyl sulfenyl and C1 C3 alkyl sulfenyl hydroxyalkyl haloalkyl fluoroalkyl pefluoroalkyl trifluoromethyl sulfonate sulfonyl phosphonate phosphinate or silyl wherein alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl arylalkyl heteroarylalkyl and heterocycloalkyl groups of the substituents are in turn optionally substituted with one or more of nitro azido cyano isocyano halogen NH or NH hydroxyl CO NH COOH or carboxylate or SH.

Additionally salts and hydrates of the present 5 HT 2C receptor agonists also are included in the present invention and can be used in the methods disclosed herein. The present invention further includes all possible stereoisomers and geometric isomers of the compounds of structural formula I . The present invention includes both racemic compounds and optically active isomers. When a compound of structural formula I is desired as a single enantiomer it can be obtained either by resolution of the final product or by stereospecific synthesis from either isomerically pure starting material or use of a chiral auxiliary reagent for example see Z. Ma et al. 8 6 pages 883 888 1997 . Resolution of the final product an intermediate or a starting material can be achieved by any suitable method known in the art. Additionally in situations where tautomers of the compounds of structural formula I are possible the present invention is intended to include all tautomeric forms of the compounds.

Compounds of the invention can exist as salts. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present 5 HT 2C receptor agonists often are preferred in the methods of the invention. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts or zwitterionic forms of the compounds of structural formula I . Salts of compounds of formula I can be prepared during the final isolation and purification of the compounds or separately by reacting the compound with an acid having a suitable cation. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of structural formula I can be acid addition salts formed with pharmaceutically acceptable acids. Examples of acids which can be employed to form pharmaceutically acceptable salts include inorganic acids such as nitric boric hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric and phosphoric and organic acids such as oxalic maleic succinic tartaric and citric. Nonlimiting examples of salts of compounds of the invention include but are not limited to the hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide sulfate bisulfate 2 hydroxyethansulfonate phosphate hydrogen phosphate acetate adipate alginate aspartate benzoate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate digluconate glycerolphosphate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate formate succinate fumarate maleate ascorbate isethionate salicylate methanesulfonate mesitylenesulfonate naphthylenesulfonate nicotinate 2 naphthalenesulfonate oxalate pamoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylproprionate picrate pivalate propionate trichloroacetate trifluoroacetate phosphate glutamate bicarbonate paratoluenesulfonate undecanoate lactate citrate tartrate gluconate methanesulfonate ethanedisulfonate benzene sulphonate and p toluenesulfonate salts. In addition available amino groups present in the compounds of the invention can be quaternized with methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides and benzyl and phenethyl bromides. In light of the foregoing any reference to compounds of the present invention appearing herein is intended to include compounds of structural formula I as well as pharmaceutically acceptable salts hydrates or prodrugs thereof.

The compounds of structural formula I may contain one or more asymmetric carbon atoms such that the compounds can exist in different stereoisomeric forms. The compounds can be for example racemates or optically active forms. The present invention therefore encompasses racemic forms of the compounds of structural formula I as well as the individual enantiomers and non racemic mixtures thereof. The optically active forms can be obtained by resolution of the racemates or by asymmetric synthesis. In some preferred embodiments of the invention enantiomers of the invention exhibit specific rotation that is positive . Preferably the enantiomers are substantially free of the corresponding enantiomer. Thus an enantiomer substantially free of the corresponding enantiomer refers to a compound which is isolated or separated via separation techniques or is prepared free of the corresponding enantiomer. Substantially free means that the compound is made up of a significantly greater proportion of one enantiomer. In preferred embodiments the compound is made up of at least about 90 by weight of a preferred enantiomer. In other embodiments of the invention the compound is made up of at least about 99 by weight of a preferred enantiomer. Preferred enantiomers may be isolated from racemic mixtures by any method known to those skilled in the art including high performance liquid chromatography HPLC and the formation and crystallization of chiral salts or prepared by methods described herein. See for example Jacques et al. Enantiomers Racemates and Resolutions Wiley Interscience New York 1981 Wilen S. H. et al. 33 2725 1977 Eliel E. L. Stereochemistry of Carbon Compounds McGraw Hill N.Y. 1962 Wilen S. H. Tables of Resolving Agents and Optical Resolutions p. 268 E. L. Eliel Ed. Univ. of Notre Dame Press Notre Dame Ind. 1972 .

Compounds of the present invention are prepared employing methods as described herein or are prepared by routine modification or adaptation of the methods herein for example by selection of starting materials or variation of reagents solvents and or purification methods in view of knowledge in the art.

Compounds of the present invention were prepared using the following synthetic schemes for compounds 12 and 18. Additional compounds can be prepared by proper selection of starting materials. In particular the 2 cyclopropylmethyloxy 5 fluoro substituted derivative 12 was synthesized according to the steps shown in Scheme 1. The starting compound 9 was prepared by employing the standard sequence of reactions as previously reported 15 . The amino group of the phenolic derivative 9 was protected using Boc anhydride. The N Boc protected derivative 10 then was alkylated with cyclopropylmethyl bromide followed by subsequent deprotection to provide the racemic compound 12.

To synthesize the 2 cyclopropylmethyloxy 5 hydroxy substituted derivative 18 the 2 cyclopropylmethyloxy intermediate 16 was prepared through a sequence of selective protection and alkylation steps 17 . Next the pivaloyl and Boc protecting groups were removed sequentially to afford the final product 18 Scheme 2 .

To prepare the optically pure enantiomers of compound 12 Scheme 3 a chiral separation of the N Boc protected fluoro derivative 11 using Chiralpack AD column was performed. Under isocratic conditions 7 isopropanol in hexane the individual enantiomers were conveniently separated in pure 99 state. Due to the high resolution stacked injections could be employed in order to increase throughput. The chiral separation was performed on intermediate 11 because of the ease of the separation and the ready cleavage of the resulting enantiomers under acidic conditions.

The resulting enantiomers 11 and 11 were then converted individually to and trans 2 2 cyclopropylmethyloxy 5 fluorophenyl cyclopropyl methylamine hydrochloride 12 and 12 respectively using the same method as described above for the racemate. For preparation of the pure enantiomers of compound 18 intermediate 17 was used for the chiral separation.

General. H and C NMR spectra were obtained with a Bruker Avance spectrometer at 400 and 100 MHz respectively. H chemical shifts were reported in ppm downfield from internal MeSi. Mass spectra were measured in positive mode electrospray ionization ESI . Optical rotations were measured with an AUTOPOL IV Rudolph Research Analytical instrument. TLC was performed on silica gel 60F 254 glass plates. Column chromatography was performed using CombiFlash Rf system with RediSep Rf or alternatively using Merck silica gel 230 400 mesh . Analytical HPLC was performed using an Agilent 1100 with a Variable wavelength detector G1314A system equipped with the Phenomenex Luna C 18 column 4.6 150 mm 5 m . Method HO MeCN or MeOH 0.1 TFA 90 10 0 100 in 18 min 2 min isocratic flow rate of 1.6 mL min 280 nm. The purity of the target compounds was determined to be 98 by analytical HPLC. Chiral HPLC was performed using a Shimadzu LC8A HPLC system with UV Vis. SPD 10avp detector system equipped with Chiralpak AD 10.0 250 mm DAICEL and Chiralpak AD 30.0 250 mm DAICEL columns used for chiral HPLC analysis and separation respectively. Starting materials were obtained from Aldrich Alfa Aesar or Acros. Solvents were obtained from Fisher Scientific or Aldrich and were used without further purification unless noted otherwise.

Step A trans 2 5 Fluorophenyl 2 hydroxy cyclopropylmethyl carbamic Acid tert Butyl Ester 10 . To a solution of trans 2 5 fluorophenyl 2 hydroxy cyclopropylmethylamine 9 10.0 g 55.2 mmol and BocO 13.2 g 60.7 mmol in CHCl 100 mL was added triethylamine 30.8 mL 221 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min and then at rt for 30 min. To the resulting mixture were added sat. aq NaHCO. The organic layer was further washed with water 1 dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography using gradient elution from 0 EtOAc hexane to 30 EtOAc hexane to afford the title compounds as a white solid 10.5 g 67.6 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.79 6.74 m 2H 6.62 6.59 m 1H 5.04 bs 1H 3.52 3.44 m 2H 2.90 2.85 m 1H 1.93 1.89 m 1H 1.47 s 9H 0.95 0.90 m 1H 0.77 0.73 m 1H .

Step B trans 2 2 Cyclopropylmethyloxy 5fluorophenyl cyclopropylmethyl carbamic Acid tert Butyl Ester 11 . To a solution of compound 10 5 g 17.8 mmol in DMF were added KCO 9.8 g 71.1 mmol and bromomethyl cyclopropane 6.90 mL 71.1 mmol . After the mixture was stirred at 70 C. overnight the organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography using gradient elution from 0 EtOAc hexane to 20 EtOAc hexane to afford the title compound as a colorless oil 5.8 g 97.3 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.83 6.78 m 1 H 6.73 6.70 m 1 H 6.67 6.64 m 1 H 5.31 bs 1H 3.98 3.94 m 1 H 3.72 3.64 m 2 H 2.71 2.67 m 1 H 1.90 1.85 m 1 H 1.45 1.40 m 10 H 1.03 0.99 m 2 H 0.84 0.80 m 1 H 0.69 0.65 m 2 H 0.40 0.35 m 2 H .

Step C The protected amine 11 5.8 g 17.3 mmol was dissolved in a 2 N HCl solution in diethyl ether 43 mL 86 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 48 h. A white precipitate formed after several hours and the mixture was stirred until the reaction was complete by TLC. The crude precipitate was filtered and purified by recrystallization from ethanol EtO to afford the title compound as a white powder 4.3 g 91.5 yield . HPLC purity 12.0 min 99.8 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 6.86 6.70 m 3 H 3.91 3.78 m 2 H 3.04 d J 7.2 Hz 2 H 2.18 2.12 m 1 H 1.32 1.28 m 1 H 1.16 1.02 m 2 H 0.64 0.62 m 2 H 0.39 0.37 m 2 H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 158.6 d 1 J CF 236.9 Hz 155.4 132.7 d 3 J CF 7.6 Hz 114.5 114.2 114.2 114.0 114.0 75.1 45.2 19.8 18.4 13.4 11.4 4.0 3.6. MS ESI m z 236.2 MH .

Step A trans 2 2 5 Dihydroxyphenyl cyclopropylmethyl carbamic Acid tert Butyl Ester 14 . To a solution of trans 2 2 5 dimethoxyphenyl cyclopropylmethyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 13 4.20 g 13.7 mmol in CHCl 30 mL at 78 C. was added BBr 1.0 M solution in CHCl 47.8 mL 47.8 mmol dropwise. The solution was warmed to rt and the reaction mixture was quenched with MeOH 110 mL and concentrated in vacuo. This process was repeated until no white fumes were observed upon addition of MeOH to give a crude product as pale yellow oils. The crude product was used without any further purification. A solution of the crude product BocO 3.28 g 15.0 mmol and triethylamine 7.62 mL 54.7 mmol in CHCl 30 mL was stirred at rt for 30 min. To the resulting mixture were added sat. aq NaHCO and the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 . The organic layer was further washed with water 1 dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography using gradient elution from 0 EtOAc hexane to 30 EtOAc hexane to afford the title compounds as a pale yellow oil 2.55 g 66.8 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.73 d J 8.4 Hz 1 H 6.57 dd J 8.8 Hz J 2.6 Hz 1 H 6.42 d J 2.6 Hz 1 H 5.01 bs 1 H 4.45 s 1 H 3.51 3.44 m 1 H 2.92 2.85 m 1 H 1.89 1.87 m 1 H 1.47 s 9 H 1.06 1.01 m 1 H 0.92 0.90 m 1 H 0.75 0.72 m 1 H .

Step B trans 2 2 Hydroxy 5 trimethylacetoxyphenyl cyclopropylmethyl carbamic Acid tert Butyl Ester 15 . To a stirred solution of compound 14 1.01 g 3.62 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 10 mL was added pivaloyl chloride 0.489 mL 3.98 mmol and triethylamine 0.554 mL 3.98 mmol at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 6 h before water was added. The reaction mixture was extracted with CHCl 3 and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography using gradient elution from 0 EtOAc hexane to 30 EtOAc hexane to afford the title compounds as a brown oil 0.63 g 47.9 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.17 s 1 H 6.86 d J 8.4 Hz 1 H 6.77 dd J 8.8 Hz J 2.6 Hz 1 H 6.59 d J 2.6 Hz 1 H 5.05 m 1 H 3.52 3.45 m 1 H 2.92 2.85 m 2 H 1.47 s 9 H 1.33 s 9 H 1.08 1.03 m 1 H 0.92 0.90 m 1 H 0.74 0.72 m 1 H .

Step C trans 2 2 Cyclopropylmethyloxy 5 trimethylacetoxyphenyl cyclopropylmethyl carba mic Acid tert Butyl Ester 16 . A solution of compound 15 0.168 g 0.462 mmol bromomethyl cyclopropane 0.179 mL 1.85 mmol and KCO 0.256 g 1.85 mmol in DMF 0.5 mL was stirred at 60 C. for 24 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 2 and the combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography using gradient elution from 0 EtOAc hexane to 30 EtOAc hexane to afford the title compound as a colorless oil 0.150 g 78 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.83 6.75 m 2 H 6.64 d J 2.4 Hz 1 H 5.35 bs 1 H 4.01 3.97 m 1 H 3.74 3.67 m 2 H 2.68 2.63 m 1 H 1.88 1.83 m 1 H 1.45 1.41 m 10 H 1.33 s 9 H 1.05 1.02 m 2 H 0.80 0.78 m 1 H 0.68 0.66 m S6 2 H 0.39 0.36 m 2 H .

Step D trans 2 2 Cyclopropylmethyloxy 5 hydroxyphenyl cyclopropylmethyl carbamic Acid tert Butyl Ester 17 . A solution of compound 16 127 mg 0.304 mmol in MeOH 1 mL was treated with NaOtBu 146 mg 1.52 mmol at 0 C. After stirring at rt for 4 h the reaction was quenched adding sat. NHCl 2 mL and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography using gradient elution from 0 EtOAc hexane to 30 EtOAc hexane to afford the title compound as a thick oil 95 mg 94 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.68 6.60 m 2 H 6.48 6.44 m 2 H 5.48 bs 1H 3.94 3.90 m 1 H 3.70 3.65 m 2 H 2.64 2.60 m 1 H 1.84 1.81 m 1 H 1.45 1.39 m 10 H 0.98 0.95 m 2 H 0.76 0.73 m 1 H 6.64 6.62 m 2 H 0.35 0.34 m 2 H .

Step E Prepared by the same t Boc deprotection procedure as described for compound 12 35 mg 75 yield . HPLC purity 9.0 min 98.8 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 6.73 d J 8.8 Hz 1 H 6.56 dd J 8.8 Hz J 3.0 Hz 1 H 6.41 d J 3.0 Hz 1 H 3.85 3.73 m 2 H 3.05 2.97 m 2 H 2.13 2.07 m 1 H 1.31 1.22 m 2 H 1.13 1.11 m 1 H 1.02 0.99 m 1 H 0.65 0.60 m 2 H 0.34 0.36 m 2 H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 152.6 152.5 131.9 114.7 114.5 114.3 75.5 45.4 19.9 18.4 15.5 13.2 11.5 4.0 3.6. MS ESI m z 234.2 MH .

Step A trans S S 2 2 Cyclopropylmethyloxy 5 fluorophenyl cyclopropylmethyl carbamic Acid tert Butyl Ester 11 . Compound 11 5 g 18 mmol was separated by chiral HPLC Hexane i PrOH 96 4 isocratic stack injections flow rate of 12 mL min 280 nm using chiralpak AD column to afford the isomer with peak 1 2.4 g 48 yield and the isomer with peak 2 2.2 g 44 yield as colorless solids. 11 Chiral HPLC purity 16.8 min 99.1 . D 47.2 c 1.0 CHCl 11 Chiral HPLC purity 13.2 min 99.8 . D 45.9 c 1.0 CHCl .

Step B Refer to the procedure for the synthesis of compound 12 described above with substituting compound 11 2.18 g 6.50 mmol for compound 11 in Step C 1.5 g 85 yield . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 6.86 6.70 m 3 H 3.91 3.78 m 2 H 3.04 d J 7.2 Hz 2 H 2.18 2.12 m 1 H 1.32 1.28 m 1 H 1.16 1.02 m 2 H 0.64 0.62 m 2 H 0.39 0.37 m 2 H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 158.6 d 1 J CF 236.9 Hz 155.4 132.7 d 3 J CF 7.6 Hz 114.5 114.2 114.2 114.0 114.0 75.1 45.2 19.8 18.4 13.4 11.4 4.0 3.6. MS ESI m z 236.2 MH . D 5.4 c 1.0 MeOD .

Step A trans S S 2 2 Cyclopropylmethyloxy 5 hydroxyphenyl cyclopropylmethyl carbamic Acid tert Butyl Ester 17 . Compound 17 60 mg 0.144 mmol was separated by chiral HPLC Hexane i PrOH 87 13 isocratic stack injections flow rate of 12 mL min 280 nm using chiralpak AD column to afford the isomer with peak 1 27.6 mg 46 yield and the isomer with peak 2 28.2 mg 47 yield as colorless solids. 17 Chiral HPLC purity 21.9 min 99.7 . D 23.8 c 1.0 CHCl 3 17 Chiral HPLC purity 23.9 min 99.3 . D 21.5 c 1.0 CHCl .

Step B Refer to the procedure for the synthesis of compound 12 described above with substituting compound 17 27.6 mg 0.083 mmol for compound 11 in Step C 0.018 g 93 yield . HPLC purity 8.0 min 97.9 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 6.73 d J 8.8 Hz 1 H 6.56 dd J 8.8 Hz J 3.0 Hz 1 H 6.41 d J 3.0 Hz 1 H 3.85 3.73 m 2 H 3.05 2.97 m 2 H 2.13 2.07 m 1 H 1.31 1.22 m 2 H 1.13 1.11 m 1 H 1.02 0.99 m 1 H 0.65 0.60 m 2 H 0.34 0.36 m 2 H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 152.6 152.5 131.9 114.7 114.5 114.3 75.5 45.4 19.9 18.4 15.5 13.2 11.5 4.0 3.6. MS ESI m z 234.2 MH . D 18.5 c 1.0 MeOD .

In one embodiment the present invention relates to a method of treating an individual suffering from a disease or condition wherein agonism of 5 HT 2C receptors provides a benefit comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I to an individual in need thereof.

The methods described herein relate to the use of a compound of structural formula I and an optional second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein modulation of 5HT 2C receptor activity provides a benefit. The methods of the present invention can be accomplished by administering a compound of structural formula I as the neat compound or as a pharmaceutical composition. Administration of a pharmaceutical composition or a neat compound of structural formula I can be performed during or after the onset of the disease or condition of interest. Typically the pharmaceutical compositions are sterile and contain no toxic carcinogenic or mutagenic compounds that would cause an adverse reaction when administered.

In many embodiments a compound of structural formula I is administered in conjunction with a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of a disease or condition wherein modulation of 5 HT 2C receptors provides a benefit. The second therapeutic agent is different from the compound of structural formula I . A compound of structural formula I and the second therapeutic agent can be administered simultaneously or sequentially. In addition a compound of structural formula I and second therapeutic agent can be administered from a single composition or two separate compositions. A compound of structural formula I and the second therapeutic agent can be administered simultaneously or sequentially to achieve the desired effect.

The second therapeutic agent is administered in an amount to provide its desired therapeutic effect. The effective dosage range for each second therapeutic agent is known in the art and the second therapeutic agent is administered to an individual in need thereof within such established ranges.

The present invention therefore is directed to compositions and methods of treating diseases or conditions wherein modulation of 5 HT 2C receptors provides a benefit. The present invention also is directed to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of structural formula I and an optional second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein modulation of 5 HT 2C receptors provides a benefit. Further provided are kits comprising a compound of structural formula I and optionally a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein modulation of 5 HT 2C receptors provides a benefit packaged separately or together and an insert having instructions for using these active agents.

A compound of structural formula I and the second therapeutic agent can be administered together as a single unit dose or separately as multi unit doses wherein the compound of structural formula I is administered before the second therapeutic agent or vice versa. One or more dose of the compound of structural formula I and or one or more dose of the second therapeutic agent can be administered. The compounds of structural formula I therefore can be used in conjunction with one or more second therapeutic agent for example but not limited to known drugs to treat psychiatric disorders.

Within the meaning of the present invention the term disease or condition or disorder denotes disturbances and or anomalies that as a rule are regarded as being pathological conditions or functions and that can manifest themselves in the form of particular signs symptoms and or malfunctions. As demonstrated below a compound of structural formula I is a potent modulator of 5 HT 2C receptors and can be used in treating diseases and conditions wherein modulation of 5 HT 2C receptors provides a benefit.

Compounds of structural formula I therefore generally function as modulators agonists partial agonist antagonists partial antagonists as well as selective agonists of the 5 HT 2 family of receptors. More specifically the present compounds function as agonists of 5 HT 2 receptors. Even more specifically the present compounds invention function as agonists or selective agonists of the 5 HT 2C receptors. The compounds of structural formula I therefore can be used in the treatment of diseases conditions and disorders or amelioraton of undesired symptoms associated with the 5 HT 2C receptor.

Diseases conditions disorders symptoms associated with the 5 HT 2C receptor include among others obesity eating disorders diabetes cardiovascular disorders sleep disorders e.g. sleep apnea disorders of the central nervous system damage to the central nervous system e.g. trauma stroke or spinal cord injury gastrointestinal disorders depression atypical depression bipolar disorders anxiety disorders obsessive compulsive disorders social phobias or panic sexual dysfunction psychoses schizophrenia migraine other conditions associated with cephalic pain or other pain raised intracranial pressure epilepsy personality disorders Alzheimer s disease age related behavioral disorders behavioral disorders associated with dementia organic mental disorders mental disorders in childhood aggressivity age related memory disorders chronic fatigue syndrome drug and alcohol addiction bulimia anorexia nervosa and premenstrual tension.

5 HT 2C receptor associated disorders conditions diseases and symptoms that can be treated by compounds of structural formula I include among others obesity eating disorders e.g. hyperphagia bulimia or anorexia nervosa gastrointestinal disorders malfunction of gastrointestinal motility diabetes sleep disorders sleep apnea hypertension hypertension hyperlipidemia cardiovascular disease central nervous system disorders damage to the central nervous system associated with trauma stroke or spinal cord injury or complications psychiatric disorders obsessive compulsive disorder anxiety panic disorder schizophrenia schizoaffective disorder schizophreniform disorder L DOPA induced psychosis psychosis dementia memory deficit intellectual deficit associated with Alzheimer s disease bipolar disorders adjustment disorders depression movement disorders dystonia chronic pain Parkinson s Disease Alzheimer s Disease sexual dysfunction in males or females erectile dysfunction epilepsy headache and migraines. 5 HT 2C receptor agonists are particularly useful for treatment of obesity and comorbidities thereof including Type II diabetes cardiovascular disease hypertension hyperlipidemia stroke osteoarthritis sleep apnea gall bladder disease gout some cancers some infertility and early mortality.

5 HT 2C receptor agonists also are useful in the methods of decreasing food intake in an individual of inducing satiety in an individual of controlling weight gain of an individual and in generally providing benefit to individuals in the form of weight reduction.

Additional diseases and conditions associated with the 5 HT 2C receptor and treatable by a present compound are disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2008 0119477 and WO 2006 065600 each incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention provides methods of treating disorders diseases conditions and symptoms in a mammal and particularly in a human by administering to an individual in need of treatment or prophylaxis a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to the mammal in need thereof. The result of treatment can be partially or completely alleviating inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or relieving the disorder condition or one or more symptoms thereof. Administration includes any form of administration that is known in the art to be effective for a given type of disease or disorder is intended to encompass administration in any appropriate dosage form and further is intended to encompass administration of a compound pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or ester thereof alone or in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier thereof or administration of a prodrug derivative or analog of a compound of this invention which will form an equivalent amount of the active compound or substance within the body. An indivual in need of treatment or prophylaxsis includes those who have been diagnosed to have a given disorder or condition and to those who are suspected for example as a consequence of the display of certain symptoms of having such disorders or conditions.

In one preferred embodiment the present invention provides methods for treating the diseases and conditions disclosed above comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I .

In one embodiment the invention provides a method for treating the diseases and conditions disclosed above comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an amount of a compound of structural formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof sufficient to treat the condition. A composition of structural formula I can be used as the sole therapeutic agent or in combination with a second treatment for the condition.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating a disease or condition disclosed above comprising a administering to an individual in need thereof an amount of a compound of structural formula I and b administering to the individual an amount of a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of the disease or condition. The amounts administered are each effective to treat the disease or condition. In another embodiment the amounts are together effective to treat the disease or condition.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method for treating a disease or condition disclosed above said method comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a compound of structural formula I effective to treat the disease or condition.

In one embodiment a compound of structural formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered prior to the administration of the second therapeutic agent.

In another embodiment a compound of structural formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered adjunctively with the second therapeutic agent.

Suitable pharmaceutical agents that can be used in combination with the compounds of structural formula I include anti obesity agents such as apolipoprotein B secretion microsomal triglyceride transfer protein apo B MTP inhibitors MCR 4 agonists cholescystokinin A CCKA agonists serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors for example sibutramine sympathomimetic agensts adrenergic receptor agonists dopamine agonists for example bromocriptine melanocyte stimulating hormone receptor analogs cannabinoid 1 receptor antagonists for example SR141716 N piperidin 1 yl 5 4 chlorophenyl 1 2 4 dichlorophenyl 4 methyl 1H pyrazole 3 carboxamide melanin concentrating hormone antagonists leptons the OB protein leptin analogues leptin receptor agonists galanin antagonists lipase inhibitors such as tetrahydrolipstatin i.e. Orlistat anorectic agents such as a bombesin agonist Neuropeptide Y antagonists thyromimetic agents dehydroepiandrosterone or an analogue thereof glucocorticoid receptor agonists or antagonists orexin receptor antagonists urocortin binding protein antagonists glucagon like peptide 1 receptor agonists ciliary neutrotrophic factors such as Axokine human agouti related proteins AGRP ghrelin receptor antagonists histamine 3 receptor antagonists or reverse agonists neuromedin U receptor agonists noradrenergic anorectic agents for example phentermine mazindol and the like and appetite suppressants for example bupropion . In some embodiments the anti obesity agents are selected from the group consisting of orlistat sibutramine bromocriptine ephedrine leptin phentermine and pseudoephedrine.

Other anti obesity agents including the agents set forth above are well known or will be readily apparent in light of the instant disclosure to one of ordinary skill in the art.

It will be understood that the scope of combination therapy of the compounds of the present invention with other anti obesity agents anorectic agents appetite suppressant and related agents is not limited to those listed above but includes in principle any combination with any pharmaceutical agent or pharmaceutical composition useful for the treatment of overweight and obese individuals.

Other suitable pharmaceutical agents in addition to anti obesity agents that can be used in combination with the compounds of structural I include agents useful in the treatment of concomitant diseases. For example individuals that are over weight or obese increase their risk of morbidity and mortality arising from concomitant diseases such as but not limited to congestive heart failure type II diabetes atherosclerosis dyslipidemia hyperinsulinemia hypertension insulin resistance hyperglycemia retinopathy nephropathy and neuropathy. Treatment for one or more of the diseases cited herein include the use of one or more pharmaceutical agents known in the art belonging to the classes of drugs referred to but not limited to the following sulfonylureas meglitinides biguanides glucosidase inhibitors peroxisome proliferators activated receptor i.e. PPAR agonists insulin insulin analogues HMG CoA reductase inhibitors cholesterol lowering drugs for example fibrates that include fenofibrate bezafibrate gemfibrozil clofibrate and the like bile acid sequestrants which include cholestyramine colestipol and the like and niacin antiplatelet agents for example aspirin and adenosine diphosphate receptor antagonists that include clopidogrel ticlopidine and the like angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors angiotensin II receptor antagonists and adiponectin. In accordance to one aspect of the present invention a compound of the present can be used in combination with a pharmaceutical agent or agents belonging to one or more of the classes of drugs cited herein.

Some embodiments of the present invention include methods of treatment of a disease disorder or condition as described herein comprising administering to an individual in need of such treatment a therapeutically effect amount or dose of a compound of structural formula I in combination with at least one pharmaceutical agent selected from the group consisting of sulfonylureas meglitinides biguanides glucosidase inhibitors peroxisome proliferatorsactivated receptor i.e. PPAR agonists insulin insulin analogues HMG CoA reductase inhibitors cholesterol lowering drugs for example fibrates that include fenofibrate bezafibrate gemfibrozil clofibrate and the like bile acid sequestrants which include cholestyramine colestipol and the like and niacin antiplatelet agents for example aspirin and adenosine diphosphate receptor antagonists that include clopidogrel ticlopidine and the like angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors angiotensin II receptor antagonists and adiponectin.

Suitable pharmaceutical agents that can be used in conjunction with compounds of structural formula I include glucosidase inhibitors. Glucosidase inhibitors belong to the class of drugs which competitively inhibit digestive enzymes such as amylase maltase dextrinase sucrase etc. in the pancreas and or small intesting. The reversible inhibition by glucosidase inhibitors retard diminish or otherwise reduce blood glucose levels by delaying the digestion of starch and sugars. Some representative examples of glucosidase inhibitors include acarbose N 1 3 dihydroxy 2 propyl valiolamine generic name voglibose miglitol and glucosidase inhibitors known in the art.

Suitable pharmaceutical agents that can be used in conjunction with compounds of the present invention include sulfonylureas. The sulfonylureas SU are drugs which promote secretion of insulin from pancreatic 13 cells by transmitting signals of insulin secretion via SU receptors in the cell membranes. Examples of the sulfonylureas include glyburide glipizide glimepiride and other sulfonylureas known in the art.

Suitable pharmaceutical agents that can be used in conjunction with compounds of structural formula I include the meglitinides. The meglitinides target postprandial hyperglycemia and show comparable efficacy to sulfonylureas in reducing HbA. Examples of meglitinides include repaglinide nateglinide and other meglitinides known in the art.

Suitable pharmaceutical agents that can be used in conjunction with compounds of structural formula I include the biguanides. The biguanides represent a class of drugs that stimulate anaerobic glycolysis increase the sensitivity to insulin in the peripheral tissues inhibit glucose absorption from the intestine suppress of hepatic gluconeogenesis and inhibit fatty acid oxidation. Examples of biguanides include phenformin metformin buformin and biguanides known in the art.

Suitable pharmaceutical agents that can be used in conjunction with compounds of structural formula I include the glucosidase inhibitors. The glucosidase inhibitors competitively inhibit digestive enzymes such as amylase maltase dextrinase sucrase etc. in the pancreas and or small intestine. The reversible inhibition by glucosidase inhibitors retard diminish or otherwise reduce blood glucose levels by delaying the digestion of starch and sugars. Examples of glucosidase inhibitors include acarbose N 1 3 dihydroxy 2 propyl valiolamine generic name voglibose miglitol and glucosidase inhibitors known in the art.

Suitable pharmaceutical agents that can be used in conjunction with compounds of structural formula I include the peroxisome proliferators activated receptor i.e. PPAR agonists. The peroxisome proliferators activated receptor agonists represent a class of compounds that activates the nuclear receptor PPAR and therefore regulate the transcription of insulin responsive genes involved in the control of glucose production transport and utilization. Agents in the class also facilitate the regulation of fatty acid metabolism. Examples of PPAR agonists include rosiglitazone pioglitazone tesaglitazar netoglitazone GW 409544 GW 501516 and PPAR agonists known in the art.

Suitable pharmaceutical agents that can be used in conjunction with compounds of structural formula I include the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors. The HMG CoA reductase inhibitors are agents also referred to as Statin compounds that belong to a class of drugs that lower blood cholesterol levels by inhibiting hydroxymethylglutalyl CoA HMG CoA reductase. HMG CoA reductase is the rate limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis. The statins lower serum LDL concentrations by upregulating the activity of LDL receptors and are responsible for clearing LDL from the blood. Some representative examples the statin compounds include rosuvastatin pravastatin and its sodium salt simvastatin lovastatin atorvastatin fluvastatin cerivastatin rosuvastatin pitavastatin BMS s superstatin and HMG CoA reductase inhibitors known in the art.

Suitable pharmaceutical agents that can be used in conjunction with compounds of the present invention include the angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors. The angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors belong to the class of drugs that partially lower blood glucose levels as well as lowering blood pressure by inhibiting angiotensin converting enzymes. Examples of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors include captopril enalapril alacepril delapril ramipril lisinopril imidapril benazepril ceronapril cilazapril enalaprilat fosinopril moveltopril perindopril quinapril spirapril temocapril trandolapril and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors known in the art.

Suitable pharmaceutical agents that can be used in conjunction with compounds of the present invention include the angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists target the angiotensin II receptor subtype 1 i.e. AT1 and demonstrate a beneficial effect on hypertension. Examples of angiotensin II receptor antagonists include losartan and the potassium salt form and angiotensin II receptor antagonists known in the art.

Other treatments for one or more of the diseases cited herein include the use of pharmaceutical agents known in the art belonging to the classes of drugs referred to but not limited to the following amylin agonists for example pramlintide insulin secretagogues for example GLP 1 agonists exendin 4 insulinotropin NN2211 dipeptyl peptidase inhibitors for example NVP DPP 728 acyl CoA cholesterol acetyltransferase inhibitors for example Ezetimibe eflucimibe and like compounds cholesterol absorption inhibitors for example ezetimibe pamaqueside and like compounds cholesterol ester transfer protein inhibitors for example CP 529414 JTT 705 CETi 1 and like compounds microsomal triglyceride transfer protein inhibitors for example implitapide and like compounds cholesterol modulators for example NO 1886 and like compounds bile acid modulators for example GT103 279 and like compounds and squalene synthase inhibitors.

Squalene synthesis inhibitors belong to a class of drugs that lower blood cholesterol levels by inhibiting synthesis of squalene. Examples of the squalene synthesis inhibitors include S Bis 2 2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy methoxy phosphinyl 3 phenoxybenzenebutanesulfonic acid mono potassium salt BMS 188494 and squalene synthesis inhibitors known in the art.

In the present method a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compound of structural formula I typically formulated in accordance with pharmaceutical practice is administered to a human being in need thereof. Whether such a treatment is indicated depends on the individual case and is subject to medical assessment diagnosis that takes into consideration signs symptoms and or malfunctions that are present the risks of developing particular signs symptoms and or malfunctions and other factors.

A compound of structural formula I can be administered by any suitable route for example by oral buccal inhalation topical topical ophthalmic intranasal intrabronchial sublingual rectal vaginal intracisternal or intrathecal through lumbar puncture transurethral nasal percutaneous i.e. transdermal or parenteral including intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intracoronary intradermal intramammary intraperitoneal intraarticular intrathecal retrobulbar intrapulmonary injection and or surgical implantation at a particular site administration. Parenteral administration can be accomplished using a needle and syringe or using a high pressure technique.

Pharmaceutical compositions include those wherein a compound of structural formula I is present in a sufficient amount to be administered in an effective amount to achieve its intended purpose. The exact formulation route of administration and dosage is determined by an individual physician in view of the diagnosed condition or disease. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to provide levels of a compound of structural formula I that is sufficient to maintain therapeutic effects.

Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of the compounds of structural formula I can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals e.g. for determining the LD the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the ED the dose therapeutically effective in 50 of the population . The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index which is expressed as the ratio between LDand ED. Compounds that exhibit high therapeutic indices are preferred. The data obtained from such data can be used in formulating a dosage range for use in humans. The dosage preferably lies within a range of circulating compound concentrations that include the EDwith little or no toxicity. The dosage can vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized. Determination of a therapeutically effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art especially in light of the detailed disclosure provided herein.

A therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I required for use in therapy varies with the nature of the disease or condition being treated the length of time that activity is desired and the age and the condition of the patient and ultimately is determined by the attendant physician. Dosage amounts and intervals can be adjusted individually to provide plasma levels of a compound structural formula I that are sufficient to maintain the desired therapeutic effects. The desired dose conveniently can be administered in a single dose or as multiple doses administered at appropriate intervals for example as one two three four or more subdoses per day. Multiple doses often are desired or required. For example a compound of structural formula I can be administered at a frequency of four doses delivered as one dose per day at four day intervals q4d 4 four doses delivered as one dose per day at three day intervals q3d 4 one dose delivered per day at five day intervals qd 5 one dose per week for three weeks qwk3 five daily doses with two days rest and another five daily doses 5 2 5 or any dose regimen determined to be appropriate for the circumstance.

The dosage of a composition containing a compound of structural formula I or a composition containing the same can be from about 1 ng kg to about 200 mg kg about 1 g kg to about 100 mg kg or about 1 mg kg to about 50 mg kg of body weight. The dosage of a composition may be at any dosage including but not limited to about 1 g kg 10 g kg 25 g kg 50 g kg 75 g kg 100 g kg 125 g kg 150 g kg 175 g kg 200 g kg 225 g kg 250 g kg 275 g kg 300 g kg 325 g kg 350 g kg 375 g kg 400 g kg 425 g kg 450 g kg 475 g kg 500 g kg 525 g kg 550 g kg 575 g kg 600 g kg 625 g kg 650 g kg 675 g kg 700 g kg 725 g kg 750 g kg 775 g kg 800 g kg 825 g kg 850 g kg 875 g kg 900 g kg 925 g kg 950 g kg 975 g kg 1 mg kg 5 mg kg 10 mg kg 15 mg kg 20 mg kg 25 mg kg 30 mg kg 35 mg kg 40 mg kg 45 mg kg 50 mg kg 60 mg kg 70 mg kg 80 mg kg 90 mg kg 100 mg kg 125 mg kg 150 mg kg 175 mg kg or 200 mg kg. The above dosages are exemplary of the average case but there can be individual instances in which higher or lower dosages are merited and such are within the scope of this invention. In practice the physician determines the actual dosing regimen that is most suitable for an individual patient which can vary with the age weight and response of the particular patient.

A compound of structural formula I used in a method of the present invention typically is administered in an amount of about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams per dose about 0.05 to about 250 milligrams per dose or about 0.5 to about 100 milligrams per dose. For example a compound of structural formula I can be administered per dose in an amount of about 0.005 0.05 0.5 5 10 20 30 40 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 or 500 milligrams including all doses between 0.005 and 500 milligrams.

The compounds of the present invention typically are administered in admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier selected with regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice. Pharmaceutical compositions for use in accordance with the present invention are formulated in a conventional manner using one or more physiologically acceptable carriers comprising excipients and auxiliaries that facilitate processing of compounds of structural formula I .

The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant or excipient with which a compound of structural formula I is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like. The carriers can be saline gum acacia gelatin starch paste talc keratin colloidal silica urea and the like. In addition auxiliary stabilizing thickening lubricating and coloring agents can be used. The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are sterile. Water is a preferred carrier when a compound of structural formula I is administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers also include excipients such as starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. The present compositions if desired can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents.

These pharmaceutical compositions can be manufactured for example by conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making emulsifying encapsulating entrapping or lyophilizing processes. Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen. When a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I is administered orally the composition typically is in the form of a tablet capsule powder solution pill granule tincture emulsion syrup or elixir. When administered in tablet form the composition additionally can contain a solid carrier such as a gelatin or an adjuvant. The tablet capsule and powder contain about 0.01 to about 95 and preferably from about 1 to about 50 of a compound of structural formula I . When administered in liquid form a liquid carrier such as water petroleum or oils of animal or plant origin can be added. The liquid form of the composition can further contain physiological saline solution dextrose or other saccharide solutions or glycols. When administered in liquid form the composition contains about 0.1 to about 90 and preferably about 1 to about 50 by weight of a compound of structural formula I .

When a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I is administered by intravenous cutaneous or subcutaneous injection the composition is in the form of a pyrogen free parenterally acceptable aqueous solution. The preparation of such parenterally acceptable solutions having due regard to pH isotonicity stability and the like is within the skill in the art. A preferred composition for intravenous cutaneous or subcutaneous injection typically contains an isotonic vehicle. A compound of structural formula I can be infused with other fluids over a 10 30 minute span or over several hours.

Compounds of structural formula I can be readily combined with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the active agents to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by adding the compound of structural formula I to a solid excipient optionally grinding the resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients include for example fillers and cellulose preparations. If desired disintegrating agents can be added.

A compound of structural formula I can be formulated for parenteral administration by injection e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion. Formulations for injection can be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampules or in multidose containers with an added preservative. The compositions can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulating agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

Pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions of the active agent in water soluble form. Additionally suspensions of a compound of structural formula I can be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils or synthetic fatty acid esters. Aqueous injection suspensions can contain substances which increase the viscosity of the suspension. Optionally the suspension also can contain suitable stabilizers or agents that increase the solubility of the compounds and allow for the preparation of highly concentrated solutions. Alternatively a present composition can be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use.

A compound of structural formula I also can be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases. In addition to the formulations described previously a compound of structural formula I also can be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Thus for example the compounds of structural formula I can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins.

In particular the compounds of structural formula I can be administered orally buccally or sublingually in the form of tablets containing excipients such as starch or lactose or in capsules or ovules either alone or in admixture with excipients or in the form of elixirs or suspensions containing flavoring or coloring agents. Such liquid preparations can be prepared with pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as suspending agents. The compounds of structural formula I also can be injected parenterally for example intravenously intramuscularly subcutaneously or intracoronarily. For parenteral administration the compounds of structural formula I are best used in the form of a sterile aqueous solution which can contain other substances for example salts or monosaccharides such as mannitol or glucose to make the solution isotonic with blood.

Compounds of structural formula I were prepared and assayed for an ability to modulate the activity of the 5 HT 2 family of receptors. In particular compounds 50 53 were prepared and assayed to determine effects on the 5 HT 2 family of receptors. The results are summarized in Table 1.

The data show that compounds 50 and 51 show no activity at 5 HT 2A and 5 HT 2B receptors while modulating the 5 HT 2C receptors.

Compounds 12 and 18 including the and enantiomers also were tested for their effect on the 5 HT 2 family of receptors. The functional activity of these compounds was determined by measuring G q mediated intracellular calcium mobilization in HEK 293 cells stably expressing the human 5 HT 2A human 5 HT 2B and human 5 HT 2C INI receptors 18 . The results are summarized in Table 2.

In the functional assays racemic compound 12 was found not to activate either the 5 HT 2A or 5 HT 2B receptors and to have an ECof 254 nM at the 5 HT 2C receptor. The more active enantiomer 12 also showed a selectivity profile in these in vitro functional assays. In contrast the less active isomer 12 had an ECof about 2.4 M in the 5 HT 2C assay.

For comparison purposes the 5 HT 2C ligand Lorcaserin 2 which is in Phase III clinical trials for obesity was tested. Compound 2 has a low nM potency at the 5 HT 2C receptor. However it is also fairly active at the 5 HT 2B subtype with an ECof 124 nM and an Eof 92 . Accordingly valvulopathy may be induced by compound 2. Three other known 5 HT 2C agonists Vabicaserin 3 and the Way compounds 4 and 5 along with 5 HT also were included in the assays for reference purposes. The pharmacological profile shown by compound WAY 629 5 is similar to that shown by compound 12.

In order to further characterize the pharmacology of both 12 and 18 which show minimal 5 HT 2B activation the compounds were tested for their ability to function as 5 HT 2B antagonists. Compounds 12 and 18 were found to shift the concentration curve of 5 HT in calcium flux experiments rightwards without depressing the maximal 5 HT response indicating fast binding kinetics. Schild analyses yielded pA2 SEM values of 5.50 0.06 5.79 0.07 and 5.92 0.02 respectively n 3 . These results show that the tested compounds act as moderate potency full antagonists at the 5 HT 2B receptor.

On the basis of their in vitro pharmacology enantiomers 12 and 18 were subjected to further in vivo studies. Specifically the ability of these compounds to normalize disrupted prepulse inhibition PPI in PCP treated animals was tested. PPI is a neuropsychiatric animal model in which a weaker prestimulus the prepulse is able to inhibit the reaction of an animal to a subsequent much stronger startling stimulus or pulse . Typically the stimulus that is used in such studies is a sound units in decibells or dB but other stimuli such as touch light or a puff of air can be used. The reduction in the strength of the startle response is indicative of the ability of the nervous system to temporarily adapt to a strong sensory stimulus when an earlier weaker signal is given to warn the organism. While the extent to which the organism is able to adjust to the stimulus affects a host of physiological systems it is generally convenient to measure any changes in the muscular reactions in order to gauge the effects of a drug on PPI. It is well known that schizophrenics often show a disruption of the PPI response as a consequence of so called sensory flooding and thus their inability to filter out unimportant information. Swerdlow et al. 1994 51 2 139 154 .

The ability of the present 5 HT 2C ligands to normalize the effects of phencyclidine PCP an NMDA receptor antagonist induced disruption of PPI in mice was tested. This PCP model is a well accepted model of atypical antipsychotic activity 19 20 and has been used previously to characterize the antipsychotic activity of 5 HT 2C agonists 21 . The ability of compounds 12 and 18 as well as vabicaserin 3 as the reference compound to normalize PCP 6 mg kg disrupted PPI was tested. It was found that both 12 and 18 were able to normalize PCP disrupted PPI at doses of 10 mg kg and are comparable in activity to vabicaserin. At the 5 mg kg dose level 12 and vabicaserin are still effective.

Cytochrome P 450 screening metabolic stability studies and hERG assays also were performed on compound 12. The data are summarized in Tables 3 5. In the recombinant CYP inhibition test compound 12 showed relatively low inhibition against CYP2C9 19.55 CYP2D6 26.97 and CYP3A4 21.68 and 25.13 using midazolam and testosterone as the substrates respectively at 10 M. Furthermore compound 12 had an acceptable microsomal stability compared with the control drug verapamil Table 4 and showed no activity in the hERG assay at concentrations of 5 and 10 M.

Calcium Flux Assays. Calcium flux assays were performed essentially as described earlier N. H. Jensen et al. . 2008 33 2303 2312. HEK 293 cells stably expressing the human 5 HT 2A 5 HT 2B or 5 HT 2C receptor were seeded and incubated for 20 h in serum free DMEM containing 50 U mL penicillin and 50 g mL streptomycin sulfate in tissue culture treated black clear bottom 384 well plates Greiner Germany plates were coated with 20 L well of 50 mg L poly L lysine Sigma P 1524 in PBS. The cells were preincubated for 75 min at 37 C. in a humidified incubator with 20 L of reconstituted fura 4 based calcium dye Calcium Plus Assay Kit Molecular Devices in assay buffer Hanks balanced salt solution containing calcium and magnesium Invitrogen 14065 056 50 mM HEPES 2.5 mM probenecid 100 mg L ascorbic acid pH 7.4 . The plates were allowed to cool to rt over 10 min and were transferred to a FLIPR Tetra fluorescence image plate reader Molecular Devices . The test compounds in 15 L assay buffer were automatically added and fluorescence excitation 470 495 nm emission 515 575 nm was measured every second for 3 min. The baseline was averaged from ten data points immediately before the additions and results were exported as the maximal response over baseline during 60 s after addition. Compounds were measured at seven concentrations from 10 M to 10 M in triplicate. ECvalues and Evalues were obtained from nonlinear curve fitting against a sigmoidal dose response model using Prism Graphpad .

Prepulse Inhibition Animal Study. Pre pulse inhibition PPI testing and analysis was performed as described previously A. I. Abbas et al. 2009 29 7124 36. Adult male and female C57BL 6J mice Jackson Labs Bar Harbor Me. ages 8 to 12 weeks were used in all experiments. Mice were pre administered vehicle 0.9 Saline 10 ml kg i.p. or increasing doses of 12 18 or vabicaserin 3 and returned to their home cage. 30 minutes later animals were administered phencyclindine 6 mg kg i.p. and immediately placement into the PPI apparatus SR Lab Startle Response System San Diego Instruments . After 5 min acclimation to 62 dB white noise animals were administered 74 acoustic test trials beginning and ending with 5 trials each of startle only stimuli 40 msec 120 dB white noise burst . The remaining 64 trials were randomized between the following trial types 8 startle only trails 8 trials without any stimuli null trials 16 trials with prepulse stimuli 4 8 12 and 16 dB above the 62 dB background 4 of each intensity 20 msec in length that were not paired with startle stimuli prepulse only trials and 32 trials of prepulse stimuli 4 8 12 and 16 dB above the 62 dB background 8 at each intensity paired with the 120 dB startle stimulus given 100 msec following the onset of the prepulse stimulus. Trials were separated by a variable interval 8 15 sec and total test time lasted 26 30 min for each animal. The formula used to calculate percentage PPI was 100 startle after prepulse startle without prepulse 100 . The data were analyzed with SR LAB programs and are presented as means standard error of the mean. A repeated measures ANOVA using Graphpad Prism 5.0 was used to examine the effects of test compounds on prepulse dependent PPI with prepulse intensity 4 8 12 and 16 dB as the within subjects effect and compound and dose as the between subjects effects dose nested within compound . Differences between treatment groups were determined with Bonferroni corrected pair wise comparisons. In all cases p

Inhibition of CYP Isozymes. For each of the inhibition assays the following was used MgCl 20 L 50 mM solution phosphate buffer 100 L 100 mM solution water 38 L recombinant enzyme 20 L 200 M solution and 1 L of one of the following substrates tolbutamide 40 mM for CYP2C9 dextrometorphane 2 mM for CYP2D6 or midazolam 1 mM for CYP3A4 and testosterone 10 mM for CYP3A4 . The final concentration of test compound is 10 M. The mixture was pre heated to 37 C. for two minutes after which the reaction was initiated by the addition of NADPH 20 L 10 mM . The reaction was heated at 37 C. for 5 for CYP3A4 or 20 minutes CYP 2D9 and CYP2D6 and terminated by the addition of MeCN 0.6 mL . Samples were centrifuged 16000 rpm 10 min and 200 L aliquots were taken for LC MS MS analysis. Separation of the sample components was performed on a Waters ACQUITY UPLC C18 2.1 mm 50 mm column using mobile phase mixtures between 0.1 formic acid in MeCN and 0.1 formic acid in water elution rate 0.5 mL min column temperature 25 C. . The following instrument settings were used Collision temperature 500 C. ionspray voltage 5500 V for CYP2C9 hydroxytolbutamied determined Q1 287.2 Q3 188.1 DP 86 V EP 8 V CE 18 V CXP 11 V for CYP 2D6 dextrophan determined Q1 259.2 Q3 158.2 DP 84 V EP 9 V CE 52 V CXP 8 V for CYP3A4 1 Hydroxymidazolam determined Q1 343.2 Q3 325.0 DP 100 V EP 10 V CE 29 V CXP 21 V and 6 Hydroxytestosterone Q1 305.2 Q3 269.1 DP 70 V EP 8 V CE 22 V CXP 16V.

Stability in Liver Microsomes. For each sample to be investigated the following was mixed microsomes 50 L 0.5 mg mL MgClsolution 50 L 50 mM phosphate buffer 250 L 100 mM water 95 L test compound 12 5 L 200 M . Verapamil was tested as a positive control. The reaction was performed at 37 C. and initiated by the addition of NADPH 50 L 10 mM or for the negative control by the addition of water 50 L . Aliquots of 50 L were taken form the solution after 0 15 30 45 and 60 minutes and the reaction stopped by the addition of 150 L cold methanol to the aliquot. The samples were centrifuged 16000 rpm 10 min . 100 L supernatant was used for LC MS MS investigation. All incubations were performed in duplicate. Separation of the sample components was performed on a Waters ACQUITY UPLC C18 2.1 mm 50 mm column using mobile phase mixtures between 0.1 formic acid in MeCN and 0.1 formic acid in water elution rate 0.5 mL min column temperature 25 C. . The following instrument settings were used Collision temperature 500 C. ionspray voltage 5500 V. The in vitro half life was calculated as in vitro t 0.693 k where k is the slope determined by linear regression of the peak area of the parent drug vs. incubation time curve. The in vitro intrinsic clearance in vitro CL was calculated according to in vitro CL 0.693 t volume of incubation L amount of proteins mg .

hERG Assays. Compounds were screened for hERG inhibition at 1 M and 10 M using HEK 293 cells stably expressing the human hERG channel with the FluxOR thallium assay kit Invitrogen using a FLIPR Tetra fluorescence image plate reader Molecular Devices . Cisapride at 1 M and 10 M was used as the reference standard IC 490 nM . Compounds with 25 inhibition were validated using a PatchXpress 7000A automated parallel planar patch clamp system at 32 nM 32 M. H. Zeng et al. . 2008 6 235 41 .

Prior 5 HT 2C agonists possessed properties that hindered their development as therapeutic agents. In accordance with an important feature of the present invention compounds of structural formula I were synthesized and evaluated as inhibitors for agonists for 5 HT 2C antagonist. The compounds of structural formula I are potent agonists of 5 HT 2C receptors and are inert with respect to 5 HT 2B and 5 HT 2A receptors. In some embodiments a compound of structural formula I is a 5 HT 2B receptor antagonist.

