---

title: High surface area carbon materials and methods for making same
abstract: In a method of making a high surface area carbon material, a precursor organic material is prepared. The precursor organic material is subjected to a first elevated temperature while applying a gaseous purge thereto for a first predetermined time. The precursor organic material is subjected to a second elevated temperature while not applying the gaseous purge thereto for a second predetermined time after the first predetermined time. A high surface area carbon material includes carbon and has a surface area in a range between 3029 m/g to 3565 m/g and a pore volume in a range between 1.66 cm/g and 1.90 cm/g. The high surface area carbon material may be employed in an electrode for a supercapacitor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09640333&OS=09640333&RS=09640333
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09640333
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131001
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 709 292 filed Oct. 3 2012 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. FA9550 09 1 0150 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to methods of making carbon materials and more specifically to methods of making high surface area carbon materials.

One of the outstanding challenges in the field of supercapacitors is to achieve high energy density. To increase energy density in a supercapacitor electrodes will require higher surface areas with controlled pore size distributions thereby promoting massive charge accumulation near the electrode electrolyte interfaces. The greatest advantage of supercapacitors over batteries is that they have high power density enabling them to be charged in fraction of the time required to charge batteries. Some of the present applications of supercapacitors include harvesting kinetic energy to store breaking energy in hybrid vehicles and load leveling i.e. delivering power above the average value when needed and to store excess power when the demand is below average. Improvements in energy density of supercapacitors could lead to widespread use where high energy density along with very high charge and discharge rates is required e.g. in such applications as aerospace industrial transportation utility and consumer electronics.

Supercapacitors are also known as electric double layer capacitors EDLC or ultracapacitors. In EDLC on application of voltage across its electrodes charge accumulates in the form of ions at the surface of electrodes forming an electrode electrolyte double layer. Energy density of EDLC can be increased by increasing the charge at the surface which depends on the accessible surface area to these ions. High surface area electrodes promote massive charge accumulation. Some of the other factors contributing to EDLC energy density are pore size choice of electrolyte and electrode materials. Micro pores with a pore diameter of 

Polyacrylonitrile PAN based activated carbons are generally amorphous carbon with high surface area and good adsorption capacity. The activation process for PAN can be achieved by either physical or chemical approaches. Chemical activation tends to generate predominantly micro pores with narrow pore size distribution whereas physical activation tends to generate predominantly micro and meso pores with wide pore size distribution.

Current methods of generating carbonaceous materials through activating PAN materials results in surface areas below 2300 m g and relatively low pore volumes. However in applications such as supercapacitors batteries fuel cells gas absorption and catalysts surface areas of greater than 3000 m g would be highly desirable.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a method of making a high surface area carbon material in which a precursor organic material is prepared. The precursor organic material is subjected to a first elevated temperature while applying a gaseous purge thereto for a first predetermined time. The precursor organic material is subjected to a second elevated temperature while not applying the gaseous purge thereto for a second predetermined time after the first predetermined time.

In another aspect the invention is a high surface area carbon material comprising carbon and having a surface area in a range between 3029 m g to 3565 m g and a pore volume in a range between 1.66 cm g and 1.90 cm g.

In yet another aspect the invention is a supercapacitor that includes a first electrode and a second electrode. The first electrode includes a conductor layer and a surface layer applied to the conductor layer. The surface layer includes a porous carbon material having a surface area in a range between 3029 m g to 3565 m g and a pore volume in a range between 1.66 cm g and 1.90 cm g. The second electrode is disposed oppositely from the first electrode and includes a conductor layer and a surface layer applied to the conductor layer. The surface layer includes a porous carbon material having a surface area in a range between 3029 m g to 3565 m g and a pore volume in a range between 1.66 cm g and 1.90 cm g. A membrane separates the 1st electrode from the 2d electrode and an electrolyte is disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode so as to be in chemical communication with the first surface layer and the second surface layer.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

As shown in in one embodiment of a method for making a high surface area carbon material a precursor is prepared . Typically an organic polymer such as polyacrylonitrle co methacrylate PAN is employed. In one example homopolymer PAN is used and in another example copolymer PAN is used. Examples of copolymers include but are not limited to polyacrylonitrile co methacrylic acid polyacrylonitrile co methyl acrylate polyacrylonitrile co itaconic acid polyacrylonitrile co itaconic acid co methacrylic acid polyacrylonitrile co methyl methacarylate. In one example a PAN powder is used and in another example a PAN film is used. A first precursor stabilization with an air purge is performed. A second precursor stabilization without the air purge is performed. In one example both the first precursor stabilization step and the second precursor stabilization step were performed at 285 C. In the first precursor stabilization with an air purge air is introduced into the reaction chamber and in the second precursor stabilization without the air purge no air is added to the reaction chamber but any gasses that form during this step are allowed to vent out of the chamber.

In one experimental embodiment 300 mg of PAN was dissolved in 30 mL DMF in other examples one several other solvents may be used such as DMAc or DMSO at 80 C. for one hour. The material was cast as a film on a hot 80 C. glass substrate for about 12 hours at a 15 psi vacuum. The film was separated from the glass and dried at 80 C. for 48 hours resulting in a film having a thickness of about 25 m. In one embodiment the first stabilization step included subjecting such a PAN film to an air purge for 10 hours and then a second stabilization step subjecting the PAN film to an environment without an air purge for 6 more hours both at 285 C. In another embodiment the first stabilization step included subjecting such a PAN film to an air purge for 16 hours and then a second stabilization step subjecting the PAN film to an environment without an air purge for 6 more hours both at 285 C. In yet another embodiment the first stabilization step included subjecting such a PAN powder to an air purge for 16 hours and then a second stabilization step subjecting the PAN powder to an environment without an air purge for 6 more hours both at 285 C. The thus stabilized materials were then soaked in 6M KOH for 24 hours and the resulting KOH soaked materials were activated at 800 C. for 1 hour in an inert Ar environment in which the heating rate from room temperature to 800 C. was 5 C. per minute . The resulting activated materials were washed in boiling water four times and dried at 80 C. in a vacuum oven for 24 hours. The surface area of this carbon material was measured by nitrogen gas absorption in a range from 3029 m g to 3565 m g. In other experimental embodiments the activated carbon materials were prepared into two different forms film and powder . PAN films were stabilized at different residence time to investigate the effect on the surface area and pore structure further on the resulting electrochemical properties. The surface area and pore structure analysis for the activated carbon materials were done by nitrogen gas adsorption desorption at 77K using ASAP 2020 Micromeritics Inc . For the analysis the activated carbon materials were degassed at 90 C. for 16 hours. BET Brunauer Emmet and Teller analysis for surface area and density functional theory DFT analysis for pore volume and pore size distribution were conducted.

In one embodiment the stabilized precursor material is soaked in a KOH solution or other ionic solution for a predetermined amount of time such as 24 hours to impregnate the stabilized precursor material with KOH ions . The material is then activated by subjecting it to an elevated temperature e.g. 800 C. for an amount of time e.g. 1 hour to remove volatile components from the now carbonized material. The high surface area carbon is then washed e.g. in boiling water and dried e.g. at 80 C. in a vacuum for 24 hours . At this stage the material is now high surface area carbon.

As shown in the precursor material is carbonized without KOH impregnation and then activated by subjecting it to an elevated temperature e.g. 800 C. for an amount of time e.g. 1 hour .

A resulting carbon structure is shown schematically in and an x ray diffraction measurement of a KOH activated high surface area carbon powder is shown in . As can be seen this measurement shows no diffraction 2 peak corresponding to graphite spacing which indicates that there is no substantial graphene stacking in the structure.

In the embodiment shown in carbonaceous powder was also made by stabilizing PAN powder at 285 C. heating 1 C. min. for 16 hours in the presence of air and 6 hours after air purging stopped . Stabilized powder was carbonized at 1100 C. heating from room temperature to 1100 C. at 5 C. min. in the presence of argon. Such carbonized PAN powder demonstrated a BET surface area 2298 m g. This carbonaceous material did not demonstrate the presence of micro pores 

As shown in the high surface area carbon produced by this method can be used in electrodes employed in supercapacitors and other applications requiring high surface area materials. In one embodiment of the supercapacitor application the electrodes include a layer of 0.75 mg of carbon nanotubes CNTs a layer of 4 mg activated PAN powder mixed with 1.0 mg of CNTs a layer of 0.25 mg of CNTs and a layer of cellulose filter paper . The electrodes are disposed oppositely from each other and an electrolyte such as a KOH solution is disposed between the electrodes .

While the as prepared activated PAN films were used directly as electrodes for a supercapacitor cell the activated PAN powder based electrode was prepared using CNTs to improve electrical conductivity and to improve the structural integrity of the activated PAN powder . The CNTs were sonicated in DMF for 24 hours at the concentration of 1 mg 300 mL and the activated PAN powder was mixed with CNT dispersion activated PAN powder CNT 4 1 by weight by sonication for 30 minutes. Then the dispersion was filtered using cellulose filter paper 1 m pore size . Before use as an electrode the activated PAN powder CNT film was vacuum dried at 100 C. for 4 days.

In one experimental embodiment the prepared electrodes were separated by a non conducting porous polypropylene membrane Celgard 3400 0.117 0.042 m and sandwiched between nickel current collectors. The electrodes and membrane were soaked in the electrolyte solution for 30 min prior to cell assembly. For the activated PAN film based electrode either aqueous KOH 6 M or an ionic organic BMIMBF AN liquid were used as an electrolyte whereas ionic liquid EMIMBFwas used for the activated PAN powder CNT based electrode embodiment.

In experimental embodiments chemical activation using KOH was adopted for various PAN materials film and powder leading to the average pore size of 2.5 nm with surface area exceeding 3500 m g. In addition electrolytes for supercapacitors have a wide operating voltage range and remain stable at high temperature. Ionic liquids provided wide voltage range and stability at higher temperature than aqueous electrolytes. Therefore different types of ionic liquid electrolytes BMIMBFand EMIMBF were also used in these embodiments along with KOH aqueous electrolyte. The electrode made from the high surface area carbonaceous fragments exhibited highest density which was measured to be in a range of 40 Wh kg to 100 Wh kg when using EMIMBF .

In various embodiments high surface area carbon materials exhibited surface areas in the range of between 3029 m g to 3565 m g and pore volumes of between 1.66 cm g to 1.90 cm g with micro pore percentages of between 31 to 38 and meso pore percentages of between 62 to 68 .

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

