---

title: Method and system for associating a social networking identifier with a network subscriber account
abstract: An approach for enabling delivery and presentment of service provider notification messages to a subscribed user via a social networking service of the user is described. An integration platform determines whether a network identifier for accessing a social networking service via a communication network is associated with subscriber account information maintained by the communication service provider. The integration platform also generates a request for linking a social networking identifier associated with the social networking service with the subscriber account information based on the determination. The integration platform further initiates a rendering of a notification message received from the communication service provider to a user interface of the social networking service based on acceptance of the request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09178844&OS=09178844&RS=09178844
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09178844
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130123
---
Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been providing users with convenient access to service related notification messages. Typically users subscribed with the service provider utilize the network to access services such as social networking services and shared media platforms to communicate with friends family and acquaintances. The users may also access subscriber related notification messages such as billing notices or product offers by way of a customer service portal. Unfortunately each of these different services or portals is independent and therefore requires an individual login in order to be accessed by the user.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for enabling delivery and presentment of service provider notification messages to a subscribed user via a social networking service of the user.

An apparatus method and software for enabling delivery and presentment of service provider notification messages to a subscribed user via a social networking service of the user is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In this example users subscribed to the network can utilize the different services to communicate and exchange data e.g. photos media with friends family and acquaintances. In addition the users may also occasionally access billing notices account information product offers and the like as related to the provider of the network by way of e.g. an online customer portal or via an email service. Hence relevant information pertaining to the user from the provider is accessed independently from the services the user often employs. Resultantly the user must perform a separate login to access the different services or portals which requires additional time and effort on the part of the user. Unfortunately there is currently no convenient means of enabling delivery and presentment of service provider notification messages to a subscribed user via a social networking service frequently employed by the user.

To address this issue system presents an integration platform that operates in connection with user devices to support the integrating or associating of messages generated by a provider of a service provider network with designated services referred to herein collectively as services . By way of example the integration platform the integration platform enables the service i.e. a social networking service and subscription information to the network to be seamlessly linked during normal use of the service . In addition the integration platform supports execution of one or more application programming interfaces APIs for rendering the messages via a user interface of a service of the user. By way of these approaches limited user interaction is required for supporting the rendering of provider based notification messages via a service of the user. Furthermore this eliminates the need for the user to access or login to a separate customer portal or other service in order to retrieve relevant provider notification messages.

In one embodiment the integration platform facilitates a permanent linking of the subscriber profile maintained by the provider of the network with the profile maintained by the service . The linking is based on a common user i.e. the user of the network is also a registered user of a service . For the purpose of illustration the services are described herein as social networking services.

In another embodiment the user device operates over the service provider network as per a contractual and or subscription agreement. As such the integration platform may access the subscriber profile regarding the user and or device . The subscriber profile may include details regarding the user account data and or user service agreement data service or device identifier information and any other data for permitting user device to access the service provider network . It is noted the user devices may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone or any combination thereof. Also the user devices can support any type of interface for presenting or exchanging data including enabling the rendering of a user interface of the social networking service . Of note the user interface may be generated via a social networking application configured to access the remote service a browser application or other application capable of operating at the user device .

In another embodiment the integration platform is active as the user device interacts with the social networking service . For example the integration platform may detect activation of the social networking service via the device in response to a login procedure. The login procedure may include for example submission of a social networking identifier e.g. alias handle username associated with the user as well as entry of a password. Once the user is logged in the user profile corresponding to their social networking identifier is retrieved and loaded thus enabling the user to interact with other members of the social networking service . The interaction may include posting messages and events accessing pictures visiting profile pages of other members of the social networking service joining groups etc. It is noted the user interface of the social networking service may be configured to receive via the display of the device various types of user input for facilitating the social networking interaction.

In yet another embodiment the integration platform may also identify if the network the device is using to browse the internet or access the social networking service is affiliated with the provider of the network . Under this scenario the integration platform may look up the subscribed user s internet protocol IP address as specified via the browser. The platform then compares the IP address against an IP address range of the provider to determine if the IP address corresponds to the service provider network . When the network is identified as being associated with the provider the subscriber profile is retrieved based on the IP information associated with the user. It is noted the subscriber profile may also be retrieved based at least in part on detection of a device identifier or other identification means.

Still further in another embodiment the integration platform also requests user permission to associate link the social networking identifier of the user with the subscriber profile as retrieved. By way of example the integration platform generates a notification message for prompting user input via the user interface of the social networking service to reject or accept the request. When the user rejects the request the social networking identifier e.g. and associated user profile is not associated with the subscriber profile . When the user accepts the request however the social networking identifier e.g. and associated user profile is associated with the subscriber profile . It is noted therefore that acceptance of the request may correspond to an opt in procedure for the service provider network to permanently link the profiles for coordinating the transmission and delivery of notification messages to the user via the social networking service . Alternatively rejection of the request corresponds to an opt out procedure.

It is noted the above described account identification and linking procedure may be facilitated different ways. For example in one embodiment the integration platform may detect the visiting of a social networking page of the provider of the network by the user via the social networking service . The social networking page may be associated with a social networking profile established by the provider with the social networking service . Under this scenario the lookup to determine if subscriber profile exists for the device per the service provider network is executed in response to the visit. Subsequently the request for permission to associate the subscriber profile with the social networking identifier of the user is generated based on a determination that the profile exists.

In another embodiment the integration platform may detect activation of a social application. The social application may be an executable agent widget or module that is presented for user selection as a link via the provider s social networking page. Alternatively the user may download the social application from an application store website of the service provider. Still further the user may learn about and subsequently download the social application based on a post generated by another user e.g. a friend of the social. Once invoked the social application may call the platform to initiate a lookup of the subscriber profile to determine if the profile exists for the device and or user. Also in certain implementations the social application may be loaded into the user interface of the social networking service as an embedded program or integrated inline frame e.g. as an iFrame or target element per a markup language specification .

In either of the above described embodiments the integration platform may execute various application programming interfaces APIs for interacting with the social networking service. The APIs may include instructions for rendering notification messages to request the association of the subscriber profile with the social networking identifier. In addition the APIs may include instructions for receiving interpreting user input as submitted via the user interface of the social networking service .

In one embodiment the integration platform subscribes the social networking identifier and associated social networking profile of the user with a push notification service . By way of example the subscription process is performed in response to acceptance of the request to associate the social networking identifier of the user with the subscriber profile . Under this scenario the push notification service is maintained by the provider of the network for enabling the dissemination of notification messages to the user based on the social networking identifier. Hence once generated and stored the push notification service directs the notification messages to the social networking service . The integration platform then renders the notification message to the user interface of the social networking service accordingly.

It is noted the notification messages may be rendered to the user interface by the integration platform within a designated frame or window of the user interface. As such the notification messages may be caused to populate a section of the user interface of the social networking service . Alternatively an alert may be rendered to the user interface for indicating the availability number or priority of the notification messages. Under this scenario the user may activate the alert to cause a rendering of the notification messages to the user interface.

In addition to subscribing the user via their social networking identifier to the push notification service the integration platform also updates the subscriber profile to enable permanent linking of the social networking identifier with the subscriber profile . The update may include adding a reference to the social networking identifier a specification of the user decision to permit or not permit linking of the subscriber profile with the social networking identifier and associated social networking profile a specification of the user decision to opt in or opt out etc. It is noted that any known data storage or referencing techniques may be employed by the integration platform for performing the update.

The above described embodiments provide numerous advantages to a user subscribed to the network . One advantage for example is that the user of the social networking service is able to receive and view notification messages directly from their social networking service account. As such the user is not required to independently access a customer portal email utility or other standalone tool or service in order to retrieve notification messages from the provider. As another advantage linking of the profile with the social networking profile via the social networking identifier a first time ensures continual directing of notification messages to the user via the social networking service thereafter. Thus no additional linking of the communication service and the social networking service need be performed or initiated by the user including during subsequent logging in of the user to the social networking service via their social networking identifier. Still further as another advantage the procedure for facilitating linking of the subscriber profile information with the social networking identifier of the same user is seamless and requires minimal user interaction or manual configuration.

In certain embodiments user devices the integration platform services and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

Networks may employ various technologies for enabling wireless communication including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Still further the communication provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner the communication network may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

It is noted though not shown in the figure that in certain embodiments user devices may be configured to establish peer to peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies near field communication NFC Bluetooth ZigBee infrared etc. Also connectivity can be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of user devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the integration platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to subscribe to the service for enabling the linking association of a subscriber profile of a user with the user s social networking identifier account. The subscription process may include establishing an opt in permission to perform the linking. Preferences and settings information may be referenced to a specific user user device or combination thereof and maintained as subscriber data .

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input provided by the user from the user device or other device via a graphical user interface to the platform e.g. as enabled by user interface module . The subscriber profile for respective user which contains pertinent user or device profile data may be cross referenced as part of the login process. Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained as registration data with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

In one embodiment the pairing module determines whether a user device is configured to a network of a communication service provider. By way of example the pairing module performs an IP address lookup to determine if the data network the device is using to access the social networking service or internet in general is associated with the provider of the network . This includes for example identifying whether the IP address falls within an IP address range of the provider. If the network is identified as being associated with the provider the pairing module then triggers execution of the user interface module for generating a notification message to indicate the pairing.

Still further the pairing module may also be configured to determine an association between a subscriber profile and a social networking identifier. Under this scenario the association is based on a common user of a device that is subscribed to the network as well as registered with a social networking service via a social networking identifier. The pairing module may be triggered for execution in response to a logging in of the user to the social networking service via the social networking identifier. Once the login is performed the pairing module may again trigger execution of the user interface module to generate a message for requesting permission to link the subscriber profile with the identifier.

In certain embodiments the user interface module generates a notification message for prompting user permission to associate the subscriber profile of the user user device with the social networking identifier in response to the pairing module . Once generated the notification message is rendered to a display of the device and may include for example different user action buttons for receiving user input. The input may pertain to a granting or rejecting of the permission. When the input is received the user interface module then passes the input to the pairing module accordingly. It is noted the user interface for presentment of the notification message may correspond to the social application the social networking service or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments the notification retrieval module is triggered for execution in the case where user permission is granted. This initiates an enrolling of the device for receipt of push notification messages i.e. the push notification messages are retrieved and subsequently presented via a social networking service of the user. The notification retrieval module retrieves the social networking identifier of the user and or device from the subscriber profile database . Alternatively the social networking identifier is provided as an input per the notification message. Once the social networking identifier is retrieved the notification retrieval module then submits a request for enrollment of the user device with a push notification service.

The enrollment request may specify the social networking identifier of the user as well as the specific social service to which notifications are to be sent. In addition the request may also specify the types of notification messages to be pushed to the device. It is noted the push notification service may belong to or is affiliated with the communication service provider to which the device is subscribed. As such the push notification messages may include offers incentives account details or other information pertaining to the communication service provider or the subscribed user. Still further the notification messages may be proactive troubleshooting messages for alerting the user of service or system oriented issues e.g. a system failure .

In certain embodiments the profile updating module updates the profile information maintained in connection with the user and or device in response to the enrollment procedure. The updating includes a specification of a linking of the subscriber profile with the social networking identifier. In addition the profile information may include a validation of enrollment with the push notification system e.g. opt in or opt out status . By updating the profile information such as during first time execution of the integration platform for a device the social application and the social networking service are permanently linked unless adapted by the user subsequently . Thus push notifications the user typically receives from the communication service provider via an independent user interface e.g. a bill reminder or service disruption notice are automatically presented via the interface of the social networking service. It is noted that the user interface module may employ different API executions for supporting the integration and presentment of push notifications via the social networking service.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables the rendering of notification messages or alerts thereof to a graphical user interface of the social networking service. By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the browser application or web portal application of the user devices . In addition the APIs may be generated by the provider of the social networking service for use in supporting the rendering of notification messages the embedding of other programs etc.

In one embodiment a communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a user device e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and the integration platform over the network . It is noted that the communication module is also configured to support a browser session i.e. the retrieval of content as referenced by a resource identifier during a specific period of time or usage of the browser. The browser session may support execution of the social networking service at a user device .

The above presented modules and components of the integration platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. This includes for example implementing the integration platform as a social application for activation via a call procedure of the social networking service. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is also contemplated that the integration platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective user devices . As such the integration platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the user device for interacting with the application e.g. browser to access the different services . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective user devices as a platform or combination thereof.

In step the integration platform determines whether a network identifier for accessing a social networking service via a communication network is associated with subscriber account information maintained by the communication service provider. As noted previously the network identifier may include an internet protocol IP address that falls within a range of IP addresses associated with a provider of the communication network. In another step the social networking service generates a request for linking a social networking identifier associated with the social networking service with the subscriber account information based on the determination. Per step the platform initiates a rendering of a notification message received from the communication service provider to a user interface of the social networking service based on acceptance of the request. It is noted the platform operates in connection with the social networking service to enable rendering of the request i.e. by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs .

In step of process the integration platform determines via the user interface of the social networking service an input for selecting a social application associated with the communication service provider. As noted previously the social application may include one or more application programming interfaces for supporting the rendering of notification messages via the user interface a rendering of an alert for indicating the availability of the notification messages via the user interface or a combination thereof. Also as noted previously the social application may be presented to a user of the social networking service for selection from a social networking page of the communication service provider.

In step the integration platform determines based on the subscriber account information a notification service associated with the communication service provider. In another step the integration platform subscribes the social networking identifier with the notification service. It is noted that the notification messages are transmitted by the notification service to the social networking service based on the subscription. Also of note the notification messages may be generated by the communication service provider.

In step of process the integration platform determines via the user interface an input for accepting or rejecting the request. As noted previously the input is received in association with the social networking identifier i.e. corresponding to the social network service profile of the user. In step the platform updates the subscriber account information based on the input for accepting the request. As mentioned above the input may be associated with an opt in procedure of the communication service provider wherein the opt in enables continual transmission of notification messages to the social networking service via the user s social networking identifier. Hence the updated subscriber account information is retrieved automatically in response to a subsequent activation of the social networking service.

In step of process the integration platform determines via the user interface an input for selecting to unlink the social networking identifier associated with the subscriber account information. By way of example the input may be associated with an opt out procedure associated with the communication service provider wherein the opt out prevents further transmission of notification messages from the communication service provider.

In the user logs into the social networking service via their social networking identifier e.g. Craig . This causes the social networking service to retrieve the user profile associated with the social networking identifier. Credentials associated with the profile are per this example presented to the user in a frame of the browser along with various user selection links .

In another frame of the browser the user is presented with a social networking page of Communication Service Provider A. By way of example the user visits the page by selecting the My People link from the list of selection links for accessing the different social networking contacts of the user including the service provider. Once the social networking page of the communication service provider is uploaded to the frame the user may select from links . Under this scenario the user selects activates the Social App link which initiates activation of a social application.

In upon selection of the Social App link a webpage for providing details about the social application is retrieved and loaded into the frame . In addition a notification message for requesting user permission to allow for sending of notification messages from the communication service provider is rendered at the browser . The user may select a YES action button to grant permission for the sending of notification messages to the user via the social networking service. This corresponds to a decision to opt in for receipt of communication from the provider. Alternatively the user may select a NO action button to opt out or not permit the receipt of notification messages from the provider.

In in the case where the user grants permission for the sending of notification messages a check is performed to determine whether the data network used to access the social networking service is associated with the communication service provider. As noted previously this includes performing an IP address lookup and comparison against ranges assigned to the communication service provider. Once the association is determined another notification message is rendered to the browser for requesting user permission to accept pairing of their communication service provider account with their social networking service account. This includes for example linking the subscriber profile of the user with their social networking identifier.

Under this scenario the user is presented with action buttons for receiving user input for responding to the permission request. The user may select the ALLOW PAIRING or DO NOT PAIR action buttons and respectively to either allow or not allow the pairing of the accounts. Also the user may select a ASK LATER action button to postpone the opt in or opt out process for another time. Still further the user may select the EXIT action button to close out the notification message prompt and continue interacting with the social networking page of the communication service provider.

In the case where the user grants permission to link the accounts per action button this initiates an enrolling of the user associated with the subscriber profile to a push notification service of the communication service provider. The enrollment includes establishing that notification messages be directed to the user by way of the social networking identifier. In addition the subscriber profile for the user is updated accordingly to indicate the linking of the subscriber profile with the social networking identifier. It is noted that upon acceptance the user is able to receive notifications from Communication Service Provider A directly via their social networking service profile without having to subsequently independently login to a customer portal or other platform of the service provider.

In the user is able to receive and view notification messages or alerts thereof as sent by the communication service provider. Under this scenario the user is presented with an icon for indicating that one or more notification messages are available for view directly from the user interface of the social networking service. When the user selects the icon e.g. clicks this causes a rendering of a window or frame for presenting the notification messages. Per this example the notification messages pertain to a new service offering as well as a message for indicating account payment and discount details. The user may select either of the messages which may further cause invocation of an additional website or browser window pertaining to the message. It is noted that the user is able to view the notification messages during any moment in which they are logged in to the social networking service.

In the notification message pertains to a service related issue. Under this scenario the message is generated and subsequently pushed to the user proactively such as in response to determined network problems. It is further contemplated that the proactive alert message may be provided in response to messaging activity of the user relative to a determined network issue. Hence per this scenario for example when the user generates a post referring to a problem they are experiencing with the network provider this may be provided as feedback to the integration platform . Based on this feedback the number of other posts related to the same issue an amount of time between such posts error message data etc. the integration platform may prompt the push notification service to transmit the notification message . It is noted the criteria for pushing the proactive troubleshooting message may vary from one service provider to the next.

The processes described herein for delivery and presentment of service provider notification messages to a subscribed user via a social networking service of the user may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multiprocessing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to deliver and present service provider notification messages to a subscribed user via a social networking service of the user. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

