---

title: Simulated explosive composition
abstract: The present invention can be characterized as a trainer kit for a Colorimetric Reconnaissance Explosive Squad Screening (“CRESS”) kit, which contains a control compound and a set of simulated explosive compositions (“SEC”). The control compound contains no explosive precursor, while each SEC is a combination of one or more explosive precursors that is to be detected by CRESS, and at least one non-explosive additive that reduces the kinetics of the explosive precursor. The SEC retains the colorimetric characteristics of the explosive precursor, but is stable in heat and non-hazardous.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09046508&OS=09046508&RS=09046508
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09046508
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates to a testing kit comprising at least one simulated explosive composition SEC that is non hazardous wherein the SEC interacts with at least one colorimetric reagent to simulate the color response of its explosive counterpart.

Most portable sample detectors only identify one analyte for a given singular device. These analyte detections often rely upon the users ability to select the correct device for a specific analyte. During sampling users may not be fully knowledgeable of all of the analytes that can possibly be present in the environment. This situation can lead to longer detection times and prolonged durations in a hazardous environment which may cause severe injuries or death. Additionally low volatility and or solid phase analytes i.e. ammonium nitrate perchlorate salts urea and urea nitrate do not produce enough vaporous mass due to their inherently low volatilities and thus cannot be detected via traditional selective vapor phase sampling means i.e. ICAM and JCAD .

Given this a Colorimetric Homemade Explosive Detector CHED or colorimetric reconnaissance Explosive Squad Screening CRESS kit has been developed for this purpose. It is a collection concentration sampler and detector of liquid or solid phase analytes from diverse environmental matrixes specifically explosive compounds or their precursors . Briefly one uses the sampler component of the CRESS kit to pick up a solid or liquid sample from a surface which is then folded over the detector component. The CRESS kit further includes colorimetric reagent containing ampoules located above the sampler component. The user breaks the ampoules to allow the reagent to dissolve the sample and to be absorbed into a swatch of absorbent paper within the detector component. The resultant colors are developed on the paper and are visible through transparent windows each of which contains an integrated color chart to indicate positive and negative colors.

However in order to assess the degree of hazard from an unknown substance collected from the environment users of the CRESS kit need to be trained to interpret the combination of colors from the different visualization windows in CRESS. It is unsafe to use the real hazardous chemicals to produce color changes for training purposes. Therefore there remains a need for harmless simulated explosive compositions such that they require minimal or no manipulations to produce the color response of their hazardous counterparts within the CRESS kit.

The present invention can be characterized as a trainer kit for CRESS comprising a set of simulated explosive compositions SEC . Each SEC is a combination of at least one real explosive precursor that is to be detected by CRESS and at least one non explosive additive that reduces the combustion kinetics of the explosive precursor. The SEC retains the calorimetric characteristics of its explosive component but is stable in heat and non hazardous. The trainee can quickly train him or herself by sampling the SEC with a CRESS kit using the CRESS kit to obtain a calorimetric response from the SEC sample then interpreting the color change in relation to the potential presence of explosive precursors.

The present invention is directed toward a simulated explosive composition SEC kit comprising a plurality of SEC and its use within a colorimetric reconnaissance Explosive Squad Screening CRESS kit wherein each SEC is non hazardous and has the same color response as its explosive counterpart within the CRESS kit.

Briefly the CRESS kit collects multiple samples and detects liquid or solid analytes from these samples which are obtained from diverse environmental matrixes or in the present invention from the testing vials of the SEC kit. As shown in the CRESS kit is comprised of a detection and visualization unit DAVU a sampling and chemical unit SACU and a protective cover that overlays the SACU . A sample collector or collection pad is attached to and is part of the SACU. An attachment means is created by affixing clips to groove on the side of unit which receives protrusion that extends from the side of unit that fastens the SACU to the DAVU . The SACU can be placed adjacent to and flush against the DAVU to create a tight seal.

The SACU can be separated from the DAVU and remains attached thereto via a pair of flexible hinges allowing the opening and closing of the SACU to the DAVU and . The bias in hinges tightly seals the SACU to the DAVU to prevent any leakage of chemicals and provides for accurate reactions to take place in each visualization cell. The SACU is comprised of multiple individually confined and equally sized colorimetric reagent cells CRC . Each of the CRC houses at least one colorimetric reagent carried in containers such as breakable ampoules . Below ampoules is a directing sink with apertures that enable the colorimetric reagents to be released downward from the broken ampoules to the sampling collector and to DAVU . Beneath each of the sinks is placed sample collector surface and pad . illustrates sample collector with a customized surface geometry to concentrate the samples collected and reagents in the form of a pattern. This pattern allows any positive detection to be readily visible by the user on the surface of the visualization media of the DAVU through transparent bottom surface .

The DAVU is comprised of multiple individually confined and equally sized detection and visualization cells DAVC . Each of the DAVC contains a visualization media . The visualization media is comprised of a flat absorbent pad. The absorbent pad can be transparent white or of any color that produces a stark contrast with the color change induced by the presence of an analyte. The absorbent pad can be in the form of a filter paper a silica gel paper a cloth and a glass fiber disk etc. The paper or cloth can for example be made of cotton yarn cellulose fibers rayon blend borosilicate glass fiber with PVA binder cellulose and synthetic blend with PVA binder or cotton linter. The pad may or may not be coated with a sticky adhesive material or other support additives as needed i.e. impregnated with an enzyme specific for urea hydrolysis. The preferred materials are cotton linter that is commercially available as Whatman Absorbent Sinks and cloth membrane that is commercially available as Dupont Sonatra 8426. Additionally the visualization media may also be the sampling or collection pad which collects samples from the environment. The reacted calorimetric reagents from SACU are absorbed by the visualization media in each of the DAVC . The visualization media then indicates the color change in the presence of a specific analyte or for the present invention an explosive precursor. The visualization media is viewable through transparent bottom surface of DAVU .

Furthermore the SACU has partitions to separate each of the CRC . The underside of partitions are formed as interlocking channels or grooves not shown . In a fastened or closed position the grooves fit snuggly onto the partitions that divide each of the corresponding detection and visualization cells DAVC in DAVU in order to create a tight seal to prevent leakage of chemical reagents and samples from one CRC to another.

The explosives that can be detected via the CRESS kit are selected from nitrate explosives perchlorate explosives azide explosives HMTD hexamethylennetriperoxidediamine picrate explosives TATP triacetonetriperoxide and mixtures thereof. For example the CRESS kit as described above can be designed to detect the precursors of nitrate and perchlorate explosives. Fuel and oxidizers are the two required components for producing these explosives. Nitrate explosive is comprised of nitrates as the oxidizer and urea as the fuel. Meanwhile perchlorate explosive mixture is comprised of perchlorate as the oxidizer and ammonium as the fuel. In a preferred embodiment of the CRESS kit as shown in four quadrants of the detection window are available to detect the four explosive precursors nitrates urea perchlorate and ammonium via the color changes. The CRESS kit detection color scheme is shown below in Table 1 

For urea detection the enzyme urease is impregnated onto the reaction substrate of the CRESS kit to hydrolyze urea. The hydrolysis reaction subsequently increases the pH of the substrate. This pH change induces a color change of the colorimetric reagent methyl red from light yellow to pink. For perchlorate detection the ion pairing methylene blue impregnated onto the reaction substrate will be dissolved by DI water and form a colored precipitate with perchlorates changing from blue to purple. For nitrate detection diphenyl amine in a strong acid phosphoric acid forms a dissolvable salt that will produce a very dark black oxidation colorimetric response in the presence of nitrates which can also be used to confirm the presence of urea nitrate when used in conjunction with the urea test. The last test is for ammonium ion and the CRESS kit uses the premade Nessler s reagent that results in a yellow orange brown concentration dependent color change in the presence of NHas it reacts with the mercury in the reagent.

The CRESS kit color detection layout is depicted in wherein four detection windows quadrants are present such that each precursor occupies one detection window. As shown in window detects urea window detects perchlorate window detects nitrate and window detects ammonium.

A SEC kit is comprised of a plurality of SEC each of which is a combination of a real explosive or explosive precursor to be detected by a CRESS kit and a non explosive additive that reduces the kinetics of the explosive or explosive precursor. The SEC retains the colorimetric characteristics of its explosive or explosive precursor component but is stable in heat and non hazardous. The SEC kit includes 1 one control vial that contains a non SEC compound and induces no color change and 2 approximately 1 to 10 vials of SEC. Preferably the SEC kit includes one control vial and approximately 1 to 8 vials of SEC and more preferably one control vial and approximately 1 to 6 vials of SEC. Each vial contains an equal amount of the various substances aforementioned. The SEC kit further includes a manual that instructs the user on how to use the kit in accordance with the CRESS kit and how to interpret the colored results from the CRESS kit.

As shown in the SEC kit includes one control vial and five SEC vials which are labeled respectively as SLSG ANAC PPPC PPAC PNUR and PPAN . The SEC kit also includes an information sheet as shown in Table 1 about the SEC which lists a four digit code that represents the test results for each vial. Each of the four digits represents a quadrant or DAVC which indicates the presence of an explosive precursor or the lack thereof by color changes. The order of the digits corresponds to known explosive precursors in the following sequence perchlorate nitrate ammonium and urea. Each of the four digit test result code consists of 1 s and or 0 s to indicate the expected outcome wherein a positive color response in a designated DAVC is designated as 1 and a negative color response is designated as 0. For example a test result of 0110 indicates that the SEC tested positive for nitrate and ammonium and negative for perchlorate and urea. These labels and test result codes are developed to help provide trainees with an unknown material while still allowing the trainer to determine the accuracy of the trainee s interpretation of the colored responses from the CRESS kit. To further ensure the identification of the training compound the SEC kit is packaged into colored capsules each containing about one gram of material. Table 2 lists examples of labels for each SEC its test result code capsule color and components 

It must be noted that in other examples of the SEC kit more SEC vials and their corresponding combinations of test results are also useful. For instance a test result code of 0100 is possible with a SEC that is a combination of potassium nitrate and potassium chloride.

Referring to Table 2 when chemicals from the Component One column are mixed thoroughly with the chemicals listed in the Component Two column the non explosive additives within these two types of chemicals change the reaction rates of the explosive precursors. The non explosive additives also function as a heat sink to reduce the combustion kinetic of the explosive precursors. Without wishing to be bound by theory the reduction is caused by the colligative effects of mixing a contaminant with a neat material. The non explosive additives are the non explosive anions or cations of compounds in Components One and Two or compounds that do not result in an explosive mix when they are being added to make the SEC. Examples of non explosive additives are anions selected from chloride bromide oxide and fluoride and cations selected from sodium potassium ammonium copper iron magnesium calcium and aluminum.

Each SEC has a ratio of the explosive precursor to the non explosive additives in the range of 1 10 to 10 1 preferably 1 5 to 5 1. Alternatively each SEC contains at least one explosive precursor in the amount of 1 to 90 wt. preferably 10 to 80 wt. and more preferably 20 to 70 wt. balanced by the non explosive additives.

The trainee can be safely trained to detect potential explosives by 1 sampling different SEC with a CRESS kit 2 using the CRESS kit to obtain a colorimetric response from each SEC and 3 interpreting the combinations of color change to assess the presence of explosives.

As shown in for colorimetric detections from a SEC a pre weighted vial of SEC kit labeled as PNUR is opened and SEC is poured onto surface . The CRESS kit is unfastened and the collection pad of all four quadrants correspond to four CRC on the bottom of SAVU is pressed against the suspect surface . The kit is then fastened and the calorimetric reagents within each of the CRC are released from their containers and directed downward onto the collection pad for reaction with any suspect analyte or explosive precursor and the reacted calorimetric reagent is then directed onto and into the visualization media . The reacted calorimetric reagents are absorbed by the visualization media in each of the DAVC . As shown in the visualization media subsequently indicates a color change a color that corresponds to Danger in the presence of a specific analyte or explosive precursor. The visualization media is viewable through the transparent bottom surface of DAVU .

All of the SEC that are listed in Table 2 were tested to verify their status as non hazardous. Specifically each SEC was subjected to differential scanning calorimetry DSC and burn testing. For the DSC testing approximately 2.5 mg of each of the SEC was placed into a DSC Q100 by TA Instruments and heated from ambient to 550 C. The instrument recorded the heat flow verses temperature. None of the SEC exploded.

For the burn test the SEC samples were placed in a v block with a specific length and heated with a torch at one end. The rate at which the samples burned down the length of the block was to be calculated. However none of the SEC burned when exposed to the torch.

Each of the SEC was then tested with a CRESS kit to verify their designated color results. Each of the SEC was poured from its storage vial onto a separate testing surface and each SEC was tested separately with a new and unused CRESS kit wherein the unused and opened CRESS kit was pressed against the testing surface to collect the SEC. Each CRESS kit was then used according to the operating instruction as mentioned hereinabove. Every SEC produced colorimetric response that was identical to their explosive precursors. illustrates the test results of the labeled SEC from Table 2 wherein ANAC tested positive for nitrates and ammonium PPPC tested positive for only perchlorate PPAC tested positive for perchlorate and ammonium PNUR tested positive for urea and nitrate PPAN tested positive for perchlorate nitrates and ammonium and SLSG was control substance that tested negative for all precursors.

It must be noted that the SEC that were labeled as PPAC PNUR and PPAN were all tested by the CRESS kit to contain explosives nitrate urea and perchlorate ammonium yet none had posed any danger during the testing.

The testing kit of the present invention provides advantages over prior art testing devices in that the entire colorimetric explosive detection process stays the same for the SEC as its hazardous counterpart. No specially engineered system is required. The only component that changes is the composition of the targeted explosive analytes. In this invention special non explosive additives are added to reduce sensitivity and combustion of the explosive precursor.

Also packing and production of the SEC kit is improved because potential hazardous events have been significantly reduced. Department of Transportation issues dealing with explosive hazards are also significantly reduced due to a large reduction in pyrotechnic sensitivity.

