---

title: Removable payload containment systems for platforms, installation methods thereof, and payload integration kits for existing platforms
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to removable payload containment systems for platforms, installation methods thereof and payload integration kits for platforms. The removable payload containment system may include: a housing having internal space for components, the housing including at least one connector configured to couple with at least one corresponding connector of the platform when the system is installed in or on the platform; and a latch mechanism that couples to a member of the platform and is configured to maintain the system into substantially non-moving engagement with the platform when engaged therewith, and permit removal of the system from the platform when released. The latch mechanism may be configured to limit movement of the housing with respect to platform in substantially only one direction when one connector couples and uncouples, and is mated, with a corresponding connector of the platform when installing or removing the system from the platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09371038&OS=09371038&RS=09371038
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09371038
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130530
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 680 522 filed Aug. 7 2012 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to payload containment systems and in particular to removable payload containment systems for various platforms.

The U.S. Army is developing various intelligent autonomous robotic systems. Example robots include for instance Small Unmanned Ground Vehicle SUGV Model Nos. 310 and 320 available from iRobot Corporation of Somerville Mass. The robots may be configured for various missions which may require markedly different hardware and component configurations. For example one or more sensors detectors measuring devices appendages armaments etc. may be mounted onto a robot for a particular mission. Components typically are mounted directly to the robot s chassis through the various electro mechanical couplings and connected to pin connectors on the robot s chassis through a plug or flexible ribbon or cable connection for providing power or signal communications. Configuring the robot for a particular mission can be quite a lengthy process not to mention a challenge to mount various and different hardware components and related electronics to the robotic platform.

The U.S. Army Research Laboratory ARL has designed and built a payload container for iRobot Corporation s previous robotic platform the PackBot which includes an opening for enabling coupling of a connector inside the housing to a mating pin connector mounted to the robot s chassis. The payload container can be fastened directly to the robot s chassis with screw fasteners. Fastening and removing the payload container to the robot requires significant time to install or remove the screw fasteners and the payload container is not water proof dust proof or shielded to adequately protect sensitive electronic components therein. Furthermore and also of particular concern is that when a connector is being connected to and disconnected from a corresponding connector of the robot and even during use the fragile connectors are susceptible to damage. For instance even slight rotation or pivoting of the payload container with respect to the robot s chassis or movement in a direction other than required to couple uncouple the connectors can shear break crush bend and or otherwise damage the pin connections or contacts of the connector crack or break the wall of connector and or the payload container or unintentionally disconnect the connector among other problems. In light of these issues this payload container has proved quite limited for in field use and impractical for many applications.

Embodiments of present invention are directed to removable payload containment systems for platforms installation methods thereof and payload integration kits for existing platforms.

According to one embodiment a removable payload containment system for installation in or on a platform may include a housing having internal space for one or more components the housing including at least one connector configured to couple with at least one corresponding connector of the platform when the system is installed in or on the platform and a latch mechanism that couples to a member of the platform and is configured to maintain the system into substantially non moving engagement with the platform when engaged therewith and permit removal of the system from the platform when released. The latch mechanism may be further configured to limit movement of the housing with respect to platform in substantially only one direction when one connector couples and uncouples and is mated with a corresponding connector of the platform when installing or removing the system from the platform.

According to another embodiment a method of installing or removing a removable payload containment system in or on a platform may include moving the payload containment system in one direction when the at least one connector couples and uncouples with the corresponding at least one connector of the platform wherein the latch mechanism limits motion to substantially only the one said direction. The method may further include moving the payload containment system in a second direction to place the system adjacent to or remove the system away from the platform.

According to yet another embodiment a payload integration kit for an existing platform may include a removable payload containment system and one or more components to adapt the existing platform for use with the payload containment system.

According to a further embodiment a modular payload containment system for a platform may include a plurality of payload containment systems wherein the systems are configured to be installed in or on the same platform with at least two systems having different component configurations. The modular system may include at least two systems have housings that differ in at least one of the height length and width dimensions and or shape.

According to an additional embodiment a combination may include a removable payload containment system and the platform.

Other features of one or more embodiments of this disclosure will seem apparent from the following detailed description accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

Photographs show the payload containment system shown in installed in an SUGV robotic platform. Photograph shows the payload containment system installed onto a SUGV Model 320 chassis. Photograph shows the payload containment system installed onto a SUGV chassis with the lid removed. Photograph shows the bottom view form fit and clearances on a SUGV chassis.

Embodiments of present invention are directed to removable payload containment systems for a platform installation methods thereof and payload integration kits for existing platforms. The payload containment systems provide a quick and simple way to add or change capabilities or functionality of a platform with relative ease and which can be locked into place with a latch mechanism. Accordingly the platform can be adapted as needed for any variety of applications missions functions or tasks by adding the removable payload containment system to or exchanging the removable payload containment system with the platform.

The platform first depicted in may be any hardware or components platform whether an existing platform or specially configured platform according to embodiments of the present invention. Exemplary platforms may include a rack chassis frame platform or the like. Such platforms may be part of robotic systems desktop and laptop computers tablet computing devices electronic devices such as power supplies amplifiers diagnostic hardware radio frequency RF equipment and audio video A V equipment etc. avionics machinery manufacturing or assembly apparatus vehicles e.g. automobiles trucks aircrafts boats military vehicles etc. for instance.

The platform may include an open bay area or other recessed area defined by sidewalls . Here sidewalls include parallel vertical sidewalls A B on the left and right sides of the platform respectively. A front region of the platform forward of the open bay area may house or otherwise support various electronics. These areas are typically used for stowing hardware such as a manipulator arm or camera boom in the case of a robot when not deployed for use. The open bay area may be largely defined by the design and configuration of the rack chassis frame platform or the like of the hardware platform for instance. According to various embodiments the payload container system may be configured to substantially conform to the form fit and clearances of the open bay area or other recessed area of the platform . More particularly at least one of the height length and width dimensions of the housing can be sized to substantially correspond to the height length or width dimensions respectively of the platform . Thus the space or volume of the housing can be maximized or optimized to an open bay area of the platform. The platform may include a bulkhead surface which supports an external connector which the connector is adapted to mate with. Details of the connectors are provided below.

For increased rigidly the platform may include at least one rear cross bar member . Here the rear cross bar member spans between the vertical sidewalls A B at the rear of the open bay area . While the open bay area is illustrated without a bottom surface in some figures it should be appreciated this configuration is not limiting and that the open bay area could include a bottom surface and or a top surface in some instances. As shown in the housing includes at least one interior volume . The interior volume of the payload housing includes bottom surface and vertical sidewalls generally defining the interior volume . As shown the interior volume here is generally rectilinear in shape. Although depending on available volume and configuration of the open bay area of the platform the housing may have other shapes. The interior volume provides space for one or more components to be housed.

The components may include hardware and or electronics needed for a particular application or mission. Components configurations for example may support sensor platforms multi robot and ground air collaborations warfare and warfighter efforts search and rescue missions hazardous materials situations explosive ordinance disposal physical security and surveillance communications nuclear biological and chemical among others. Components may include various components needed for any application mission function or task as well as related electronics e.g. controllers power supplies amplifiers filters switches processors memory device etc. . For example typical components may include one or more of cameras e.g. two cameras may be provided for stereoscopic vision thermal IR imaging devices microphones chemical vapor detectors Geiger counters lasers seismic sensing devices metal detectors bomb mine and improvised explosive device IED detectors weather device e.g. thermometers barometers wind velocity measuring devices etc. photovoltaic solar array one or more antennas for radio frequency RF communications a satellite dish for uplink and downlink communications armaments e.g. weapons guns explosives etc. and appendages e.g. articulated arms for grasping lifting probing etc. for instance.

In some embodiments for tactical robotic platform the components provided with a payload containment system may include but are not limited to at least one processor e.g. a multi core or quad core processor a hard disk drive or other memory device network switch router one or more batteries or battery packs power board laser range finder with a pan tilt unit global positioning system GPS miniature GPS aided inertial navigation system IMU and or a motion sensing input device.

The components may be provided with the payload containment system in some embodiments but need not be and may be added or changed later in other embodiments. Alternatively or additionally the housing can also be modified to receive feed thru connectors cables and wires and mount external components. Also one or more other bulkheads might be provided in the housing or lid for this purpose.

System interfaces for these components may use proprietary and open source software in some implementations. For example many hardware components such as sensors may require image processors or other controllers for processing input and rendering suitable outputs.

Components may be mounted on a printed circuit board PCB for example but PCBs might not always be needed and some components can be directly mounted to the housing whether internally or externally mounted. The components or PCBs may be mounted by suitable fasteners e.g. screws or bolts and or an adhesive. PCBs could be mounted horizontally or vertically depending on available interior space. In addition the housing may include thermal insulation and or electrical insulation as may be needed or desired. Potting may be used to provide resistance to shock and vibration and for exclusion of moisture and corrosive agents. A polyurethane or silicone material may be used for this purpose for instance.

The housing may further be provided with a power supply such as including one or more of the following a battery pack photovoltaic solar cells fuel cell transformer rectifier inverter AC DC converter DC DC convertor power regulating integrated circuit IC etc. for example.

In some embodiments the housing may be fabricated as a unitary construction i.e. one piece construction from a suitable material such as aluminum steel ABS Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene plastic ABS polycarbonate blends or Acetal polymer Delrin by machining casting or injection molding for example. Alternatively the housing might be formed of multiple walls i.e. a multi piece construction which are welded or otherwise attached together such as with fasteners or adhesive. The housing may be painted or otherwise colored or patterned for camouflage and or to match the scheme of the platform . The lid may be fabricated from similar material as the housing . In one embodiment the housing and the lid may be formed of a recyclable material to readily permit recycling when the system is damaged or otherwise at the end of its lifecycle.

As shown the housing has stepped bottom surfaces A B and a generally vertical bulkhead surface between the two bottom surfaces A and B. Here the housing is shown with a front left hand corner region which steps inwardly. A relief is also shown on the right lower side of the housing which corresponds to similar structure of the platform . The connector is provided on the bulkhead surface which is adapted to mate with the external connector of the platform .

These features generally correspond to profile of the open bay area of the platform. For example as shown in the platform may include an on off power switch i.e. the hexagonal element and LCD display screen i.e. the rectangular element positioned on the left side of the open bay area. Exterior chamfers reliefs recessed portions projections etc. may likewise conform to surface features of the open bay area of the platform. The housing is advantageously sized to accommodate these features of the open bay area of the platform . Accordingly the housing thus may slide back and forth without interference with these features within the open bay area of the platform.

The housing may include a removable cover or lid to provide access to the internal space of the housing. In some embodiments the lid may be connected to the housing with a hinge but need not be as shown in the figures. To secure the lid to the housing the lid may be connected to the housing with one or more fasteners or an adhesive. The fasteners may include mechanical fasteners such as a plurality of screws disposed through holes spaced about the perimeter of the lid which couple the lid to the housing and or the platform . Different types of fasteners may be provided at different portions as desired. For instance longer or larger fasteners A B may be provided near the bulkhead for added strength. These extended fasteners not only secure the lid to the housing here but can also connect to the platform . This latter connection may provide more robust coupling of the housing to the platform for more rugged applications. Of course bolts or other fasteners such as quick connect type fasteners having a bayonet connection might also be used. Corresponding holes in the housing for attaching the lid. These holes may be further provided with threaded inserts molded or otherwise formed therein e.g. Heli Coil inserts for greater strength. For instance the threaded inserts may be sized 6 32 for securing the lid to the housing and sized 4 40 for securing the connector bracket to the housing. Other sized fasteners and or inserts might also be used.

As shown the lid is relatively thin and flat and perimeter generally corresponds to the perimeter of the housing. For instance a front left hand corner region of the lid may correspond to the profile of the inwardly stepped left hand corner region of the housing .

This arrangement does not rely on a hinge and permits the lid to be fully removed from the housing . An o ring seal or gasket e.g. EMI RFI shielding or environmental seal may be provided on the interior or undersurface side of the lid . But the lid may have other shapes as may be suitable for various missions. Moreover in some embodiments one or both of the housing and the lid may include at least one transparent window or opening to permit light i.e. UV visible or IR or other electromagnetic radiation i.e. RF waves gamma rays etc. and or other phenomena i.e. acoustic waves heat etc. to enter the interior of the housing in some implementations.

The housing and the lid together may provide an environmentally sealed container which can prevent water dirt dust debris air moisture gas and or other matter from the entering the internal space thereof and causing damage therein in some embodiments. One or more of the surfaces of the housing lid or other portions of the system may be coated or provided with shielding materials to prevent electrical or magnetic interference. The shielding materials e.g. a small exemplary portion shown in may be applied to some or all of the interior and or external surfaces thereof.

In some embodiments the housing the lid or both might include at least one vent and or a fan to provide cooling to heat generating components within the housing. Similarly one or more heats sink may be mounted to the housing or the lid to readily dissipate heat from various heat generating components in some embodiments.

The housing may include one or more component holes or thru holes to permit components inside the housing to interact with the platform. More particularly the housing may include one or more connectors configured to couple with at least one corresponding interface connector of the platform when the system is engaged with the platform. The connectors may provide electrical signal data and or other resources between the system and the platform . Such connectors may include quick connect or quick release type couplings generally known in the art which are adapted to couple and uncouple with relative movement there between. When the housing is installed in or on the platform the connectors of the housing and the platform respectively engage and mate so as to be in an operable engagement. The connectors may be configured to provide electrical power e.g. 110 or 220 V 5 12 or 28 V etc. signal and data communications or both.

Typical electrical connectors include a male connector portion and a female connector portion which mate thus providing an operable interface. The male connector portion may be mounted to one of the housing and platform while the female connector portion may be mounted to the other of the housing and platform . Additional connectors may be similarly mounted to the housing and platform.

Depending on the connector type a separate connector bracket provided on the housing may or may not be needed. As shown the connector is supported by the connector bracket which is mounted to an internal surface of the housing . The connector bracket preferably keeps the connector in a substantially firm rigid attachment with the housing to prevent relative motion there between. Similarly the corresponding connector on the platform may be firmly and rigidly attached to the platform also with or without a similar connector bracket . In some embodiments the connector may be a 21 pin micro D pre wired pigtail connector e.g. available from Glenair Inc. part number MWDM2L 21S 4K7 18S which mates with or plugs into the connector bracket .

Other connectors may include standard 2 and 3 prong household U.S. and foreign electrical plugs 5 V 12 Vor 28 Vconnectors for power and D subminiature DisplayPort Universal Serial Bus USB Digital Visual Interface DVI RCA High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI S video IEEE 1394 FireWire serial and parallel computer ports for signals for example. Telephone and network e.g. Ethernet or RJ 45 connectors and jacks may be provided for network and others communications. This list of connector types though is not exhaustive. Some connectors may require adaptors or conversion such as configuring DIP switches or providing shunts.

Various original equipment manufacturer OEM supplied robot appendages may removably connect to a proprietary electro mechanical coupler provided on the robot. For example certain robotic manipulator arms can couple to the robot using a plug in and twist coupler such as found on iRobot Corporation s SUGV. One such coupler is shown in . A proprietary coupler design like this however may not readily lend itself to adaptation and even if it might it may only permit limited functionality or could be susceptible to damage by conventional coupling by twisting. That is not to say that such a coupling cannot be used in accordance with embodiments of the invention. On the other hand various connectors may be advantageously be used for a variety of purposes according to aspects of the invention without the aforementioned limitations.

Alternately or additionally connectors providing other resources e.g. air water pressurized air vacuum hydraulic or pneumatic fluids chemicals or other substances may be provided as available or desired according to aspects of the invention. Suitable quick release or quick connect valves or coupling may be provided as connectors for example.

Power signals data and or other resources may be transmitted to from and or between the system and platform . In some embodiments the platform may provide power to the system while in other embodiments the system may provide power to the platform. While the housing connector in the figures is shown positioned at the bulkhead between the stepped portions A B of the bottom surface it will be appreciated that the location of the housing connector may be different than illustrated for example depending on the existing locations of platform interfaces.

One or more gaskets may be positioned between the system and the platform proximate to the connectors for environmental sealing or shielding. The gaskets may be o rings in some embodiments. For example electromagnetic interference radio frequency interference EMI RFI shielding material may be positioned proximate to the connector .

As further illustrated in a groove or slot provided on the exterior surface of the bulkhead opposite to the connector bracket for accommodating a gasket such as an EMI RFI o ring. Other environmental sealing such as gaskets o rings or other sealing mechanisms might also be used to provide an air vapor or liquid seal there between. Silicone gaskets may be used for sealing for instance although grease seals might also be used. When the payload containment system is installed in or on the platform the gaskets and o rings may be compressed to form an operable seal or barrier there between.

One important aspect of the payload containment system is the latch mechanism . shows the latch mechanism in more detail. The latch mechanism provides a quick effective and simple way to install and remove the removable payload containment system to or from the platform . The latch mechanism generally includes a body portion a latch and a lip .

The body portion of the latch is generally rigid and includes a top horizontal surface A and a rear vertical surface B on the obverse of the body portion . Gusset plates may optionally connect the body portion of the housing and provide greater rigidity. Left and right gusset plated A B are illustrated in . As shown the top surface A and the rear surface B of the body portion as well as the lip are generally orthogonal but could be configured to engage other different platform structure in other embodiments. This might include rails sidewalls other cross bars mounting structure or the like.

The body portion and lip of the latch mechanism may be configured to generally wrap around or at least partially envelop the cross bar member while the latch is configured to lock or maintains the elements in this position in a fast or non moving manner. In that regard the latch is configured to maintain the system in a substantially non moving engagement with the platform when the latch is engaged and to permit removal of the system from the platform when the latch is released. The latch in the embodiment shown is configured to couple to the cross bar member of the platform so as to lock the latch mechanism into place.

The latch may depend forwardly from the top surface A of the body portion of the latch for contacting the top surface or front upper corner of the rear cross bar member in the embodiment as shown. Although it should be appreciated that the latch might by located at other locations in other embodiments e.g. depending from the lip for contacting the lower surface or front lower corner of the rear cross bar member. Other latch configurations are also possible based on the platform structure which the latch is configured to contact and engage.

In some embodiments the latch may include a hinged structure which can pivot or flex with respect to the body portion . As shown the latch may integrally connected to the body portion and be made sufficiently flexible or resilient to permit the hinging function. Cut out areas in the top surface of the body portion define the width of the latch and permit its flexure with respect to the top surface of the body portion. In other embodiments reliefs or flexible or expandable webbing material might be used as an alternative or in addition to cut out area.

A separate hinge element and at least one biasing spring element may be provided as the latch to urge the latch downward when the hinge pivots upward. Spring elements may include a compression torsion and or leaf spring for example. Or in other embodiments a spring biased pin or detent structure connected to tab could also be used for latch to urge the latch downward when the pin or detent is displaced in the opposite direction. For instance the pin or detent may be biased with a compression spring torsion and leaf spring. Other latch structure may also be provided in further embodiments.

The spacer and the nut bar are provided to adapt an existing platform for receiving the payload containment system . For example as further shown in and in more detail in Detail D the existing platform may include a rear cross bar member having an I beam or H beam configuration. The spacer and nut bar can be mounted to the cross bar member to provide smooth and flush top and bottom surfaces via fasteners such as screws and washers. Adhesives might also be used in addition or as an alternative.

Both the spacer and the nut bar may be provided with respective thru holes A B A B to accommodate fasteners . Thru holes A and B may be formed on the top horizontal surface A of the body of the latch for receiving the additional fasteners . And corresponding thru holes may need to be drilled though or otherwise formed in the cross bar member if not already present to permit passage of the fasteners . In some instance a nut may be provided opposite the head of the fasteners . Or the thru holes in the spacer and or the thru holes in the nut bar could be provided with internal threading or include press fit inserts with threading. Additionally the spacer and the nut bar may improve the rigidity of the cross bar member in some instances.

The latch mechanism can slide on the top surfaces of the spacer and nut bar with relative ease. In some embodiments the spacer and nut bar may be coated with a low friction of bearing material. As shown the latch mechanism depends from the rear external surface of the housing . In some embodiments the latch mechanism may be integrally formed with the housing . This enables the housing and latch mechanism to be formed together in a single or relatively few molding processes for instance.

At the distal end of the latch may be a depending tab or tooth to provide an engaging locking structure. The tab or tooth of the latch might engage or otherwise catch a portion of the platform for instance. In the embodiment shown the tab is a downward depending tab which extends below the bottom of the top horizontal surface A of the body portion. When installing the payload containment system to the platform the tab initially contacts the rear cross bar of the platform or the spacer s top surface if used as discussed below the tab is urged upwardly slightly causing the latch to pivot or flex back from its original position. As the payload containment system is being installed in or on the platform the tab will be maintained in this position while sliding across the top surface of the rear cross bar member or spacer until the tab clears the front surface of the cross bar member . At this instance the tab moves downward due to the latch s own resiliency. The latch may snap or otherwise flex or pivot downward thus putting the latch in locking engagement with the rear cross bar member in this example.

The lip depends forwardly from the lower end of the rear vertical surface B of the body portion . The lip and the top horizontal surface A are sufficiently spaced apart so as to accommodate the cross bar member of the platform in a generally conforming manner. In this way these surfaces maintain the payload containment system in generally one e.g. horizontal orientation and further limit movement of the system with respect to platform to substantially only one direction when at least one connector couples and uncouples with the corresponding at least one interface connector of the platform. Yaw and roll motion of the payload containment system with respect to the platform may be largely be prevented for example if the width of the housing and or overall exterior shape of the housing are substantially the same as that of the open bay area of the platform. Although in some embodiments the body portion of the latch mechanism may be further provided with sidewalls or other structure to prevent such motion.

The latch mechanism ensures the system can mate and conversely disengage with the platform connectors in substantially only one direction e.g. the horizontal direction. As such vertical pivotal pitch and or rotational movement of the system with respect to the platform is prevented when the connectors are being coupled or uncoupled and even while coupled during normal operations which could damage the connectors.

The length of the lip may be judiciously sized so that connector of the payload containment system will couple and uncouple with or otherwise mate with the corresponding connector of the platform while maintaining the system maintaining in substantially one orientation with respect to the platform. Here as shown that orientation may be the generally horizontal orientation with motion being limited in the forward and backward directions only. Thus the system cannot be rotated and or pivoted in a manner which could cause damage to the connectors. Indeed the connectors may be easily damaged if the orientation of the connectors is not properly maintained when coupling or uncoupling or even when mated during normal operations.

A handle may be provided on the latch opposite to the tab . For example the handle may be configured as a lever which can be manually grasped and or with a pry tool such as a blade or slotted screwdriver or crow bar to urge the tab upward to enable the tab to clear the rear cross bar member and thus permit removal of the system from the platform. In one embodiment the handle may have an ergonomic design which may be grasped by a person s fingers to manipulate the handle and could be appropriately sized to accommodate the person wearing gloves which could be beneficial for soldiers or other persons in the field.

When removing the payload containment system from the platform the latch is disengaged or released. This may include raising the handle so that the latch can clear the rear cross member . In that way the payload containment system can be moved horizontally toward the rear of the platform i.e. far enough that the lip is unobstructed by the rear cross bar member. The connector will uncouple before the lip has thus cleared the rear cross bar member advantageously then allowing the system to be raised and removed from the open bay area of the platform without damaging the connectors .

Portions of interior walls of the housing may be made thicker than others or further provided with reliefs chamfers projections or gusset plates to increase the rigidity of the housing if necessary.

Here the platform may be a Small Unmanned Ground Vehicle such as the Small Unmanned Ground Vehicle SUGV models Nos. 310 and 320 available from iRobot Corporation of Somerville Mass. for example. SUGV robotic platforms are typically used for gathering situational awareness by relaying video from onboard image sensors with the SUGV being remotely or tele operated.

Then as illustrated in the payload containment system is moved horizontally toward the front of the SUGV until the latch engages i.e. snaps over the SUGV rear cross member making the signal and power connection as well as securing the system into place. For instance the front bottom surface A of the housing may slide along the front region of the platform until the latch fully engages the cross member . One or more additional mechanical fasteners e.g. screws or bolts may be further used when operating in a more rugged terrain. The lid may be installed on the housing before or after installation although it would be preferred to do so well before installation in the field to prevent contaminants from entering the interior of the housing .

The two small circular indents A B and C shaped indent in the vicinity of the connector opening correspond to projections or reliefs provided on the platform as shown in . The larger circular indent in the corner corresponds to another relief element of the platform. The indents and projections or reliefs might also be reversed in some instances. When the payload containment system is installed in or on the platform the projections or reliefs on the platform can engage e.g. the projections or reliefs slide into the indents when the payload containment system is installed in or on the platform.

These complementary elements if provided may help better align the connectors before and during coupling uncoupling and further hold the payload containment system in place and prevent rotation and or pivoting movement of the payload containment system with respect to the platform thus preventing damage to the connector. The complementary indents projections or reliefs may be existing structure of the platform for example corresponding to a flange or other existing feature or specifically added to the platform structure for these purposes. It will be appreciated that the locations of the indents and projection or reliefs may vary from what is illustrated. The generally circular groove encircling the connector opening is configured to receive an EMI RFI or other environmental seal.

Secondly the wrap around body portion on the top A and rear surface B of the latch mechanism and the lip on the bottom of the latch mechanism prevent damage to the interface connectors when being coupled and uncoupled and even during normal operations. When removing the payload containment system from the SUGV platform the latch may be disengaged and raised to clear the SUGV rear cross bar member . The payload containment system can be moved horizontally toward the rear of the SUGV far enough that the lip is unobstructed by the rear cross bar member allowing the system to be raised upward vertically from the open bay area . The 21 pin connectors will uncouple before the lip has sufficient clearance to allow the payload container system to be raised and subsequently removed from the open bay area of the platform thus preventing damage to the connectors e.g. bent pins contacts cracked wall etc. .

In this way the payload containment systems provide a modular adaptable packaging mechanism to accommodate current and changing electro mechanical technologies for the platform. The releasable latch mechanism of the modules enables for rapid quick change or replacement of the payload containment systems and functionality of platform.

In some modular systems according to embodiments a plurality of payload containment systems may be provided in which the systems can be installed in the same platform with at least two systems having different component configurations. Electronic and hardware components or system level payloads can be subsequently added or exchanged based upon mission requirements. But multiple platforms might also provided in other embodiments whether the same type or different.

Various modular configurations for a robotic platform may include but are not necessarily limited to the following 1 an Accelerated 2 D Mapping and Exploration configuration for exploring unknown buildings at increased operational tempo and transmitting maps back to soldiers 2 a Platform Constrained 3 D Mapping for Urban Environments configuration for supporting operations of mobile robots for militarily relevant indoor outdoor transitions and supplying richer environmental data for autonomous planning and operator visualization 3 an Adaptive Navigation for SUGVs in Military Environments configuration for understanding and mitigating slip conditions to enable robust search based planning of autonomous tactical behaviors at relevant operational speeds and 4 a Multi Robot Tactical Behaviors configuration for leveraging the flexibility of heterogeneous robot teams to address problems of persistent surveillance communications maintenance and mapping. Future platform demands can also be upgradeable and adaptable to new technology at a later time. Components of the payload containment systems may vary for each of these configurations.

For some modular payload containment systems one or more dimensions of the housing may be altered. By making the sidewalls of the housing taller for instance larger internal components might be accommodated. This may be practical for instance in accommodating PCBs in a vertical upright orientation. Or one or more openings or cavities may be provided in the lid or housing to accommodate large or external components.

Photographs show an exemplary payload containment system installed in a SUGV according to aspects of the invention.

The payload containment system may be configured to augment the space which is conventionally used on the SUGV Model Nos. 310 and 320 for stowing the manipulator camera or head neck assemblies. The payload containment system maximizes the usable space by conforming to the open bay area of the SUGV. On the SUGV Model No. 310 the manipulator camera and carry handle are removed to take advantage of existing interfaces. Whereas on the SUGV Model No. 320 only the carry handle is removed. The head neck assembly can still be used in that configuration however it may no longer be able to be fully stowed when the payload containment system is installed.

According to various embodiments a payload integration kit may be provided to leverage with the mobility of an existing or commercially available platform thus changing or adding capabilities to the existing or commercially available platform. The payload integration kit may include a payload containment system as well as additional components needed to adapt the existing platform for use with the payload containment system.

For example as discussed above the spacer and nut bar or additional spacer may be provided as part of the payload integration kit which attach to the rear cross bar member of a platform in some embodiments. Additional fasteners may also be provided to further attach the payload containment system to the platform. Suitable instructions detailing installation of the payload integration kit might also be provided with the payload integration kit.

Additionally the payload containment systems described herein may provide a stand alone application which can supports testing and trouble shooting when connected to external power and communications. The systems may allow for more reliable experimentation critical in the laboratory as well as in field environments.

The relative positional terms e.g. vertical horizontal top bottom forward rear etc. used herein are based on the positions of the system illustrated in the drawings. It will be appreciated that these relative positions can change as the position of the system changes or may be different for other embodiments and orientations. As such the use of these relative positional terms in the above description should not be strictly construed as limiting in any manner and merely have been used for ease of discussion.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

