---

title: Pyrrolobenzodiazepines as antiproliferative agents
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09376440&OS=09376440&RS=09376440
owner: MEDIMMUNE LIMITED
number: 09376440
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20130430
---
This application is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT GB2013 051098 filed Apr. 30 2013 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 640 310 filed Apr. 30 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to pyrrolobenzodiazepines PBDs and in particular to PBD monomers with a 4 1 methyl 1H pyrrol 3 yl benzyl based amino acid residue containing substituent and methods of synthesising PBD monomers.

Some pyrrolobenzodiazepines PBDs have the ability to recognise and bond to specific sequences of DNA the preferred sequence is PuGPu. The first PBD antitumour antibiotic anthramycin was discovered in 1965 Leimgruber et al. 87 5793 5795 1965 Leimgruber et al. 87 5791 5793 1965 . Since then a number of naturally occurring PBDs have been reported and over 10 synthetic routes have been developed to a variety of analogues Thurston et al. 1994 433 465 1994 . Family members include abbeymycin Hochlowski et al. 40 145 148 1987 chicamycin Konishi et al. 37 200 206 1984 DC 81 Japanese Patent 58 180 487 Thurston et al. 26 767 772 1990 Bose et al. 48 751 758 1992 mazethramycin Kuminoto et al. 33 665 667 1980 neothramycins A and B Takeuchi et al. 29 93 96 1976 porothramycin Tsunakawa et al. 41 1366 1373 1988 prothracarcin Shimizu et al 35 972 978 1982 Langley and Thurston 52 91 97 1987 sibanomicin DC 102 Hara et al. 41 702 704 1988 Itoh et al. 41 1281 1284 1988 sibiromycin Leber et al. 110 2992 2993 1988 and tomamycin Arima et al. 25 437 444 1972 . PBDs are of the general structure 

They differ in the number type and position of substituents in both their aromatic A rings and pyrrolo C rings and in the degree of saturation of the C ring. In the B ring there is either an imine N C a carbinolamine NH CH OH or a carbinolamine methyl ether NH CH OMe at the N10 C11 position which is the electrophilic centre responsible for alkylating DNA. All of the known natural products have an S configuration at the chiral C11a position which provides them with a right handed twist when viewed from the C ring towards the A ring. This gives them the appropriate three dimensional shape for isohelicity with the minor groove of B form DNA leading to a snug fit at the binding site Kohn In . Springer Verlag New York pp. 3 11 1975 Hurley and Needham VanDevanter 19 230 237 1986 . Their ability to form an adduct in the minor groove enables them to interfere with DNA processing hence their use as antitumour agents. The synthesis of the compounds has been reviewed in Thurston D. E. et al. 1994 94 433 465 and Thurston D. E. et al. 2011 111 2815 2864.

In WO 2005 085177 some of the present inventors disclosed amino acids comprising a biaryl core that could have useful properties in DNA binding.

The inventors have now discovered that the properties particularly cytoxicity and DNA binding of the prior art PBD conjugates can be improved. In particular the present invention relates to the incorporation of a single 4 1 methyl 1H pyrrol 3 yl benzyl based amino acid residue in combination with a single heteroaryl based amino acid residue in a PBD conjugate results in highly effective compounds.

where R and R are independently selected from optionally substituted Calkyl Cheterocyclyl and Caryl groups 

where Q is selected from O S and NH and Ris H or Calkyl or H and SOM where x is 2 or 3 and M is a monovalent pharmaceutically acceptable cation 

A third aspect of the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the first aspect of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

A fourth aspect of the present invention provides a compound of the first aspect of the invention for use in a method of therapy.

A fifth aspect of the present invention provides the use of a compound of the first aspect of the invention in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a proliferative disease. This aspect also provides a compound of the first aspect for use in a method of treatment of a proliferative disease.

A sixth aspect of the present invention provides a method of treatment of a patient suffering from a proliferative disease comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound of the first aspect or a composition of the third aspect.

In the fourth to sixth aspects of the invention the compound of the invention may be administered alone or in combination with other treatments either simultaneously or sequentially dependent upon the condition to be treated. In the third aspect of the invention the pharmaceutical composition may comprise one or more e.g. two three or four further active agents.

The phrase optionally substituted as used herein pertains to a parent group which may be unsubstituted or which may be substituted.

Unless otherwise specified the term substituted as used herein pertains to a parent group which bears one or more substitutents. The term substituent is used herein in the conventional sense and refers to a chemical moiety which is covalently attached to or if appropriate fused to a parent group. A wide variety of substituents are well known and methods for their formation and introduction into a variety of parent groups are also well known.

Calkyl The term Calkyl as used herein pertains to a monovalent moiety obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from a carbon atom of a hydrocarbon compound having from 1 to 7 carbon atoms which may be aliphatic or alicyclic and which may be saturated or unsaturated e.g. partially unsaturated fully unsaturated . Thus the term alkyl includes the sub classes alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl etc. discussed below.

Examples of saturated alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl C ethyl C propyl C butyl C pentyl C hexyl C and heptyl C .

Examples of saturated linear alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl C ethyl C n propyl C n butyl C n pentyl amyl C n hexyl C and n heptyl C .

Examples of saturated branched alkyl groups include iso propyl C iso butyl C sec butyl C tert butyl C iso pentyl C and neo pentyl C .

CAlkenyl The term Calkenyl as used herein pertains to an alkyl group having one or more carbon carbon double bonds.

Examples of unsaturated alkenyl groups include but are not limited to ethenyl vinyl CH CH 1 propenyl CH CH CH 2 propenyl allyl CH CH CH isopropenyl 1 methylvinyl C CH CH butenyl C pentenyl C and hexenyl C .

Calkynyl The term Calkynyl as used herein pertains to an alkyl group having one or more carbon carbon triple bonds.

Examples of unsaturated alkynyl groups include but are not limited to ethynyl ethinyl C CH and 2 propynyl propargyl CH C CH .

Ccycloalkyl The term Ccycloalkyl as used herein pertains to an alkyl group which is also a cyclyl group that is a monovalent moiety obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from an alicyclic ring atom of a cyclic hydrocarbon carbocyclic compound which moiety has from 3 to 7 carbon atoms including from 3 to 7 ring atoms.

Cheterocyclyl The term Cheterocyclyl as used herein pertains to a monovalent moiety obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from a ring atom of a heterocyclic compound which moiety has from 3 to 20 ring atoms of which from 1 to 10 are ring heteroatoms. Preferably each ring has from 3 to 7 ring atoms of which from 1 to 4 are ring heteroatoms.

In this context the prefixes e.g. C C Cetc. denote the number of ring atoms or range of number of ring atoms whether carbon atoms or heteroatoms. For example the term Cheterocyclyl as used herein pertains to a heterocyclyl group having 5 or 6 ring atoms.

N aziridine C azetidine C pyrrolidine tetrahydropyrrole C pyrroline e.g. 3 pyrroline 2 5 dihydropyrrole C 2H pyrrole or 3H pyrrole isopyrrole isoazole C piperidine C dihydropyridine C tetrahydropyridine C azepine C O oxirane C oxetane C oxolane tetrahydrofuran C oxole dihydrofuran C oxane tetrahydropyran C dihydropyran C pyran C oxepin C S thiirane C thietane C thiolane tetrahydrothiophene C thiane tetrahydrothiopyran C thiepane C O dioxolane C dioxane C and dioxepane C O trioxane C N imidazolidine C pyrazolidine diazolidine C imidazoline C pyrazoline dihydropyrazole C piperazine C NO tetrahydrooxazole C dihydrooxazole C tetrahydroisoxazole C dihydroisoxazole C morpholine C tetrahydrooxazine C dihydrooxazine C oxazine C NS thiazoline C thiazolidine C thiomorpholine C NO oxadiazine C OS oxathiole C and oxathiane thioxane C and NOS oxathiazine C .

Examples of substituted monocyclic heterocyclyl groups include those derived from saccharides in cyclic form for example furanoses C such as arabinofuranose lyxofuranose ribofuranose and xylofuranse and pyranoses C such as allopyranose altropyranose glucopyranose mannopyranose gulopyranose idopyranose galactopyranose and talopyranose.

Caryl The term Caryl as used herein pertains to a monovalent moiety obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from an aromatic ring atom of an aromatic compound which moiety has from 3 to 20 ring atoms. Preferably each ring has from 5 to 7 ring atoms.

In this context the prefixes e.g. C C C etc. denote the number of ring atoms or range of number of ring atoms whether carbon atoms or heteroatoms. For example the term Caryl as used herein pertains to an aryl group having 5 or 6 ring atoms.

Examples of carboaryl groups include but are not limited to those derived from benzene i.e. phenyl C naphthalene C azulene C anthracene C phenanthrene C naphthacene C and pyrene C .

Examples of aryl groups which comprise fused rings at least one of which is an aromatic ring include but are not limited to groups derived from indane e.g. 2 3 dihydro 1H indene C indene C isoindene C tetraline 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalene C acenaphthene C fluorene C phenalene C acephenanthrene C and aceanthrene C .

Alternatively the ring atoms may include one or more heteroatoms as in heteroaryl groups . Examples of monocyclic heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to those derived from 

N imidazole 1 3 diazole C pyrazole 1 2 diazole C pyridazine 1 2 diazine C pyrimidine 1 3 diazine C e.g. cytosine thymine uracil pyrazine 1 4 diazine C 

C with 2 fused rings derived from benzofuran O isobenzofuran O indole N isoindole N indolizine N indoline N isoindoline N purine N e.g. adenine guanine benzimidazole N indazole N benzoxazole NO benzisoxazole NO benzodioxole O benzofurazan NO benzotriazole N benzothiofuran S benzothiazole NS benzothiadiazole NS C with 2 fused rings derived from chromene O isochromene O chroman O isochroman O benzodioxan O quinoline N isoquinoline N quinolizine N benzoxazine NO benzodiazine N pyridopyridine N quinoxaline N quinazoline N cinnoline N phthalazine N naphthyridine N pteridine N C with 2 fused rings derived from benzodiazepine N C with 3 fused rings derived from carbazole N dibenzofuran O dibenzothiophene S carboline N perimidine N pyridoindole N and C with 3 fused rings derived from acridine N xanthene O thioxanthene S oxanthrene O phenoxathiin OS phenazine N phenoxazine NO phenothiazine NS thianthrene S phenanthridine N phenanthroline N phenazine N .

The above groups whether alone or part of another substituent may themselves optionally be substituted with one or more groups selected from themselves and the additional substituents listed below.

Ether OR wherein R is an ether substituent for example a Calkyl group also referred to as a Calkoxy group discussed below a Cheterocyclyl group also referred to as a Cheterocyclyloxy group or a Caryl group also referred to as a Caryloxy group preferably a Calkyl group.

Alkoxy OR wherein R is an alkyl group for example a Calkyl group. Examples of Calkoxy groups include but are not limited to OMe methoxy OEt ethoxy O nPr n propoxy O iPr isopropoxy O nBu n butoxy O sBu sec butoxy O iBu isobutoxy and O tBu tert butoxy .

Acetal CH OR OR wherein Rand Rare independently acetal substituents for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocydyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group or in the case of a cyclic acetal group Rand R taken together with the two oxygen atoms to which they are attached and the carbon atoms to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring having from 4 to 8 ring atoms. Examples of acetal groups include but are not limited to CH OMe CH OEt and CH OMe OEt .

Hemiacetal CH OH OR wherein Ris a hemiacetal substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group.

Ketal CR OR OR where Rand Rare as defined for acetals and R is a ketal substituent other than hydrogen for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocydyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples ketal groups include but are not limited to C Me OMe C Me OEt C Me OMe OEt C Et OMe C Et OEt and C Et OMe OEt .

Hemiketal CR OH OR where Ris as defined for hemiacetals and R is a hemiketal substituent other than hydrogen for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocycyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of hemiacetal groups include but are not limited to C Me OH OMe C Et OH OMe C Me OH OEt and C Et OH OEt .

Imino imine NR wherein R is an imino substituent for example hydrogen Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably hydrogen or a Calkyl group. Examples of ester groups include but are not limited to NH NMe NEt and NPh.

Acyl keto C O R wherein R is an acyl substituent for example a Calkyl group also referred to as Calkylacyl or Calkanoyl a Cheterocyclyl group also referred to as Cheterocyclylacyl or a Caryl group also referred to as Carylacyl preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of acyl groups include but are not limited to C O CH acetyl C O CHCH propionyl C O C CH t butyryl and C O Ph benzoyl phenone .

Ester carboxylate carboxylic acid ester oxycarbonyl C O OR wherein R is an ester substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of ester groups include but are not limited to C O OCH C O OCHCH C O OC CH and C O OPh.

Acyloxy reverse ester OC O R wherein R is an acyloxy substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of acyloxy groups include but are not limited to OC O CH acetoxy OC O CHCH OC O C CH OC O Ph and OC O CHPh.

Oxycarboyloxy OC O OR wherein R is an ester substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of ester groups include but are not limited to OC O OCH OC O OCHCH OC O OC CH and OC O OPh.

Amino NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents for example hydrogen a Calkyl group also referred to as Calkylamino or di Calkylamino a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H or a Calkyl group or in the case of a cyclic amino group Rand R taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring having from 4 to 8 ring atoms. Amino groups may be primary NH secondary NHR or tertiary NHRR and in cationic form may be quaternary NRRR . Examples of amino groups include but are not limited to NH NHCH NHC CH N CH N CHCH and NHPh. Examples of cyclic amino groups include but are not limited to aziridino azetidino pyrrolidino piperidino piperazino morpholino and thiomorpholino.

Amido carbamoyl carbamyl aminocarbonyl carboxamide C O NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups. Examples of amido groups include but are not limited to C O NH C O NHCH C O N CH C O NHCHCH and C O N CHCH as well as amido groups in which Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a heterocyclic structure as in for example piperidinocarbonyl morpholinocarbonyl thiomorpholinocarbonyl and piperazinocarbonyl.

Thioamido thiocarbamyl C S NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups. Examples of amido groups include but are not limited to C S NH C S NHCH C S N CH and C S NHCHCH.

Acylamido acylamino NRC O R wherein Ris an amide substituent for example hydrogen a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably hydrogen or a C alkyl group and Ris an acyl substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably hydrogen or a Calkyl group. Examples of acylamide groups include but are not limited to NHC O CH NHC O CHCH and NHC O Ph. Rand Rmay together form a cyclic structure as in for example succinimidyl maleimidyl and phthalimidyl 

Aminocarbonyloxy OC O NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups. Examples of aminocarbonyloxy groups include but are not limited to OC O NH OC O NHMe OC O NMe and OC O NEt.

Ureido N R CONRRwherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups and Ris a ureido substituent for example hydrogen a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably hydrogen or a Calkyl group. Examples of ureido groups include but are not limited to NHCONH NHCONHMe NHCONHEt NHCONMe NHCONEt NMeCONH NMeCONHMe NMeCONHEt NMeCONMe and NMeCONEt.

Imino NR wherein R is an imino substituent for example for example hydrogen a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H or a Calkyl group. Examples of imino groups include but are not limited to NH NMe and NEt.

Amidine amidino C NR NR wherein each R is an amidine substituent for example hydrogen a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H or a Calkyl group. Examples of amidine groups include but are not limited to C NH NH C NH NMe and C NMe NMe.

Thioether sulfide SR wherein R is a thioether substituent for example a Calkyl group also referred to as a Calkylthio group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of Calkylthio groups include but are not limited to SCHand SCHCH.

Disulfide SS R wherein R is a disulfide substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group also referred to herein as Calkyl disulfide . Examples of Calkyl disulfide groups include but are not limited to SSCHand SSCHCH.

Sulfine sulfinyl sulfoxide S O R wherein R is a sulfine substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfine groups include but are not limited to S O CHand S O CHCH.

Sulfone sulfonyl S O R wherein R is a sulfone substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group including for example a fluorinated or perfluorinated Calkyl group. Examples of sulfone groups include but are not limited to S O CH methanesulfonyl mesyl S O CF triflyl S O CHCH esyl S O CF nonaflyl S O CHCF tresyl S O CHCHNH tauryl S O Ph phenylsulfonyl besyl 4 methylphenylsulfonyl tosyl 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl closyl 4 bromophenylsulfonyl brosyl 4 nitrophenyl nosyl 2 naphthalenesulfonate napsyl and 5 dimethylamino naphthalen 1 ylsulfonate dansyl .

Sulfinate sulfinic acid ester S O OR wherein R is a sulfinate substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocycyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfinate groups include but are not limited to S O OCH methoxysulfinyl methyl sulfinate and S O OCHCH ethoxysulfinyl ethyl sulfinate .

Sulfonate sulfonic acid ester S O OR wherein R is a sulfonate substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocycyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfonate groups include but are not limited to S O OCH methoxysulfonyl methyl sulfonate and S O OCHCH ethoxysulfonyl ethyl sulfonate .

Sulfinyloxy OS O R wherein R is a sulfinyloxy substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfinyloxy groups include but are not limited to OS O CHand OS O CHCH.

Sulfonyloxy OS O R wherein R is a sulfonyloxy substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfonyloxy groups include but are not limited to OS O CH mesylate and OS O CHCH esylate .

Sulfate OS O OR wherein R is a sulfate substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfate groups include but are not limited to OS O OCHand SO O OCHCH.

Sulfamyl sulfamoyl sulfinic acid amide sulfinamide S O NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups. Examples of sulfamyl groups include but are not limited to S O NH S O NH CH S O N CH S O NH CHCH S O N CHCH and S O NHPh.

Sulfonamido sulfinamoyl sulfonic acid amide sulfonamide S O NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups. Examples of sulfonamido groups include but are not limited to S O NH S O NH CH S O N CH S O NH CHCH S O N CHCH and S O NHPh.

Sulfamino NR S O OH wherein Ris an amino substituent as defined for amino groups. Examples of sulfamino groups include but are not limited to NHS O OH and N CH S O OH.

Sulfonamino NRS O R wherein Ris an amino substituent as defined for amino groups and R is a sulfonamino substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocycyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfonamino groups include but are not limited to NHS O CHand N CH S O CH.

Sulfinamino NRS O R wherein Ris an amino substituent as defined for amino groups and R is a sulfinamino substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfinamino groups include but are not limited to NHS O CHand N CH S O CH.

Phosphino phosphine PR wherein R is a phosphino substituent for example H a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphino groups include but are not limited to PH P CH P CHCH P t Bu and P Ph .

Phosphinyl phosphine oxide P O R wherein R is a phosphinyl substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphinyl groups include but are not limited to P O CH P O CHCH P O t Bu and P O Ph .

Phosphonate phosphono ester P O OR where R is a phosphonate substituent for example H a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphonate groups include but are not limited to P O OCH P O OCHCH P O O t Bu and P O OPh .

Phosphate phosphonooxy ester OP O OR where R is a phosphate substituent for example H a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphate groups include but are not limited to OP O OCH OP O OCHCH OP O O t Bu and OP O OPh .

Phosphite OP OR where R is a phosphite substituent for example H a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphite groups include but are not limited to OP OCH OP OCHCH OP O t Bu and OP OPh .

Phosphoramidite OP OR NR where Rand Rare phosphoramidite substituents for example H a optionally substituted Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphoramidite groups include but are not limited to OP OCHCH N CH OP OCHCH N i Pr and OP OCHCHCN N i Pr .

Phosphoramidate OP O OR NR where Rand Rare phosphoramidate substituents for example H a optionally substituted Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphoramidate groups include but are not limited to OP O OCHCH N CH OP O OCHCH N i Pr and OP O OCHCHCN N i Pr .

Nitrogen protecting groups are well known in the art Preferred nitrogen protecting groups are carbamate protecting groups that have the general formula 

A large number of possible carbamate nitrogen protecting groups are listed on pages 706 to 771 of Wuts P. G. M. and Greene T. W. Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 4Edition Wiley Interscience 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Particularly preferred protecting groups include Alloc Troc Teoc BOC Doc Hoc TcBOC Fmoc 1 Adoc and 2 Adoc.

Hydroxyl protecting groups are well known in the art. A large number of suitable groups are described on pages 16 to 366 of Wuts P. G. M. and Greene T. W. Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 4Edition Wiley Interscience 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Classes of particular interest include silyl ethers methyl ethers alkyl ethers benzyl ethers esters benzoates carbonates and sulfonates.

One of ordinary skill in the art is readily able to determine whether or not a candidate compound treats a proliferative condition for any particular cell type. For example assays which may conveniently be used to assess the activity offered by a particular compound are described in the examples below.

The term proliferative disease pertains to an unwanted or uncontrolled cellular proliferation of excessive or abnormal cells which is undesired such as neoplastic or hyperplastic growth whether in vitro or in vivo.

Examples of proliferative conditions include but are not limited to benign pre malignant and malignant cellular proliferation including but not limited to neoplasms and tumours e.g. histocytoma glioma astrocyoma osteoma cancers e.g. lung cancer small cell lung cancer hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer bowel cancer colon cancer hepatoma breast cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer testicular cancer liver cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma head and neck cancer bladder cancer pancreas cancer brain cancer sarcoma osteosarcoma Kaposi s sarcoma melanoma leukemias psoriasis bone diseases fibroproliferative disorders e.g. of connective tissues and atherosclerosis. Cancers of particular interest include but are not limited to leukemias and ovarian cancers.

Any type of cell may be treated including but not limited to lung gastrointestinal including e.g. bowel colon breast mammary ovarian prostate liver hepatic kidney renal bladder pancreas brain and skin.

Cancers of particular interest include but are not limited to breast cancer both ER positive and ER negative pancreatic cancer lung Cancer and leukaemia.

As described above the present invention provides the use of a compound of the first aspect of the invention in a method of therapy.

The term therapeutically effective amount is an amount sufficient to show benefit to a patient. Such benefit may be at least amelioration of at least one symptom. The actual amount administered and rate and time course of administration will depend on the nature and severity of what is being treated. Prescription of treatment e.g. decisions on dosage is within the responsibility of general practitioners and other medical doctors.

A compound may be administered alone or in combination with other treatments either simultaneously or sequentially dependent upon the condition to be treated. Examples of treatments and therapies include but are not limited to chemotherapy the administration of active agents including e.g. drugs surgery and radiation therapy.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen 2 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethylethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX and doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN Akti 1 2 HPPD and rapamycin.

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 Mek inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 Mek inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline lonafamib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifarnib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg II vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chloranmbucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CBI TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlomaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma1I calicheamicin omegaI1 . 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin nemorubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfomithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA Roche ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylomithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HERexpression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the conjugates of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

Pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention and for use in accordance with the present invention may comprise in addition to the active ingredient i.e. a compound of formula I a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient carrier buffer stabiliser or other materials well known to those skilled in the art. Such materials should be non toxic and should not interfere with the efficacy of the active ingredient. The precise nature of the carrier or other material will depend on the route of administration which may be oral or by injection e.g. cutaneous subcutaneous or intravenous.

Pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration may be in tablet capsule powder or liquid form. A tablet may comprise a solid carrier or an adjuvant. Liquid pharmaceutical compositions generally comprise a liquid carrier such as water petroleum animal or vegetable oils mineral oil or synthetic oil. Physiological saline solution dextrose or other saccharide solution or glycols such as ethylene glycol propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol may be included. A capsule may comprise a solid carrier such a gelatin.

For intravenous cutaneous or subcutaneous injection or injection at the site of affliction the active ingredient will be in the form of a parenterally acceptable aqueous solution which is pyrogen free and has suitable pH isotonicity and stability. Those of relevant skill in the art are well able to prepare suitable solutions using for example isotonic vehicles such as Sodium Chloride Injection Ringer s Injection Lactated Ringer s Injection. Preservatives stabilisers buffers antioxidants and or other additives may be included as required.

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that appropriate dosages of the compound can vary from patient to patient. Determining the optimal dosage will generally involve the balancing of the level of therapeutic benefit against any risk or deleterious side effects. The selected dosage level will depend on a variety of factors including but not limited to the activity of the particular compound the route of administration the time of administration the rate of excretion of the compound the duration of the treatment other drugs compounds and or materials used in combination the severity of the condition and the species sex age weight condition general health and prior medical history of the patient. The amount of compound and route of administration will ultimately be at the discretion of the physician veterinarian or clinician although generally the dosage will be selected to achieve local concentrations at the site of action which achieve the desired effect without causing substantial harmful or deleterious side effects.

Administration can be effected in one dose continuously or intermittently e.g. in divided doses at appropriate intervals throughout the course of treatment. Methods of determining the most effective means and dosage of administration are well known to those of skill in the art and will vary with the formulation used for therapy the purpose of the therapy the target cell s being treated and the subject being treated. Single or multiple administrations can be carried out with the dose level and pattern being selected by the treating physician veterinarian or clinician.

In general a suitable dose of the active compound is in the range of about 100 ng to about 25 mg more typically about 1 g to about 10 mg per kilogram body weight of the subject per day. Where the active compound is a salt an ester an amide a prodrug or the like the amount administered is calculated on the basis of the parent compound and so the actual weight to be used is increased proportionately.

In one embodiment the active compound is administered to a human patient according to the following dosage regime about 100 mg 3 times daily.

In one embodiment the active compound is administered to a human patient according to the following dosage regime about 150 mg 2 times daily.

In one embodiment the active compound is administered to a human patient according to the following dosage regime about 200 mg 2 times daily.

For the prevention or treatment of disease the appropriate dosage of the compound of the invention will depend on the type of disease to be treated as defined above the severity and course of the disease whether the molecule is administered for preventive or therapeutic purposes previous therapy the patient s clinical history and response to the antibody and the discretion of the attending physician. The molecule is suitably administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments. Depending on the type and severity of the disease about 1 g kg to 15 mg kg e.g. 0.1 20 mg kg of molecule is an initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient whether for example by one or more separate administrations or by continuous infusion. A typical daily dosage might range from about 1 g kg to 100 mg kg or more depending on the factors mentioned above. An exemplary dosage of compound to be administered to a patient is in the range of about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg of patient weight. For repeated administrations over several days or longer depending on the condition the treatment is sustained until a desired suppression of disease symptoms occurs. An exemplary dosing regimen comprises a course of administering an initial loading dose of about 4 mg kg followed by additional doses every week two weeks or three weeks of a compound. Other dosage regimens may be useful. The progress of this therapy is easily monitored by conventional techniques and assays.

Unless otherwise specified included in the above are the well known ionic salt solvate and protected forms of these substituents. For example a reference to carboxylic acid COOH also includes the anionic carboxylate form COO a salt or solvate thereof as well as conventional protected forms. Similarly a reference to an amino group includes the protonated form NHRR a salt or solvate of the amino group for example a hydrochloride salt as well as conventional protected forms of an amino group. Similarly a reference to a hydroxyl group also includes the anionic form O a salt or solvate thereof as well as conventional protected forms.

Certain compounds may exist in one or more particular geometric optical enantiomeric diasteriomeric epimeric atropic stereoisomeric tautomeric conformational or anomeric forms including but not limited to cis and trans forms E and Z forms c t and r forms endo and exo forms R S and meso forms D and L forms d and l forms and forms keto enol and enolate forms syn and anti forms synclinal and anticlinal forms and forms axial and equatorial forms boat chair twist envelope and halfchair forms and combinations thereof hereinafter collectively referred to as isomers or isomeric forms .

Preferably compounds of the present invention have the following stereochemistry at the C11 position 

Note that except as discussed below for tautomeric forms specifically excluded from the term isomers as used herein are structural or constitutional isomers i.e. isomers which differ in the connections between atoms rather than merely by the position of atoms in space . For example a reference to a methoxy group OCH is not to be construed as a reference to its structural isomer a hydroxymethyl group CHOH. Similarly a reference to ortho chlorophenyl is not to be construed as a reference to its structural isomer meta chlorophenyl. However a reference to a class of structures may well include structurally isomeric forms falling within that class e.g. Calkyl includes n propyl and iso propyl butyl includes n iso sec and tert butyl methoxyphenyl includes ortho meta and para methoxyphenyl .

The above exclusion does not pertain to tautomeric forms for example keto enol and enolate forms as in for example the following tautomeric pairs keto enol illustrated below imine enamine amide imino alcohol amidine amidine nitroso oxime thioketone enethiol N nitroso hyroxyazo and nitro aci nitro.

Note that specifically included in the term isomer are compounds with one or more isotopic substitutions. For example H may be in any isotopic form including H H D and H T C may be in any isotopic form including C C and C O may be in any isotopic form including O and O and the like.

Unless otherwise specified a reference to a particular compound includes all such isomeric forms including wholly or partially racemic and other mixtures thereof. Methods for the preparation e.g. asymmetric synthesis and separation e.g. fractional crystallisation and chromatographic means of such isomeric forms are either known in the art or are readily obtained by adapting the methods taught herein or known methods in a known manner.

Unless otherwise specified a reference to a particular compound also includes ionic salt solvate and protected forms of thereof for example as discussed below.

It may be convenient or desirable to prepare purify and or handle a corresponding salt of the active compound for example a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts are discussed in Berge et al. 66 1 19 1977 .

For example if the compound is anionic or has a functional group which may be anionic e.g. COOH may be COO then a salt may be formed with a suitable cation. Examples of suitable inorganic cations include but are not limited to alkali metal ions such as Na and K alkaline earth cations such as Ca and Mg and other cations such as Al. Examples of suitable organic cations include but are not limited to ammonium ion i.e. NH and substituted ammonium ions e.g. NHR NHR NHR NR . Examples of some suitable substituted ammonium ions are those derived from ethylamine diethylamine dicyclohexylamine triethylamine butylamine ethylenediamine ethanolamine diethanolamine piperazine benzylamine phenylbenzylamine choline meglumine and tromethamine as well as amino acids such as lysine and arginine. An example of a common quaternary ammonium ion is N CH .

If the compound is cationic or has a functional group which may be cationic e.g. NHmay be NH then a salt may be formed with a suitable anion. Examples of suitable inorganic anions include but are not limited to those derived from the following inorganic acids hydrochloric hydrobromic hydroiodic sulfuric sulfurous nitric nitrous phosphoric and phosphorous.

Examples of suitable organic anions include but are not limited to those derived from the following organic acids 2 acetyoxybenzoic acetic ascorbic aspartic benzoic camphorsulfonic cinnamic citric edetic ethanedisulfonic ethanesulfonic fumaric glucheptonic gluconic glutamic glycolic hydroxymaleic hydroxynaphthalene carboxylic isethionic lactic lactobionic lauric maleic malic methanesulfonic mucic oleic oxalic palmitic pamoic pantothenic phenylacetic phenylsulfonic propionic pyruvic salicylic stearic succinic sulfanilic tartaric toluenesulfonic and valeric. Examples of suitable polymeric organic anions include but are not limited to those derived from the following polymeric acids tannic acid carboxymethyl cellulose.

It may be convenient or desirable to prepare purify and or handle a corresponding solvate of the active compound. The term solvate is used herein in the conventional sense to refer to a complex of solute e.g. active compound salt of active compound and solvent. If the solvent is water the solvate may be conveniently referred to as a hydrate for example a mono hydrate a di hydrate a tri hydrate etc.

Compounds of formula I include compounds where a nucleophilic solvent HO ROH RNH RSH adds across the imine bond of the PBD moiety which is illustrated below where the solvent is water or an alcohol ROH where Ris an ether substituent as described above 

These forms can be called the carbinolamine and carbinolamine ether forms of the PBD. The balance of these equilibria depend on the conditions in which the compounds are found as well as the nature of the moiety itself.

Compounds of formula I where Rand Rtogether form a double bond may be synthesised from compounds of formula 2 

R is a nitrogen protecting group and R is O R wherein Ris H or a hydroxyl protecting group. Such techniques are well known in the art and are described for example in Wuts P. G. M. and Greene T. W. Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 4Edition Wiley Interscience 2007. If both nitrogen and hydroxyl protecting groups are present these are preferably selected to be removable by the same conditions.

If this deprotection is carried out in a solvent of formula HQR then Rand Rwill be H and QRrespectively. Alternatively these groups may be introduced by adding the compound to a different solvent to that in which the deprotection is carried out.

The conversion of compounds of formula I as discussed above to those having Ras SOM may be achieved by the addition of the appropriate bisulphite salt or sulphinate salt followed by a purification step. Further methods are described in GB 2 053 894 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Compounds of formula 5 can be synthesised in general following the methods described in WO 00 12506 and WO 2007 039752 which are herein incorporated by reference. In particular the butanoic acid side chain can be introduced at any stage in the synthesis usually with appropriate protecting groups in place. For example the side chain can be formed by coupling a protected or precursor form to a hydroxy group on the bezene ring using e.g. Mitsunobo coupling.

Compounds of formula 4 can be synthesised using the methods disclosed in WO 2005 085177 which are incorporated herein by reference. Reference is also made to the disclosure of WO 2007 039752.

The ability of the compounds to bind to DNA and in particular oligonucleotides can be measured using an Ion Pair Reversed Phase HPLC assay as described in Rahman K. M. et al. 2009 131 13756 and Narayanaswamy M. et al. 2008 374 173. The DNA binding affinity can also be evaluated by using a calf thymus DNA thermal denaturation assay as described in Wells G. et al. 2006 49 5442 Jenkins T. C. et al. 1994 37 4529 and Gregson S. J. et al. 2001 44 737.

It may be preferred in any of the embodiments that the C2 carbon is a spcentre so that when Ris selected from any of the following groups 

In one embodiment Ris CHR. Within the PBD compound the group CHR may have either configuration shown below 

When Ris optionally substituted Caryl it may preferably be optionally substituted Caryl or Caryl. Rmay further preferably be optionally substituted phenyl optionally substituted napthyl optionally substituted pyridyl optionally substituted quinolinyl or isoquinolinyl. Of these groups optionally substituted phenyl is most preferred.

When Ris optionally substituted Caryl it may preferably bear one to three substituent groups with 1 and 2 being more preferred and singly substituted groups being most preferred. The substituents may be any position.

Where Ris a Caryl group a single substituent is preferably on a ring atom that is not adjacent the bond to the remainder of the compound i.e. it is preferably 1 or y to the bond to the remainder of the compound. Therefore where the Caryl group is phenyl the substituent is preferably in the meta or para positions and more preferably is in the para position.

Where Ris a Caryl group for example quinolinyl or isoquinolinyl it may bear any number of substituents at any position of the quinoline or isoquinoline rings. In some embodiments it bears one two or three substituents and these may be on either the proximal and distal rings or both if more than one substituent .

When Ris optionally substituted Caryl the substituents may be selected from halo hydroxyl ether formyl acyl carboxy ester acyloxy amino amido acylamido aminocarbonyloxy ureido nitro cyano and thioether.

When Ris optionally substituted Caryl the substituents may be selected from the group consisting of R OR SR NRR NO halo COR COR CONH CONHR and CONRR .

If a substituent on Ris ether it may in some embodiments be an alkoxy group for example a Calkoxy group e.g. methoxy ethoxy or it may in some embodiments be a Caryloxy group e.g. phenoxy pyridyloxy furanyloxy .

If a substituent on Ris Cheterocyclyl it may in some embodiments be Cnitrogen containing heterocyclyl group e.g. morpholino thiomorpholino piperidinyl piperazinyl. These groups may be bound to the rest of the PBD moiety via the nitrogen atom. These groups may be further substituted for example by Calkyl groups.

Particularly preferred substituents for Rinclude methoxy ethoxy fluoro chloro cyano bis oxy methylene methyl piperazinyl morpholino and methyl thienyl.

Particularly preferred substituted Rgroups include but are not limited to 4 methoxy phenyl 3 methoxyphenyl 4 ethoxy phenyl 3 ethoxy phenyl 4 fluoro phenyl 4 chloro phenyl 3 4 bisoxymethylene phenyl 4 methylthienyl 4 cyanophenyl 4 phenoxyphenyl quinolin 3 yl and quinolin 6 yl isoquinolin 3 yl and isoquinolin 6 yl 2 thienyl 2 furanyl methoxynaphthyl and naphthyl.

When Ris Csaturated aliphatic alkyl it may be methyl ethyl propyl butyl or pentyl. In some embodiments it may be methyl ethyl or propyl n pentyl or isopropyl . In some of these embodiments it may be methyl. In other embodiments it may be butyl or pentyl which may be linear or branched.

When Ris Csaturated cycloalkyl it may be cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl. In some embodiments it may be cyclopropyl.

In some embodiments one of R Rand Ris H with the other two groups being selected from H Csaturated alkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and cyclopropyl.

In other embodiments two of R Rand Rare H with the other group being selected from H Csaturated alkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and cyclopropyl.

In some embodiments the groups that are not H are selected from methyl and ethyl. In some of these embodiments the groups that are not H are methyl.

In one embodiment Ris halo or dihalo. In one embodiment Ris F or F which substituents are illustrated below as C3 and C4 respectively 

Rmay preferably selected from CH CH R where R is more preferably an optionally substituted Calkyl group and R where R is more preferably an optionally substituted Caryl group. Particularly preferred groups for Rinclude CH CH Me and an optionally substituted phenyl group.

In some embodiments Ris OR and more particularly OR where Ris independently optionally substituted Calkyl.

Rand Reither together form a double bond or are selected from H and QRrespectively where Q is selected from O S and NH and Ris H or Calkyl or H and SOM where x is 2 or 3 and M is a monovalent pharmaceutically acceptable cation 

In any of these embodiments X and Y may preferably be selected from CH and NMe CH and S N and NMe and N and S. X and Y may more preferably be selected from CH and NMe and N and NMe.

In any of these embodiments X and Y may preferably be selected from CH and NMe CH and S N and NMe and N and S. X and Y may more preferably be selected from CH and NMe and N and NMe.

Optical rotations were measured on an ADP 220 polarimeter Bellingham Stanley Ltd and concentrations c are given in g 100 mL. Melting points were measured using a digital melting point apparatus Electrothermal . IR spectra were recorded on a Perkin Elmer Spectrum 1000 FT IR Spectrometer. H and C NMR spectra were acquired at 300 K using a Bruker Advance NMR spectrometer at 400 and 100 MHz respectively. Chemical shifts are reported relative to TMS 0.0 ppm and signals are designated as s singlet d doublet t triplet dt double triplet dd doublet of doublets ddd double doublet of doublets or m multiplet with coupling constants given in Hertz Hz . A pro PBD numbering system is used for carbon and proton assignments for synthetic intermediates i.e. based on the final tricyclic PBD ring system . Mass spectrometry data were collected using a Waters Micromass ZQ instrument coupled to a Waters 2695 HPLC with a Waters 2996 PDA. Waters Micromass ZQ parameters used were Capillary kV 3.38 Cone V 35 Extractor V 3.0 Source temperature C. 100 Desolvation Temperature C. 200 Cone flow rate L h 50 De solvation flow rate L h 250. High resolution mass spectrometry data were recorded on a Waters Micromass QTOF Global in positive W mode using metal coated borosilicate glass tips to introduce the samples into the instrument. Thin Layer Chromatography TLC was performed on silica gel aluminum plates Merck 60 F and flash chromatography utilized silica gel Merck 60 230 400 mesh ASTM . Parallel reactions were carried out using a Radleys Green House Synthesizer and parallel purifications were carried out using an IST Vacmaster . For reactions carried out in parallel solvents were evaporated using a Genevac VC 2000D Genevac Technologies UK . Purified compounds were freeze dried using a Heto Lyolab 3000 freeze drier. Hydrogenation reactions were carried using UHP 60H hydrogen generator attached to a Parr hydrogenation apparatus. Synthetic building blocks were purchased from Maybridge Chemicals UK Bachem Chemicals USA and Sigma Aldrich UK . Reagents and solvents were purchased from Sigma Aldrich UK .

A solution of N methyl pyrrole 1 113.06 g 1.39 mol 1.0 eq in dry ether 350 mL was added drop wise over a period of 1 hour and 10 minutes to a stirred solution of trichloroacetyl chloride 254 g 1.39 mol 1.0 eq in dry ether 350 mL in a 2 L 3 necked flask. HCl gas produced in the reaction was removed by flushing with nitrogen. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for 1.5 hours and progress of the reaction was monitored regularly by TLC and LCMS. After 1.5 hours the reaction was quenched using 1 M KCOsolution. The reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 and the organic layers were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The crystalline residue was washed with n hexane and finally dried under vacuum. Yield 281.18 g 79.5 NMR compared with literature

IR FTIR v cm 3299 3121 3008 2954 1789 1674 1521 1406 1206 1100 980 881 757 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.42 1H dd J 4.4 1.6 Hz 6.97 1H t J 1.6 Hz 6.22 1H dd J 4.4 2.4 Hz 3.97 3H s C NMR CDCl 400 MHz 133.6 124.0 122.4 108.9 38.5.

NBS N Bromosuccinimide 2.36 g 13.24 mmol 1.0 equiv. was added to a stirred solution of 2 trichloroacetyl 1 methylpyrrole 2 3 g 13.24 mmol 1.0 equiv. in anhydrous THF 35 mL at 10 C. The reaction mixture was kept at 10 C. for 2 hours and then left to reach room temperature ca. 4 hours . Excess THF was evaporated in vacuum and the solid was re dissolved in a mixture of EtOAc n hexane 1 9 . The resulting mixture was filtered through a plug of silica and the filtrate was evaporated in vacuo. The resulting solid was recrystallised from n hexane to give 3 3.55 g 88 . IR FTIR v cm 3148 2956 1669 C O 1458 1215 1189 1062 923 842 823 748 678 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.46 1H d J 2.0 Hz 6.95 1H d J 1.6 Hz 3.95 3H s C NMR CDCl 100 MHz 172.4 132.8 124.6 132.2 96.1 38.7 EIMS m z EI calc. for CHsBrClNO M 305.38. LCMS analysis found 306.86 M H .

To a stirred solution of 1 4 bromo 1 methyl 1H pyrrol 2 yl 2 2 2 trichloroethanone 3 3.28 g 10.74 mmol 1 eq. in dry MeOH 30 mL a solution of sodium methoxide 0.5 mL was added by a syringe. The sodium methoxide solution was prepared from NaH 60 in mineral oil 43 mg 1.07 mmol 0.1 eq. which was previously washed with n hexane. The solution was heated to reflux over a period of 30 minutes when the TLC analysis showed complete consumption of the starting material. A few drops of concentrated HSOwere added to the solution to neutralise the base pH 2 . The excess MeOH was evaporated in vacuum and the resulting oil was redissolved in EtOAc 50 mL and washed with water 40 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 40 mL and the organic phases were combined dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuum to afford the product as a pale white solid. 2.28 g 97 . IR FTIR v cm 3138 2948 1692 1472 1334 1245 1115 1082 921 823 753 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.89 d 1H J 2.0 Hz 6.76 d 1H J 2.0 Hz 3.89 s 3H 3.81 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 160.8 128.7 122.9 119.2 95.1 51.2 36.9 EIMS m z EI calc. for CHBrNO M 218.05. found 219.26 M H .

A catalytic amount of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium Pd PPh 0.477 g 0.413 0.06 eq was added to a solution of 4 1.5 g 6.88 mmol 1 eq and 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino phenyl boronic acid 1.57 g 6.88 mmol 1.20 eq in a 9 3 1 combination 13.5 ml of EtOH toluene and water in the presence of KCO 2.856 g 3 eq. in a 10 20 mL microwave vial containing a magnetic stirrer. The reaction vessel was flushed with nitrogen during each addition. The reaction mixture was sealed in an inert Natmosphere and heated with microwave radiation in an EMRYS Optimizer Microwave Station Personal Chemistry at 100 C. for 12 minutes. After LCMS and TLC analysis revealed completion of the reaction the cooled reaction mixture was diluted with water 50 mL extracted with EtOAc 3 40 mL the filtrates combined dried over MgSOand concentrated under vacuum. The resulting oil was subjected to flash chromatography n hexane EtOAc 9 1 to give 5 Yield 2.2 g 97 . IR FTIR v cm 3353 2975 1696 1521 1441 1366 1264 1235 1209 1058 822 799 657 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.40 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 7.33 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 7.16 d 1H J 2.0 Hz 7.02 d 1H J 2.0 6.45 br s 1H 3.95 s 3H 3.83 s 3H 1.52 s 9H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 161.7 152.8 136.5 129.5 125.9 125.6 123.7 123.0 119.0 114.6 80.5 51.1 36.9 28.4 EIMS m z EI calc. for CHNO M 330.38. found 330.46 M H .

A 0.5 M solution of NaOH 2.0 eq was added to a solution of 5 1.0 g 3.027 mmol in dioxane 40 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 6 hours at which point TLC revealed completion of reaction. Excess 1 4 dioxane was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was diluted with water. The resulting solution was acidified with 0.5 M HCl. The product was extracted from water with 2 ethyl acetate 100 mL 2 and the organic layers were combined washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The product was purified using flash chromatography ethyl acetate n hexane 2 8 . Yield 0.92 g 96.8 . IR FTIR v cm 3371 2979 1698 1671 1522 1445 1367 1285 1161 1112 1047 823 803 762 714 631 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.33 1H s 7.55 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 7.50 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 7.36 d 1H J 2.0 Hz 7.22 d 1H J 2.0 3.97 s 3H 1.50 s 9H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 162.3 153.7 138.6 123.0 127.1 126.0 124.4 124.0 119.5 115.1 79.9 36.9 28.6 EIMS m z EI calc. for CHNO M 316.35. found 315.16 M H .

5 1 g 3.027 mmol was dissolved in a small volume of MeOH and 4M HCl in dioxane 15 mL was added slowly to the stirring solution. The reaction mixture was stirred for 6 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Excess solvent was evaporated under vacuum to obtain a brown coloured solid 7. The solid product was subjected to flash chromatography n hexane EtOAc 9 1 to give pure 7 065 g 94.2 . IR FTIR v cm 3366 2987 1688 1629 1566 1422 1372 1262 1181 1103 1067 951 821 784 756 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.11 1H d J 2.0 Hz 6.96 1H d J 2.0 Hz 6.68 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 3.94 s 3H 3.83 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 161.7 144.7 126.2 125.4 125.2 115.5 114.4 51.0 36.8 EIMS m z EI calc. for CHNO M 230.26. found 231.1 M H .

0.2 g boc protected 6 0.63 mmol 1.2 eq was dissolved in DMF 5 mL to which 2.0 eq of EDCl and 2.5 eq of DMAP were added and the mixture was allowed to stir for 30 minutes. At this point methyl 4 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrrole 2 carboxylate 80.9 mg 0.52 mmol 1.0 eq was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir for a further 3 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. The reaction was quenched by pouring it onto a mixture of ice water mixture and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined extracts were sequentially washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 50 mL water 50 mL brine 50 mL and finally dried over MgSO. Excess ethyl acetate was evaporated by rotary evaporator under reduced pressure and the crude product was used for the boc deprotection step to afford 8 without further purification. For boc deprotection the crude product was dissolved in a small volume of MeOH and 4M HCl in dioxane 5 mL was added slowly to the stirring solution. The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Excess solvent was evaporated under vacuum to obtain a brown coloured solid 8 . The solid product was subjected to flash chromatography n hexane EtOAc 9 1 to give pure 8. Yield 0.21 gm 77 .

Two eq of EDCl and 2.5 eq of DMAP were added to a stirred solution of 6 0.45 gm 1.2 eq in DMF 8 mL and the mixture was allowed to stir for 30 minutes after which methyl 4 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrrole 2 carboxylate 0.18 g 1.18 mmol 1.0 eq was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for a further 6 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. The reaction was quenched by pouring it onto a mixture of ice water mixture and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 150 mL . The combined extracts were sequentially washed with citric acid 100 mL saturated aqueous NaHCO 100 mL water 100 mL brine 100 mL and finally dried over MgSO. Excess ethyl acetate was evaporated by rotary evaporator under reduced pressure and the crude product 9a 0.58 gm yield 90.6 was used for the boc deprotection step to afford 9 without further purification. For boc deprotection 0.29 gm of 9a was dissolved in a small volume of MeOH and 4M HCl in dioxane 15 mL was added slowly to the stirring solution. The reaction mixture was stirred for 6 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Excess solvent was evaporated under vacuum to obtain a brown coloured solid 9 . The solid product was subjected to flash chromatography n hexane EtOAc 9 1 to give pure 9. Yield 0.21 gm 95 .

Lithium hydroxide 68 mg 1.65 mmol 3 eq was added to 9a 0.25 g 0.55 mmol in aqueous dioxane 8 ml dioxane 4 ml water at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Dioxane was evaporated under high vacuum and the residue was diluted with water. The resulting solution was acidified with 1 M citric acid followed by extraction with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The organic layer combined and washed with brine 50 mL dried over MgSOand finally concentrated using a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure to obtain the hydrolysed acid form of 9a as a white solid yield 0.23 g 91.6 . To a stirring solution of the white solid 0.23 gm 0.52 nmol in DMF 2.0 equivalent of EDCl and 2.5 Equivalent of DMAP was added. After stirring the mixture for 20 minutes commercially available methyl 4 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrrole 2 carboxylate 80.1 mg 0.52 mmol 1.0 eq was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for a further 3 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. The reaction was quenched by pouring it onto a mixture of ice water mixture and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined extracts were sequentially washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 50 mL and brine 50 mL and finally dried over MgSO. Excess ethyl acetate was evaporated by rotary evaporator under reduced pressure and the crude product was used for the boc deprotection step to afford 10. For boc deprotection the crude intermediate was dissolved in a small volume of MeOH and 4M HCl in dioxane 5 mL was added slowly to the stirring solution. The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Excess solvent was evaporated under vacuum to obtain a brown coloured solid 10 . The solid product was subjected to flash chromatography n hexane EtOAc 8 2 to give pure 10. Yield 0.20 gm 83 over 2 steps. H NMR DMSO 400 MHz 9.72 1H s 8.09 1H t J 5.6 Hz 7.71 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.49 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.40 1H d J 2.0 Hz 7.27 1H d J 2.0 7.19 1H d J 2.0 7.03 1H dd J 4.0 1.6 Hz 7.00 1H t J 2.0 Hz 6.84 1H d J 2.0 Hz 6.10 1H m 3.89 3H s . m z EI calc. for CHNO M 474.51. found 475.35 M H .

0.3 gm of boc protected 6 0.94 mmol 1.2 eq was dissolved in DMF 5 mL to which 2.0 eq of EDCl and 2.5 eq of DMAP were added. The mixture was allowed to stir for 30 minutes after which methyl 4 amino 1 methyl 1H imidazole 2 carboxylate 0.121 g 0.79 mmol 1.0 eq was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for a further 6 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. The reaction was quenched by pouring it onto a mixture of ice water mixture and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 150 mL . The combined extracts were sequentially washed saturated aqueous NaHCO 50 mL water 50 mL brine 50 mL and finally dried over MgSO. Excess ethyl acetate was evaporated by rotary evaporator under reduced pressure and the crude product 11a 0.48 gm was used for the boc deprotection step to afford 11. For boc deprotection the crude intermediate was dissolved in a small volume of MeOH and 4M HCl in dioxane 5 mL was added slowly to the stirring solution. The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Excess solvent was evaporated under vacuum to obtain a brown coloured solid 11 . The solid product was subjected to flash chromatography n hexane EtOAc 9 1 to give pure 11. Yield 0.35 gm 81 over two steps.

A 0.5 M solution of NaOH made from 1.4135 g of NaOH was added to a solution of 12 Compound 18 WO 2007 039752 in dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for 4 hours at which point TLC showed completion of the reaction. Dioxane was evaporated under high vacuum and the residue was diluted with water. The resulting solution was acidified with 1 M citric acid followed by extraction with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 100 mL dried over MgSOand finally concentrated using a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure. Yield 8.7 g 94 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.2 2H s 6.90 1H s 6.58 1H s 5.85 2H d J 9.2 Hz 5.73 2H d J 9.2 Hz 5.03 5.13 m 6H 4.68 4.35 m 4H 4.09 4.01 m 4H 3.91 3.82 m 8H 3.69 3.46 m 8H 2.60 2.55 m 4H 2.18 2.00 m 10H 1.76 1.55 m 4H 1.53 1.43 m 8H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl3 177.6 167.6 149.8 132.1 131.9 126.7 117.3 114.9 110.8 100.7 96.0 91.7 88.5 67.9 66.6 63.6 60.1 56.1 46.5 31.1 30.3 28.8 25.2 24.1 23.2 20.0 EIMS m z EI calc. for C26H34N2O9 M 518.56. found 519.26 M H .

Lithium hydroxide 40 mg 1.65 mmol 3 eq was added to 11a 0.25 g 0.55 mmol in aqueous dioxane 8 ml dioxane 4 ml water at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Dioxane was evaporated under high vacuum and the residue was diluted with water. The resulting solution was acidified with 1 M citric acid followed by extraction with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The organic layer combined and washed with brine 50 mL dried over MgSOand finally concentrated using a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure to obtain the hydrolysed acid form of 17 as a white solid yield 0.235 g 97 which was used for the next reaction without any further purification. To a stirring solution 17 0.235 gm 0.54 nmol in DMF 2.0 equivalent of EDCl and 2.5 Equivalent of DMAP was added. After stirring the mixture for 20 minutes commercially available methyl 4 amino 1 methyl 1H imidazole 2 carboxylate 100.00 mg 0.54 mmol 1.2 eq was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for a further 3 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. The reaction was quenched by pouring it onto a mixture of ice water mixture and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined extracts were sequentially washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 50 mL and brine 50 mL and finally dried over MgSO. Excess ethyl acetate was evaporated by rotary evaporator under reduced pressure and the crude product was used for the boc deprotection step to afford 18 which was dissolved in a small volume of MeOH and 4M HCl in dioxane 5 mL was added slowly to the stirring solution. The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Excess solvent was evaporated under vacuum to obtain a brown coloured solid 19 . The solid product was subjected to flash chromatography n hexane EtOAc 8 2 to give pure 19. Yield 0.22 gm 85 over 2 steps.

A solution of Alloc THP protected PBD acid 13 3.72 g 7.16 mmol 1.2 equivalent was dissolved in DMF. EDCl 2.49 g 13.02 mmol 2.0 eq and DMAP 1.989 g 16.28 mmol 2.5 eq were added to the stirred solution of 13 at room temperature and the mixture was allowed to stir for 30 minutes after which the MPB ester 7 1.5 g 6.514 mmol 1.0 eq was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for a further 2 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. The reaction was quenched by pouring it onto a mixture of ice water mixture and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 150 mL . The combined extracts were sequentially washed with citric acid 200 mL saturated aqueous NaHCO 250 mL water 250 mL brine 250 mL and finally dried over MgSO. Excess ethyl acetate was evaporated by rotary evaporator under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by silica gel flash chromatography MeOH CHCl 20 80 to give a white foamy solid 15a. Yield 4.05 g 85.5 . FTIR v cm 2949 2362 1704 1600 1514 1436 1372 1269 1203 1107 1021 964 765. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.82 1H s 7.48 2H m 7.41 1H d J 2.0 Hz 7.40 1H d J 2.4 Hz 7.23 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.17 1H d J 2.0 Hz 7.04 1H d J 2.0 Hz 5.93 5.65 2H m 5.09 5.4.97 m 4H 4.68 4.32 m 4H 4.15 4.10 m 4H 3.94 3.82 m 12H 3.68 m 2H 3.59 3.49 m 6H 2.60 2.57 m 3H 2.15 2.00 m 8H 1.88 1.80 m 2H 1.79 1.70 6H 1.60 1.44 m 12H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 177.1 170.5 167.3 161.6 149.1 136.3 132.1 131.9 130.4 128.9 127.1 125.9 125.4 123.5 123.1 120.3 117.3 114.6 110.8 91.5 88.6 68.2 66.5 64.3 63.6 60.3 56.0 51.1 46.4 36.8 31.1 30.9 29.1 25.1 24.6 23.2 21.0 20.1 m z EI calc. for CHNO M 730.80. found 731.67 M H .

Palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 5.60 mg 4.8 M 0.05 equiv was added to a solution of Alloc THP PBD conjugate 15a 70 mg 0.097 mmol pyrrolidine 8.36 mg 0.117 mmol 1.2 eq and triphenylphosphine 8.62 mg 0.25 equiv in DCM 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Excess DCM was removed by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure and the resulting residue dried in vacuo to remove pyrrolidone. The product was purified by column chromatography eluted with n hexane 65 EtOAc 35 to give the product as a yellowish solid 3.37 40 mg 77 . 165 c 0.046 CHCl3 IR FTIR v cm 3297 2944 2358 1701 1598 1567 1508 1442 1374 1264 1212 1181 1106 1072 824 730 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.68 1H s 7.65 1H d J 4.5 Hz H 11 7.52 1H s H 6 7.46 2H dd J 8.4 2.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.40 2H dd J 8.4 2.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.16 1H d J 2.0 Hz Py H 7.03 1H d J 1.6 Hz Py H 6.82 1H s H 9 4.12 4.20 2H m CHside chain linker 3.94 3H s N CH 3.88 3H s O CH 3.68 3.71 1H m H 11a 3.50 3.60 2H m H2 3 2.58 2.62 2H m CH 2.26 2.31 4H m CH 1.50 1.54 2H m CH C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 164.5 162.4 161.6 150.5 147.8 140.7 125.9 125.5 2C 123.6 123.1 120.3 114.6 111.8 111.0 94.4 2C 68.0 63.7 56.1 53.7 51.0 46.6 36.8 31.9 29.6 25.2 24.8 24.1 20.2 HRMS m z EI calc. for CHNO M H 545.2400. found 545.2422 M H 4 ppm.

Compounds 15b d g h and 16b d g h were made in an analogous manner reacting compound A with 13 followed by deprotection.

 134 c 0.038 CHCl IR FTIR v cm 3850.89 3732 3619 2443 2354 2228 2169 2091 1971 1859 1729 1679 1521 1265 734 629 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.72 1H s NH 7.69 1H s NH 7.66 1H d J 4.0 Hz H 11 7.57 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.53 1H s H 6 7.46 4H d J 8.0 Hz 4Ar H 7.41 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.20 1H d J 2.0 Hz Py H 7.06 1H d J 2.0 Hz Py H 7.02 1H d J 1.6 Hz Py H 6.92 1H s Py H 6.84 1H s H 9 4.12 4.20 2H m CHside chain linker 4.00 3H s N CH 3.96 3H s N CH 3.88 3H s O CH 3.84 3H s O CH 3.70 3.73 1H m H 11a 3.55 3.61 2H m H 3 2.58 2.62 2H m CH 2.29 2.31 2H m CH 1.93 2.06 4H m CH C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 164.5 162.4 161.7 150.7 147.3 139.2 126.0 125.6 125.4 2C 125.2 2C 123.0 120.4 2C 114.6 2C 111.4 94.6 2C 68.3 63.7 56.1 51.6 2C 41.0 36.9 31.9 29.6 25.2 24.2 24.1 20.2 HRMS m z EI calc. for CHNO M H 743.3193. found 743.3193 M H 0.3 ppm .

 128 c 0.037 CHCl IR FTIR v cm 3321 2237 2107 2041 1967 1860 1685 1517 1435 1254 1180 1118 749 722 696 667 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.98 1H s NH 7.88 1H s NH 7.68 1H s H 6 7.65 1H d J 4.0 Hz H 11 7.64 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.54 1H d J 1.6 Hz Py H 7.52 1H d J 1.6 Hz Py H 7.45 1H d J 2.0 Hz Py H 7.33 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2Ar H 6.97 1H s Py H 6.89 1H s H 9 4.08 4.18 2H m CH 3.97 3H s N CH 3.89 3H s N CH 3.84 3H s O CH 3.79 3H s O CH 3.66 3.70 1H m H 11a 3.55 3.60 2H m H 3 2.56 2.61 2H m CH 2.23 2.32 4H m CH 2.00 2.05 2H m C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 162.5 161.6 159.1 150.4 147.7 138.4 132.8 132.1 131.9 2C 128.6 128.4 2C 125.4 2C 124.8 123.0 121.0 120.4 2C 116.2 114.6 2C 109.9 94.2 67.4 63.6 57.1 53.7 51.1 46.7 36.9 36.7 34.0 29.6 24.2 HRMS m z EI calc. for CHNO M 667.2880. found 667.2881 M H 0.1 ppm .

 122 c 0.028 CHCl IR FTIR v cm 3324 2355 2157 2109 2032 1913 1600 1533 1465 1262 1179 1109 751 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.47 1H s NH 7.72 1H s NH 7.66 1H d J 4.0 Hz H 11 7.55 1H s H 6 7.52 1H d J 2.0 Py H 7.49 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.37 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.16 1H d J 1.6 Hz Py H 7.03 1H s Im H 6.91 1H s H 9 4.39 4.43 2H m O CH 4.13 4.22 2H m CH 4.01 3H s N CH 3.99 3H s N CH 3.83 3H s O CH 3.68 3.72 1H m H 11a 3.55 3.60 2H m H 3 2.58 2.63 2H m CH 2.24 2.32 4H m CH 2.00 2.07 2H m H 1 141 1.45 3H m CH C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 163.1 162.5 158.7 150.4 147.7 140.7 137.2 131.5 125.6 2C 125.4 2C 123.8 123.0 120.4 2C 114.5 111.6 110.8 109.9 100.0 67.4 61.5 56.1 53.7 51.1 46.7 37.0 36.0 34.0 29.6 24.8 24.2 14.4 HRMS m z EI calc. for CHNO M 682.2989 found 682.2986 M H 0.4 ppm .

 149 c 0.054 CHCl IR FTIR v cm 3310 2947 2358 2168 2153 2132 2070 2011 1989 1651 1538 1434 1402 1257 1107 753 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.02 1H s NH 7.88 1H d J 5.2 Hz H 11 7.68 1H s H 6 7.67 1H d J 1.6 Hz Py H 7.64 1H d J 1.6 Hz Py H 7.53 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.45 1H d J 1.6 Hz Py H 7.31 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.20 1H s Py H 6.96 1H s Py H 6.89 1H bs NH 6.81 1H s H 9 6.78 1H d J 1.6 Hz Py H 6.71 1H bs NH 4.11 4.16 2H m CH 3.97 3H s N CH 3.92 3H s N CH 3.88 3H s N CH 3.84 3H s N CH 3.79 3H s O CH 3.68 3.71 1H m H 11a 3.55 3.60 2H m H 3 2.56 2.61 2H m CH 2.22 2.28 4H m CH 1.99 2.04 2H m HRMS m z EI calc. for CHNO M 790.3313 found 790.3314 M H 0.1 ppm.

 142 c 0.043 CHCl IR v cm 3408 2358 2168 2148 2019 1978 1938 1718 1534 1260 1118 757 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.72 1H s NH 8.12 1H s NH 7.71 1H s 7.65 1H d J 4.4 Hz 7.53 1H s 7.48 2H d J 8.0 Hz 7.47 1H s 7.42 2H d J 1.6 Hz 7.40 2H d J 8.0 Hz 7.03 1H d J 1.6 Hz 6.95 1H s 6.82 1H s 6.81 1H d J 1.6 Hz 4.12 4.21 2H m 4.07 3H s 4.00 3H s 3.91 3H s 3.89 3H s 3.81 3H s 3.69 3.72 1H m 3.55 3.61 2H m 2.58 2.63 2H m 2.26 2.32 4H m CH 2.02 2.07 2H m HRMS EI m z Calc. for CHNO MH 790.3313. Found 790.3314.

A solution of Alloc THP protected PBD acid 13 1.85 g 3.57 mmol 1.2 equivalent was dissolved in DMF. EDCl 1.24 g 6.48 mmol 2.0 eq and DMAP 0.99 g 8.1 mmol 2.5 eq were added to the stirred solution of 13 at room temperature and the mixture was allowed to stir for 30 minutes after which methyl 4 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrrole 2 carboxylate 0.5 g 3.243 mmol 1.0 eq was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for a further 6 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. The reaction was quenched by pouring it onto a mixture of ice water mixture and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 150 mL . The combined extracts were sequentially washed with citric acid 200 mL saturated aqueous NaHCO 250 mL water 250 mL brine 250 mL and finally dried over MgSO. Excess ethyl acetate was evaporated by rotary evaporator under reduced pressure and the crude product 1.88 gm was used for hydrolysis reaction to afford 14a. For hydrolysis Lithium hydroxide 0.24 g 5.71 mmol 3 eq was added to the crude product 1.88 g 2.87 mmol in aqueous dioxane 75 ml dioxane 11.5 ml water at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Dioxane was evaporated under high vacuum and the residue was diluted with water. The resulting solution was acidified with 1 M citric acid followed by extraction with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The organic layer combined and washed with brine 100 mL dried over MgSOand finally concentrated using a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure to obtain 14a as a white solid yield 1.68 gm 74.0 over 2 steps . H NMR 9.09 1H s NH 7.39 1H d J 2.0 Hz 7.14 1H s H 6 7.12 1H s H 6 6.96 1H s H 9 6.76 1H d J 2.0 Hz Py H 5.86 5.75 2H m H 11 5.13 4.84 3H m 4.61 4.21 2H m 4.06 3.88 3H m side chain H 1 pyran H 6 3.87 3H s O NCH3 3.87 3H s O NCH3 3.86 3H s 3.53 3.44 3H m 2.55 2.45 2H m 2.13 1.88 6H m 1.70 1.39 6H . m z EI calc. for CHNO M 640.68. found 641.57 M H .

A solution of Alloc THP protected PBD Py acid 14a 150 mg 0.23 mmol 1.0 equivalent was dissolved in DMF. EDCl 2.49 g 13.02 mmol 2.0 eq and DMAP 1.989 g 16.28 mmol 2.5 eq were added to the stirred solution of 13 at room temperature and the mixture was allowed to stir for 30 minutes after which the MPB ester 7 67.83 mg 0.29 mmol 1.25 eq was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for a further 3 hour at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. The reaction was quenched by pouring it onto a mixture of ice water mixture and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 150 mL . The combined extracts were sequentially washed with citric acid 50 mL saturated aqueous NaHCO 50 mL water 50 mL brine 50 mL and finally dried over MgSO. Excess ethyl acetate was evaporated by rotary evaporator under reduced pressure and the crude product was directly used in the next step without further purification. m z EI calc. for CHNO M 852.93. found 854.87 M H .

Palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 12.17 mg 10.5 M 0.05 equiv was added to a solution of Alloc THP PBD conjugate 15e 179 mg 0.21 mmol pyrrolidine 17.91 mg 0.25 mmol 1.2 eq and triphenylphosphine 13.81 mg 0.25 equiv in DCM 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h at which point TLC showed completion of reaction. Excess DCM was removed by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure and the resulting residue dried in vacuo to remove pyrrolidone. The product was purified by high performance liquid chromatography eluted with acetone water gradient with 1 TFA to give the product as a light yellowish solid 16e 48 mg 34 after HPLC purification .

 197 c 0.052 CHCl IR FTIR v cm 3330 2360 2214 2180 2041 2020 1999 1967 1698 1517 1438 1265 1180 1119 756 722 696 667 630 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.77 1H s NH 7.68 1H s H 6 7.67 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.64 1H d J 5.0 Hz H 11 7.55 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2Ar H 7.47 1H d J 2.0 Hz Py H 7.43 1H s NH 7.18 1H d J 2.0 Hz Py H 7.09 1H d J 2.0 Hz Py H 7.05 1H d J 2.0 Hz Py H 6.83 1H s H 9 4.09 4.16 2H m CH 3.95 3H s N CH 3.90 6H s N CH O CH 3.84 3H s O CH 3.67 3.71 1H m H 11a 3.54 3.57 2H m Hr 3 2.53 2.56 2H m CH 2.23 2.30 4H m CH 2.00 2.05 2H m C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 169.8 164.5 162.6 161.6 159.5 150.7 147.9 140.8 133.1 132.2 132.1 131.9 131.7 128.5 128.4 125.9 125.5 123.7 123.1 121.5 120.7 120.4 119.7 114.7 112.0 111.4 103.9 68.1 56.2 53.7 51.0 46.7 36.8 33.2 29.6 25.1 24.1 HRMS m z EI calc. for CHNO M 667.2880. found 667.2882 M H 0.3 ppm .

Compounds 14b 15f and 16f were made in an analogous manner reacting compound 13 with the imidazolyl building block followed by reaction with the MPB building block and finally by deprotection.

 188 c 0.052 CHCl IR FTIR v cm 3301 2169 2136 2018 1978 1937 1680 1564 1518 1439 1265 1181 1108 750 722 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.90 1H s NH 7.98 1H s NH 7.67 1H s H 6 7.63 1H d J 4.4 Hz H 11 7.59 2H d J 8.4 Hz 2Ar H 7.46 2H d J 8.4 Hz 2Ar H 7.42 1H s Im H 7.19 1H d J 2.0 Hz Py H 7.06 1H d J 1.6 Hz Py H 6.83 1H s H 9 4.10 4.22 2H m CH 4.07 3H s N CH 3.96 6H s N CH O CH 3.84 3H s O CH 3.67 3.70 1H m H 11a 3.54 3.58 2H m H 3 2.57 2.67 2H m CH 2.26 2.31 4H m CH 1.98 2.05 2H m C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 169.5 164.5 162.5 161.6 156.4 150.4 147.8 135.6 132.1 131.9 2C 128.5 128.4 126.0 125.6 123.5 123.1 121.5 119.7 114.6 2C 111.6 111.0 67.7 56.1 53.7 51.1 46.6 36.9 35.8 33.9 29.6 24.7 24.1 HRMS m z EI calc. for CHNO M 668.2833. found 668.2838 M H 0.5 ppm.

The cytotoxicity potential of the compounds of the invention 16c h was compared with the comparative compounds 16a 16b and GWL 78 in a number of tumour cell lines and the non cancer cell line WI38 after 96 hours exposure using the MTT 3 4 5 Dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide colorimetric assay as described below.

A panel of several types of human cancer cell lines including epidermoid A431 lung A549 ovarian A2780 and breast MCF7 and MDAMB 231 as well as the non tumour cell line WI38 were used to determine the cytotoxicity of the compounds. The cells were grown in normal conditions at 37 C. under a 5 COhumidified atmosphere either in Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium or Modified Eagle Medium depending on the cell line supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum Biosera UK 1 L glutamine 1 non essential amino acids and 0.05 hydrocortisone Gibco Invitrogen USA . Cells were then seeded into 96 well plates in a total volume of 160 l and allowed to reach a 30 40 degree of confluence before starting the experiment. The ligands were dissolved in sterilized ultrapure water at a maximum concentration of 100 M and serial decimal dilutions prepared. These were added to the cells in a volume of 40 l. After 96 hours of continuous exposure to each ligand the cytotoxicity was determined by the MTT 3 4 5 Dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide Lancaster Synthesis Ltd UK colorimetric assay Skehan P S. R. et al. 1990 82 1107 . Absorbance was quantified by spectrophotometry at A 570 nm ELx808 Bio Tek Instruments Inc. USA . ICvalues were calculated by a dose response analysis using the Origin 6.0 software.

The cytotoxicity potential of the compounds of the invention 16c h was also compared with the comparative compounds 16a 16b and GWL 78 in a primary CLL cell lines using the Annexin V assay van Engeland M et al. Cytometry 1998 31 1 9 as described below.

Freshly isolated peripheral blood CLL cells 1 10mL were cultured in RPMI medium Invitrogen Paisley U.K. supplemented with 100 U mL penicillin 100 mg mL streptomycin and 10 fetal calf serum. The cells were incubated at 37 C. in a humidified 5 COatmosphere in the presence of each compound. All compounds were dissolved in DMSO and were evaluated in serial dilutions against the primary CLL cells. In addition control cultures were carried out to which no drug was added. The cytotoxic effects of the compounds were quantified using an annexin V propidium iodide flow cytometry assay Bender Medsystems Vienna Austria . All assays were performed in duplicate and LDvalues were calculated from sigmoidal dose response curves using the Prism 6.0 software Graphpad Software Inc. San Diego Calif. . The sigmoidal dose response curves were derived by plotting log compound concentration against the percentage apoptosis induced by that concentration. A wide range of concentrations were used to establish the biologically active range for each individual compound.

16e and 16f were tested in in vivo xenograft studies in mouse models of both breast and pancreatic cancer.

Initially a small scale study was carried out to determine the MTD maximum tolerated dose in Swiss Webster mice using intraperitoneal dosing IP . The compounds were generally well tolerated without any signs of toxicity. However a minor weight loss was observed at a dose level of 400 g Kg day dose level for 16e . Some insignificant weight loss for 16f was also observed at the same dose level. A repeat MTD experiment using only 16f at 350 g Kg day did not show any weight loss or other signs of toxicity . As 16f provided a marginally better toxicity profile in the MTD study it was decided to carry out more extensive in vivo tumour xenograft studies on this molecule.

In vivo studies of the activity of 16f were carried out in an ER negative MDA MB 231 breast cancer xenograft in a mouse model. The human breast cancer cell line MDA MB 231 5 10cells was employed to establish xenografts in the flanks of female MF1 nude mice 2 3 months old and weighing 20 25 g. Subsequent passaging was by the subcutaneous implantation of small tumour pieces approx 1 mm into the flank. When the tumours reached approx. 0.06 cm three weeks post implantation they were divided into 3 groups of 4 mice. The drug treated groups were administered with an IV dose in DMSO of either 250 g Kg day or 300 g Kg day for 5 consecutive days followed by two drug free days for 3 weeks followed by 2 consecutive days in week 4 at which point the dosage was stopped. As shown in 16f produced prominent in vivo antitumour activity compared to control mice at both 250 g Kg and 300 g Kg dose levels without any signs of toxicity where the arrow shows the last injected dose . The tumour did not re grow up to 3 weeks after administration of the last IV dose in the case of the 300 g Kg dose level.

An in vivo study of 16f was carried out in a pancreatic cancer xenograft mouse model in a similar manner to the above. The drug 16f treated group was administered an IV dose of 300 g Kg day for 5 consecutive days followed by 2 drug free days and the cycle was continued for 3 weeks. 16f produced prominent antitumour activity compared to control mice at the 300 g Kg dose level without any signs of toxicity 300 g Kg 16f control . The inability of the tumour to grow back immediately after withdrawing drug was notable and no growth was observed up to 21 days after the last administered dose. Cross sections from the tumour and control tissues were subjected to immunohistochemical staining and the findings were consistent with NF B inhibition in the experimental animals compared to controls.

16f was evaluated in a commercial Transcription Factor Activation Profiling Array Assay Signosis using the HeLa cell line. In this assay the activities of 48 transcription factors could be monitored simultaneously using a collection of biotin labeled DNA probes based on the consensus sequences of individual transcription factor DNA binding sites. The top five transcription factors whose activities were at least 30 down regulated by 7 h at a concentration of 10 nM for 4 hours were NFAT EGR NF B SMAD and OCT 4. The activity of NF B was reduced by almost 50 .

Based on the hypothesis that 16f may down regulate the expression of NF B dependent genes e.g. I B BCL2 BCLX by binding to the cognate DNA sequence of NF B thereby blocking interaction of the transcription factor protein and inhibiting transcription of a number of genes it was decided to explore this possibility in CLL cells in which NF B signaling is known to be active and closely correlates with the initiation and progression of malignancy. Using levels of phosphorylated I B and p65 as surrogates for NF B activity in comparison to the Actin protein as a control Western Blotting indicated that after 24 hours incubation 16f caused a significant suppression of phosphorylated I B at concentrations down to 0.1 nM with only a marginal effect on phosphorylated p65.

