---

title: Cameras and image processing methods for respecting recording restrictions
abstract: Cameras and image processing methods for respecting recording restrictions are described, including a camera with at least one lens, at least one processor, and memory. The camera can detect an external signal; determine that the external signal indicates a restriction in recording; and based on the restriction, either disable recording or record an image or a video with a region of the image obfuscated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09083937&OS=09083937&RS=09083937
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09083937
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The subject matter discussed herein relates generally to cameras and image processing and more particularly to cameras and image processing methods for respecting recording restrictions.

Conventionally cameras are devices that are dedicated to performing the camera functions e.g. capturing still images and videos . The conventional cameras were large and easy to detect. People carried such conventional cameras primarily for special occasions.

Current related art cameras that can take still images and videos are smaller and more integrated with daily life. Cameras are small enough to be embedded in many devices such as mobile telephones computers tablet devices helmets eyewear e.g. eye and pens etc.

With the proliferation of cameras it has become difficult for individuals and businesses to keep something that is private such as their faces or business secrets from being recorded. An individual walking down the street may not want his or her face to show up in the background of a video on a video sharing website. On the recording side the person taking the image or video may not want to record an unwilling individual or restricted object.

Cameras and image processing methods for respecting recording restrictions are described including a camera with at least one lens at least one processor and memory. The camera can detect an external signal determine that the external signal indicates a restriction in recording and based on the restriction either disable recording or record an image or a video with a region of the image obfuscated.

According to another example implementation a camera implemented method for image processing is provided comprising detecting a recording restriction signal from an external source determining that the recording restriction signal is a privacy restriction calculating a restricted region based on the privacy restriction recording one or more images at least one of the images having the calculated restricted region obfuscated and storing the at least one of the images.

According to yet another example implementation a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein computer executable instructions is provided for detecting a recording restriction signal from an external source determining that the recording restriction signal is a privacy restriction calculating a restricted region based on the privacy restriction recording one or more images at least one of the images has the calculated restricted region obfuscated and storing the at least one of the images.

The subject matter described herein is taught by way of example implementations. Various details have been omitted for the sake of clarity and to avoid obscuring the subject matter. The examples shown below are directed to structures and functions of cameras and image processing methods for respecting recording restrictions.

When camera is positioned with its lens towards signal transmitter the signals or light emitted from signal transmitter are received or detected by camera e.g. by sensor to indicate that there are recording restrictions in front of camera .

In some implementation signal transmitter may be a source that transmits infrared IR light referred to as a light source . Light source emits light that is invisible to human eyes but can be detected or received by sensor . Some cameras may detect the IR light through lens using a CCD or CMOS. Other alternative sensors may be substituted therefor without departing from the inventive scope.

Light source may transmit signals or pulses in unique patterns that identify different restrictions such as a restriction to capture an image or video recording prohibition or a restriction to capture a region e.g. a face of a person in the vicinity of light source privacy restriction . As used herein the term region may encompass a point an area or volume or other location in any number of dimensions as would be understood in the art without departing from the scope of the example implementations.

Recording prohibition or Do Not Record signals may be encountered in venues such as theaters concert halls churches court rooms etc. to protect the privacy people or copyright of performances. At these venues one or more light sources or recording restriction signal emitters may be placed nearby. For example positioning the signal emitters near the screen of a theater or stage of a dance hall to meet the front of cameras facing the screen or stage.

Do Not Record signals prohibit recording of images and or videos. Do Not Record signals do not carry special data and can be detected or received by a signal receiver e.g. for infrared signals an IR receiver or sensor . IR transmitters and receivers are commonly available and used in many consumer IR devices such as a television remote control an IR transmitter and remote control sensor at a television an IR receiver or sensor . Some cameras today may have integrated with IR sensor such as cameras with remote controls.

IR signal detecting and sampling can be performed quickly in microseconds to milliseconds. For example an IR protocol may be implemented that sends a binary 1 in 1.8 milliseconds ms and a binary 0 in 1.2 ms. Sending and receiving a seven bit signal or command e.g. unique signal pattern using the IR protocol would take between 10 to 15.6 ms including 3 ms for the header e.g. 2 bit 2.4 ms of light followed by a 0.6 ms space interval to indicate the start of the message .

The Do Not Record signals can be implemented using fewer numbers of bits if less data is to be communicated. For example 

In some implementations the Do Not Record signals can include a 64 bit date and time when this signal message was created in milliseconds since 00 00 hours Jan. 1 1970 UTC . A timestamp is used so that this signal cannot be replicated and or improperly used elsewhere. A 68 bit signal can be communicated between 82 122 ms.

In some implementations the Do Not Record signals or the timestamp can be encrypted using public key cryptography so that the sender transmitter or venue can be authenticated. An example key may be a 768 bit public key which is considered safe to use in a RSA algorithm for public key cryptography. The public key is sent with the Do Not Record signals. An 836 bit signal can be communicated in just over one second e.g. about 1.25 seconds . Encrypting the Do Not Record signals with a public key signed by a certificate authority may help prevent unauthorized parties from falsely erecting Do Not Record signals.

The receiving camera verifies the authenticity of the public key with a certificate authority. For example the camera may have access to a network e.g. a camera with a smartphone with access to a wireless network and uses the network to communicate with a certificate authority. After a successful verification the public key is then used by the receiving camera to decrypt the timestamp for validation. For example the timestamp may be compared to the current time. If the result is greater than some threshold e.g. 10 seconds then the entire Do Not Record signal is ignored. Otherwise the two bits that indicate whether the image video and audio can be recorded are implemented e.g. honored by the camera.

If a recording prohibition or Do Not Record signal is received and or verified the camera may disable the recording or capturing function such as disabling or preventing light to reach a CCD CMOS and or disabling storage of the CCD CMOS contents to the memory of the camera. If sound recording is prohibited disables the capturing and or storing in memory of sound data received by the camera s microphone.

In some implementations a camera may start recording as usual while receiving and verifying a Do Not Record signal. Once a Do Not Record signal is verified the camera may stop recording and or discard e.g. delete everything that the camera had already recorded and stored in the memory.

Privacy restriction signals or Area off Limit signals transmit spatial data e.g. defining the off limit regions . Privacy restriction signals may be received by sensor or lens . Once a privacy restriction signal is detected lens will focus on the signal e.g. invisible IR light the same way the lens focuses on the visible light.

A video can be recorded 30 frames per second fps . For receiving data e.g. special data transmitted in a privacy restriction signal a processor of a camera can process 30 fps or at a much higher rate. For example the processor just needs to image process to detect a binary bit of 1 or 0 and save that detected bit. The processor can be programmed to but does not need to process the content of an entire frame and does not save the content of the frame. If the sample rate for receiving IR signals as described above is equal to the frame rate of 30 fps a signal of six bits at one bit per frame can be detected in about 0.2 second. Six bits because 

In many situations such as a person carrying a privacy light source no authentication or encryption is necessary. Thus a privacy restriction signal can be received in a fraction of a second. Cameras can be programmed to respect this type of restriction signal even if an image or a portion e.g. six frames of a video have been captured or recorded. The camera can be programmed to process the capture or recorded contents according to the data received in the signal e.g. retrieve the contents from memory if already stored there process the contents and store the process contents in the memory .

The restricted regions may be processed in any manner that prevents the regions from showing as captured. For example contents e.g. pixel data of the restricted regions may be blurred or replaced with other e.g. random or scrambled pixel data. Processing may be performed using facial detection techniques and or other techniques e.g. blurring just the faces of the regions .

In for example a person who desires his or her face not show up in some random images and videos may carry a privacy light source in the form factor of a watch bracelet necklace earrings a pin or any clothing accessory that is readily visible. The privacy light tells cameras in the vicinity to blur or obfuscate everything within a region or circle a specific radius from the light. This distance may be specified in world space and the camera is responsible for calculating how much of the corresponding image region to be blurred. The camera software can calculate the corresponding image region by roughly calculating the distance from the camera to the light source using for example the apparent brightness of the light source as the primary measure of distance and combining distance with the known field of view of the camera e.g. from zooming data of the lens to determine the total region of the image that needs to be blurred. Other criteria for calculation or estimation may also be substituted therefor as would be understood in the art.

For example the region to blur or obfuscate on the resulting image can be calculated trigonometrically as follows 

Thus a circle with a radius of 136 pixels which is centered on the light source in the image should be blurred or obfuscated.

In some examples process may be implemented with different fewer or more blocks. Process may be implemented as computer executable instructions which can be stored on a medium loaded onto one or more processors of one or more computing devices and executed as a computer implemented method.

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface may include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. buttons touch screen interface keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader and or the like . Output device interface may include a display television monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some example implementations input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to the computing device . In other example implementations other computing devices may function as or provide the functions of input user interface and output device interface for a computing device .

Examples of computing device may be any device with at least one camera including but are not limited to highly mobile devices e.g. smartphones devices in vehicles and other machines devices carried by humans and animals and the like mobile devices e.g. tablets notebooks laptops personal computers portable televisions radios and the like and devices not designed for mobility e.g. desktop computers other computers information kiosks televisions with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto radios and the like .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled e.g. via I O interface to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or another label.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and network in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions in some example computing environments. Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can originate from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. One or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit restriction signal processing restriction region processing image processing and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example restriction signal processing restriction region processing and image processing may implement one or more processes described and or shown in . The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example implementations when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit restriction signal processing restriction region processing and image processing . For example a CCD or CMOS or an infrared sensor may detect a recording restriction signal and passes it to restriction signal processing which determines that the signal is a privacy restriction signal e.g. restricts recording of a region in camera s view . restriction region processing then determines the restricted region or regions in relation to the view through the lens of camera . Every time camera changes the zooming restriction region processing may recalculate the restricted region s . The image processing then processes an image or a series of images e.g. frames of a video based on the restricted regions such as blurring the region s or changes pixels in the region s of the image or video.

In some instances logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit restriction signal processing restriction region processing and image processing in some example implementations described above. For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by a content server.

Although a few example implementations have been shown and described these example implementations are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in various forms without being limited to the described example implementations. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example implementations without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

