---

title: Vehicle seat headrest assembly having vertical and longitudinal adjustment
abstract: A vehicle seat headrest assembly () includes a headrest () having a rear headrest portion () with a housing () mounted on vertical posts () for vertical movement and also includes a front headrest portion () having a housing () movable longitudinally in forward and rearward directions by a support linkage () under the control of a rack and pinion mechanism (). A first helical spring locking clamp () permits upward adjusting movement of the headrest but normally prevents downward movement, and a second helical spring locking clamp () permits forward movement of the front headrest portion housing () while normally preventing rearward movement. An actuator () releases the first and second helical spring locking clamps ( and ) to permit downward movement of the headrest () and rearward adjustment of the front headrest portion () housing ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08899685&OS=08899685&RS=08899685
owner: Porter Group, LLC
number: 08899685
owner_city: Novi
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130617
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional Application Ser. No. 61 664 902 filed on Jun. 27 2012 by Robert L. Haeske Karl A. Murphy and Edward H. Poulos under the title VEHICLE SEAT HEADREST HAVING VERTICAL AND LONGITUDINAL ADJUSTMENT.

This invention relates to a vehicle seat headrest assembly having headrest vertical and longitudinal adjustment and having locking clamps for preventing downward and rearward movement during use.

Vehicle seats have previously included headrests that are adjustable vertically and longitudinally to provide the most effective head support.

Prior art noted during searching conducted in connection with the present invention include U.S. patents Published applications U.S. Pat. No. 5 052 754 Chinomi U.S. Pat. No. 6 149 233 Takei et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 213 548 Van Wynsberghe et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 533 359 Holstensson U.S. Pat. No. 6 666 516 Grammss et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 688 697 Baumann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 899 395 Yetukuri et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 983 995 Veine et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 073 856 Akaike et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 073 863 Low et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 232 187 Sundararajan et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 284 793 Kl hspies et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 350 859 Klukowski U.S. Pat. No. 7 455 363 Chung U.S. Pat. No. 7 500 721 Beroth et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 517 015 Terada et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 520 564 Woerner U.S. Pat. No. 7 611 196 Terada et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 618 091 Akaike et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 631 932 Hoffmann U.S. Pat. No. 7 717 507 Toda et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 766 423 Alexander et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 770 967 Hirota et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 866 745 Hirota et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 871 129 Boes et al. 2004 0262974 Terada et al. 2007 0027599 Sakai et al. 2007 0246989 Brockman 2008 0100118 Young et al. 2009 0058162 Boes et al. 2009 0096468 Hirota et al. 2010 0026061 McFalls et al. 2010 0127541 Kotz 2010 0127548 Truckenbrodt et al. 2010 0231023 Wuerstlein et al. 2010 0283306 Boes et al. and 2011 0109143 Maddelein et al.

In carrying out the above object the invention a vehicle seat headrest assembly constructed according to the invention includes a pair of vertical supports for extending upwardly from a vehicle seat back in a laterally spaced relationship from each other with respect to the seat back. A headrest of the assembly includes a rear headrest portion and a front headrest portion with the rear headrest portion mounted on the seat back by the pair of vertical supports for vertical movement and with a linkage that supports the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion for longitudinal movement in forward and rearward directions with respect to the seat back. A rack and pinion mechanism of the rear headrest portion includes a pair of racks and a pinion meshed with the pair of racks and the pair of racks are connected to the linkage to control movement of the linkage and hence the longitudinal movement of the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion. A first helical spring locking clamp of the headrest includes a first helical spring that extends around one of the vertical supports and is wound in a direction to permit upward movement of the headrest for adjustment while preventing downward movement of the headrest. A second helical spring locking clamp of the headrest includes a second helical spring that is wound around the pinion of the rack and pinion mechanism in a direction to allow its rotation for permitting linkage movement for forward movement of the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion while preventing its rotation in an opposite direction for linkage movement for rearward movement of the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion. An actuator of the headrest releases the first and second helical spring locking clamps to permit downward movement of the headrest for adjustment and rearward movement of the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion for adjustment.

As disclosed the actuator includes a release button that releases both the first and second helical spring locking clamps at the same time to simultaneously permit both the downward movement of the headrest for adjustment and the rearward movement of the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion for adjustment.

The rear headrest portion disclosed includes a support bridge extending from each of the pair of vertical supports to the other and supporting the rack and pinion mechanism and the linkage includes a pair of support levers having associated first ends respectively supported for pivoting about the pair of vertical supports and also having associated second ends spaced from their first ends. Furthermore the linkage disclosed also includes a pair of control levers having first ends pivotally connected to the front headrest portion and having second ends respectively pivotally connected to the pair of racks of the rack and pinion mechanism as well as having intermediate portions respectively pivotally connected to the second ends of the pair of support levers.

A support beam of the headrest as disclosed extends between the pair of vertical supports at a location above the support bridge with the support bridge having one end that supports the first helical spring locking clamp with its helical spring extending around the one vertical support and with the support bridge also having an intermediate portion that mounts the rack and pinion mechanism and that also supports the second helical spring locking clamp with its helical spring extending around the pinion of the rack and pinion mechanism. The support bridge has a rear side at which the intermediate portion of the support bridge mounts the rack and pinion mechanism and a front side at which the support bridge mounts the second helical spring locking clamp and the pinion of the rack and pinion mechanism has a rod that projects forwardly from the rear side of the support bridge to its front side to the second helical spring locking clamp which provides locking and release of the pinion for rotation.

As disclosed the actuator includes a release button mounted on the front headrest portion and also includes an actuator member mounted on the support bridge and in one embodiment the actuator includes a telescopic connector that operates the actuator member on the support bridge by the release button on the front headrest portion to release both helical spring locking clamps. In another embodiment the actuator includes a release cable that releases both helical locking clamps.

The friction of the front headrest portion can be tuned so the front headrest will move forwardly at a predetermined rate of deceleration to provide head support to a vehicle seat occupant and the threshold level of deceleration that permits the forward movement of the headrest can be controlled by suitable adjustment such as by one or more adjusters that control the friction involved with the forward movement of the front headrest portion and or by the weight of the front headrest portion.

In carrying out the above object a vehicle seat headrest assembly constructed according to the invention includes a pair of vertical supports for extending upwardly from a vehicle seat back in a laterally spaced relationship from each other with respect to the seat back a headrest including a rear headrest portion and a front headrest portion with the rear headrest portion mounted on the seat back by the pair of supports for vertical movement with a linkage and a rack and pinion mechanism that support the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion and control longitudinal movement of the front headrest portion in forward and rearward directions with respect to the rear headrest portion with a first locking clamp that permits upward movement of the headrest for adjustment while preventing downward movement of the headrest with a second locking clamp that permits linkage movement and operation of the rack and pinion mechanism for forward movement of the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion while preventing linkage movement and rack and pinion mechanism operation for rearward movement of the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion with an actuator for releasing the first and second helical spring locking clamps to permit downward movement of the headrest for adjustment and rearward movement of the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion for adjustment and with the friction of the headrest being tuned so the front headrest will move forwardly at a predetermined rate of deceleration to provide head support to a vehicle seat occupant.

As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention that may be embodied in various and alternative forms. The figures are not necessarily to scale some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

With reference to a vehicle seat headrest assembly embodying the invention is generally indicated by and includes a headrest mounted on a vehicle seat at the upper extremity of its seat back by a pair of vertical supports of the assembly. The headrest includes a rear headrest portion having a housing mounted on the vertical supports for vertical movement as is hereinafter described and also includes a front headrest portion having a housing that is movable in a longitudinal direction forwardly and rearwardly on the rear headrest portion as is also hereinafter described. Holes in the housing of the rear headrest portion receive screws or the like to provide its mounting. Both housings and of the rear and front headrest portions and as disclosed are molded from a suitable plastic and the front headrest portion may have an upholstery cover where the occupant s head contacts the headrest for support. Longitudinal grooves in the exterior of the rear headrest housing receive longitudinal ribs in the interior of the front headrest housing to support the front headrest portion on the rear headrest portion for the longitudinal adjusting movement that is hereinafter more fully described. The headrest can normally be moved upwardly but is prevented from downward movement and its front headrest portion can normally be moved longitudinally in a forward direction but is prevented from rearward movement in the longitudinal direction. An actuator disclosed as a push button provides actuation that releases the headrest for downward movement on the vertical supports and also releases the front headrest portion for rearward longitudinal movement on the rear headrest portion .

In the housing of the rear headrest portion is removed to illustrate the manner in which the front headrest portion is mounted for its longitudinal movement from the rearwardmost position shown to the forwardmost position shown in a similar view in . Within the headrest a support beam extends between the upper extremities of the vertical supports and a support bridge of the rear headrest portion extends between the vertical supports below the support beam and is movable vertically on the vertical supports to move the headrest vertically. The support bridge includes holes that receive the screws for supporting the housing of the rear headrest portion . A first helical spring locking clamp that is hereinafter more fully described clamps onto the right vertical support as illustrated in to normally prevent downward movement of the headrest while allowing upward movement for adjustment. Depression of the push button of actuator releases this clamp to also permit downward movement from any upper position as is also hereinafter more fully described.

As illustrated in a support linkage generally indicated by supports the housing of the front headrest portion on the support bridge of the rear headrest portion for movement between the rearward position shown in and the forward position shown in . More specifically the support linkage includes a pair of support levers having first ends that are respectively pivotally supported on the support bridge at the vertical supports for pivotal movement between the rearward position shown in and the forward position shown in . Support levers also have second ends including pivotal connections to respective intermediate portions of control levers which have first ends with pivotal connections that support the front headrest housing and provide its longitudinal movement between the forward and rearward positions. These control levers have second ends that extend to a rack and pinion mechanism mounted on the support bridge that extends between the vertical supports as previously discussed. More specifically the left control lever as shown in has its second end provided with a pivotal connection to the lower side of the rack and pinion mechanism as shown in and the right control link shown in has its second end with a pivotal connection at the upper side of the rack and pinion mechanism as shown in .

As illustrated by the rack and pinion mechanism includes lower and upper rack members that are slidably supported on the support bridge and have rack teeth that mesh with a toothed pinion rotatably supported about an axis A on the support bridge at its rear side as shown. Lower and upper retainers respectively maintain the meshing relationship of the rack members with the pinion as illustrated in . Involute tooth faces on the rack and pinion teeth reduce backlash to provide better positioning of the front headrest portion. The rack members as shown in the views of have pin portions of the pivotal connections that respectively connect to the second ends of the control levers such that the rack and pinion mechanism by the support levers and control levers synchronize the linkage that supports the front headrest portion and moves it relative to the rear headrest portion between its forward and rearward positions.

With reference to the views of and to a second helical spring locking clamp is supported on a front side of the support bridge and includes a helical spring for providing clamping against operation of the rack and pinion mechanism . More specifically the pinion of the rack and pinion mechanism includes a headed rod that has a connection so as to rotate with the pinion and that extends forwardly through the support bridge to the clamp on the front side of the support bridge . A bushing of clamp is press fitted into an opening in the support bridge so as to be rotatively fixed with respect thereto and a bushing between the head of the rod and the bushing permits rotation of the rod under the control of the helical spring of clamp . A helical ramp on the bushing and a helical ramp on the support bridge respectively set the adjacent ends of the spring and one end of spring as shown in the has a radially extending distal end received within an axial slot of bushing to prevent rotation of the spring. The spring is wound so that the rod and pinion can rotate so as to permit the rack and pinion movement corresponding to forward longitudinal movement of the front headrest portion but to prevent rotation of the rod and pinion in the opposite direction so that the front headrest portion cannot move in a rearward longitudinal direction. An end of helical spring shown in is moved by the operation of the actuator shown in to unclamp the spring from rod and thereby permit adjusting rearward movement of the front headrest portion as the pinion rotates to permit such movement by movement of the control levers connected to support levers and to the rack and pinion mechanism as previously described.

As illustrated in the helical spring locking clamp includes a helical spring for clamping around the associated vertical support post . The helical spring is received within a bushing that is press fitted into an opening in the support bridge . This bushing has a helical ramp that seats the upper end of the helical spring and also has an axial slot as shown in that receives a radially extending distal end of the helical spring so as to prevent spring rotation. The spring is wound so as to permit upward movement on the associated vertical support but to prevent downward movement without operation of the actuator .

The headrest actuator shown in and includes an actuator member as shown in that is movable along the support bridge and has a first actuator portion that moves a spring end of the helical spring of the first clamp upon such spring and movement in order to permit downward movement of the support bridge and the entire headrest on the vertical supports . The actuator member also includes a second actuator portion that extends along the support bridge in its assembled position to the second clamp shown in to move the end of spring shown in in order to allow the rearward movement of the front headrest portion by releasing the clamp . Thus both the vertical clamp and longitudinal clamp are released at the same time by the movement of the actuator member to permit adjusting movement of the entire headrest vertically downward and movement of the front headrest portion longitudinally toward the rear.

The operation of the actuator member shown in is provided by operation of the push button of actuator . More specifically as shown in this depression of the push button of actuator pivots a crank that rotates one end of a telescopic connector whose other end extends to a crank on the support bridge as shown in to move the actuator member and release both of the helical spring locking clamps and as previously described to permit downward movement of the entire headrest and the rearward movement of the front headrest portion . The telescopic connector includes two telescopic members that permit the longitudinal movement forwardly and rearwardly while still maintaining the rotational connection between the actuator whose push button provides the actuation of actuator member through cranks and .

As shown in it is also possible for the actuator to release the helical spring locking clamps and by a release cable that operates the actuator member to release both of the helical spring locking clamps and .

The friction of the headrest can be tuned so that at a predetermined rate of deceleration the front headrest portion will move forwardly to provide head support to a vehicle seat occupant. The threshold level of deceleration that permits this movement can also be controlled by suitable adjustment such as by one or more adjusters that control the friction involved with forward movement of the front headrest portion and or the weight of the front headrest portion.

While exemplary embodiments are described above it is not intended that these embodiments describe all possible forms of the invention. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally the features of various implementing embodiments may be combined to form further embodiments of the invention.

