---

title: Method and apparatus for providing multi-sensor multi-factor identity verification
abstract: An approach for multi-sensor multi-factor identity verification. An identity verification platform determines biometric data associated with a user from one or more sources. The one or more sources are associated with one or more respective network sessions. The platform generates one or more respective trust scores for the one or more sources, the one or more respective network sessions, or a combination thereof based on one or more contextual parameters associated with the user, the one or more sources, the one or more respective network sessions, or a combination thereof. Then the platform verifies an identity of the user based on the biometric data and the one or more respective trust scores.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09391986&OS=09391986&RS=09391986
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09391986
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130531
---
Sensor technology is becoming ubiquitous in an increasing array of services and applications. For example biometric sensors can help a user to measure monitor track and improve the user s health. Similarly environmental sensors are used to monitor and generate weather data and other sensed characteristics of an environment. At the same time improvements in communication technologies enable service providers to interconnect these sensors to provide even more sophisticated services. One area of development has been sensor based identity verification. However service providers face significant technical challenges to characterizing and ensuring the reliability trustworthiness integrity etc. of the data collected from these sensors particularly when the resulting sensor data are used to support services such as identity verification and other identity related services e.g. electronic notarization services electronic signature services etc. .

Based on the foregoing there is a need for an approach for multi factor user identity verification that leverages sensor data arising from multiple sensor sources.

An apparatus method and software for multi sensor multi factor identity verification are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Network service providers have unique opportunities to contribute to a biometric sensor and identity verification ecosystem for addressing these needs. In one embodiment network service providers can provide biometric sensor networking security and privacy capabilities for identity verification. Accordingly a system of comprises one or more user devices also collectively referred to as user devices with connectivity to an identity verification platform to provide user identity verification using multiple factors from multiple biometric sensors also collectively referred to as sensors . In other words the system introduces a capability of providing an identity verification service so that a user e.g. willing or unwilling can verify that the user is whom the user says e.g. validate a user s identity claim . By way of example multiple biometric sensor factors that can be used to verify a person s identity e.g. an identity of a person associated with a user device include network information session information context information data confidence trust score calculations and or the like. It is contemplated that any parameter or characteristic of the sensors and or the network s over which they operate can be used as a factor for sensor based identity verification.

In one embodiment identity verification can include numerous measurements from the sensors that can be intelligently combined to create confidence or trust scores for the measurements. For example the system can measure multiple factors in complex biometric sensor networks that include both peer to peer P2P and client server network connections and communications sessions. The system can then perform the identity verification based on the measurements and associated trust scores in combination with other sensor factors. In one embodiment the system measures confidence trust scores for 1 an overall identity verification 2 the user devices 3 the sensors 4 network communications for carrying the sensor data 5 sensor relationships etc.

In one embodiment the system introduces a capability of measuring calculating and recording sensor relationships e.g. trust relationships using mathematical methods including transitivity associativity equivalence greater than less than etc. The system may also for instance include trust federation and or trust negotiations among sensors user devices etc. in measuring calculating and or recording sensor relationships. In another embodiment the system leverages sensor network knowledge in sensor trust determination calculations. For example sensor network knowledge may include what other sensors around a target sensor detect about the target sensor e.g. connected disconnected okay not okay etc. .

In one embodiment as further discussed below the sensors may include biometric and non biometric sensors. By way of example the non biometric sensors may be found in the user s environment e.g. home car business office etc. . Sensor data from non biometric sensors can then be used in addition to or in place of all or a portion of the biometric sensor data. Moreover in one embodiment the system includes heterogeneous sensors in identity verification e.g. including sensors in and or on a person s body and or in the environment e.g. surveillance camera capturing a person s gate periocular region of the face ear iris etc. heartbeat via cardiac and pulmonary modulations detected using radar and or Doppler effect .

In one embodiment the system provides for progressive identity verification as more and better sensor data becomes available. For example in one use case as a user walks to a scheduled appointment sensors can collect data about the user s walk face features and context e.g. location prior to engaging in the appointment. In this way the user s identity can be verified progressively as more data is collected to provide identity verification data to parties participating in the appointment. A doctor for instance can be progressively provided with information verifying a patient s identity as the patient walks to the doctor s office.

In one embodiment the system enables the creation or updating of a personal health record PHR for a user based on the collected biometric sensor data. In the context of PHRs the system for instance can securely and intelligently enhance PHRs with sensor network data sensor session data sensor trust data etc. as described with respect to various embodiments of the invention. This in turn enables users to measure monitor track and improve their health. In addition the system is able to securely e.g. based on identity verification incorporate PHR baseline data to measure changes e.g. diet environment medications mood etc. against baseline personal biometric data. In one embodiment the system can semantically tag biometric and PHR data and attributes to facilitate appropriate inference user privacy user preference and or data sharing. Activity monitoring data including the user s mobile device sensor data e.g. accelerometer gyroscopes etc. and network information e.g. network based location and communications activity may be stored in a PHR. In some use cases PHRs can be collected for post mortem analysis to contribute to better medical diagnostics and or treatments across populations e.g. users can donate PHRs in a similar way to donating a user s body or organs to science .

In one embodiment the system enables the device to actively monitor and report the activity of a user. The system for instance can securely monitor track and report the activity of the user by continuously verifying the user s identity through other means. The system may also require verification prior to active monitoring tracking and reporting but this could create security issues with newly acquired data for instance a user verifies their identity and a third party wrongfully procures the device used to acquire new data the data would then be tainted. In another embodiment the newly acquired data may continuously be tracked and verified against historical data without verification of user identity treating newly acquired data with less confidence due to unknown data sourcing. Unless sensors or devices are within a user s body the acquired data will be less secure. For example a user wearing a smartphone may verify their identity prior to acquisition of activity of a user but without continued identification through other means the data could be corrupted by wrongful procurement of the device or sensor by third parties. The activity data acquired could be of a user s gait as described above audio or camera activity network based and gps based locations sensor environments e.g. sensors within a certain area of a device such as known specific sensors within a user s body and known sensors in the location of the device user activity patterns e.g. commuting from home to work exercising at the gym and other scheduled and unscheduled activities user s do etc.

In one embodiment the system enables the use of sources which may include device sensors e.g. accelerometers microphones cameras location sensors gyroscopes accelerometer sensors in the body magnetic compasses etc. network based location associated with the user e.g. network sessions data including strength clarity reliability and other issues and or communication history associated with the user e.g. historical use by the user through the same or different network sessions and sources . All of which may be combined to determine an activity related to the user. This activity may then be used to monitor user interactions and user health and report to user or other third parties based as required. This activity may also be used in verifying the user identification.

In one embodiment the system can leverage multi sensor multi factor identity verification and accompanying biometric data into a variety of service and applications including e.g. electronic notary eNotary electronic signing eSigning services fraud detection and prevention services and or activity monitoring services. In one embodiment the system makes identity verification services and functions available to third party services and application via application programming interfaces APIs . In one embodiment the system may provide services to verify physical identity artifacts e.g. driver s license passport etc. as well as previously known biometric information e.g. fingerprints on record . By way of example an electronic notary service or an electronic signature signing service binds results of an identity verification to specific documents transactions etc. In one embodiment an electronic notary service leverages sensor data e.g. information available from user devices like location audio imaging etc. and or body and environmental sensors to implement functionality including user identity verification secure affidavit and acknowledgement signing generation and secure recording of transaction serial numbers and logging of electronic notary transactions. The functionality can be used to support for instance records retention secure privacy protected access to minimally required electronic Notary information non repudiation etc.

In one embodiment the system enables an eNotary service to perform as a witness to the user s identity and willing participation in a transaction. As part of the willingness determination the eNotary service includes duress detection capability that can utilize personal biometric sensor data PHR data environmental sensor data contextual data and the like to infer indications of user duress. In one embodiment the eNotary service also incorporates security measures such as private networks virtual private networks VPNs encryption trust tokens with attributes user privacy user preference data classification and or tagging etc. Other security measures may include incorporating checksum s hash es encryption tagging and or other techniques to encode and protect transaction data.

In one embodiment the eNotary service of the system includes an ability to create and record a Notary Identification Number NIN or other encoded metadata that contains a manifest of information about the eNotary transaction including date time location s voice print s images still and or video heterogeneous sensor data eNotary user signature eNotary user affidavit s and acknowledgement s eNotary transaction logs etc. By way of example the system generates globally unique NINs by for instance encoding data like geo location of the user in the NIN generation. For example the system can encode metadata that uniquely identifies transaction content e.g. for a house purchase closing this may include contracts title deed survey mortgage affidavits bank and tax documents etc.

In one embodiment metadata or other information associated with the manifest or transaction can be determined through optical code recognition e.g. QR code recognition barcode recognition etc. or other automated means. For example the system can also incorporate document scanning technologies e.g. watermark reader like ones used at airports to validate driver s license passports etc. . In another example the system can account for user location proximity to physical artifacts by incorporating short range communication technology e.g. Near Field Communication NFC . In addition the system can account for location diversity of devices audio image recognition and recording fingerprint recording and recognition on the user device etc.

As described with respect to identity verification the system may also calculate trust and confidence scores for transactions submitted to the eNotary service.

In one embodiment as with identity verification services the system supports multi session multi network notarizing services. For example the system multi session eNotary identity validation utilizes sensor data from sensors found in mobile devices e.g. microphones cameras location sensors gyroscopes accelerometer magnetic compasses etc. and biometric data from sensors on the body and in the environment e.g. heart rate blood pressure electrocardiography EKG iris ear face periocular gait etc. . Additionally or alternatively the system multi session data may be used to implement a network based activity monitoring and reporting system.

In one embodiment the system can implement the eNotary service as a virtual service e.g. leveraging user devices and or as a physical service e.g. as a kiosk and or electronic notary machines ENM . By way of example ENMs can be located at business locations where notary services may be needed such as doctor s offices car dealerships title companies banks post offices etc. Additionally or alternatively an ENM can be mobile e.g. leverage postal delivery infrastructure to bring ENM to a user s physical location . In one embodiment ENMs enable processing of physical as well as digital documents by utilizing technologies like cameras and or scanners including e.g. optical character recognition OCR and or other document imaging technology and or Near Field Communications NFC .

In one embodiment the system can implement a click to sign service e.g. either as a standalone service as a subset of the eNotary service that verifies a user s identity e.g. including authentication and authorization and creates an eSignature. In one embodiment the eSignature can include appropriate contextual parameters e.g. date time IP address location user s username password user consent information etc. . For example user consent can be expressed as e.g. a voice file of the user saying Okay to sign I agree or some other indicator of consent. On creation of the eSignature the system can also create a unique transaction serial number e.g. using techniques like checksums and or hashes .

In one embodiment the eNotary service associates traditional identity artifacts e.g. driver s license passport etc. with a user s biometric data by e.g. 1 enrolling the user s voice and or face print biometric at the same time that the user s driver s license and or passport is created and or 2 biometrically scanning the user s existing driver s license and or passport at the time the user s voice and or face biometric or other biometric data is enrolled. In one embodiment the user s identity is validated prior to biometric enrollment.

In one embodiment the system enables validating a physical identity artifact e.g. driver s license passport credit card etc. by using image recognition face biometrics and context e.g. ID artifact picture and user face match ID artifact home address and user location match ID artifact phone and user s phone verification e.g. SMS opt in where an opt in reply code may come from a different device like a PC or ANM and or ID artifact watermark verification. In one embodiment verification of multiple physical forms of identity can increase the confidence in the identity verification.

In one embodiment the eNotary service includes calculating generating and or recording an electronic version of the traditional notary seal that will be used to annotate eNotary transaction document s . For example this can be accomplished by using mechanisms similar to those that describe transaction serial number generation discussed below.

In one embodiment the eNotary service also includes using sensor technology to detect the difference between a picture of a face and the actual face by looking for variations in the time domain. Additionally the eNotary service can implement live ness testing by for instance having the user speak a challenge phrase e.g. randomly generated and time bound to a microphone and a camera capturing multiple frames of the user.

In one embodiment if the eNotary service detects fraudulent activity the system can revoke verification information provided under the eNotary service. In this way if additional or updated sensor data indicate concerns about a user s identity the system can revoke the identity verification e.g. temporarily or permanently .

For the purpose of illustration the user devices the identity verification platform and the sensors communicate over one or more networks including a telephony network a wireless network a data network a service provider data network etc. In one embodiment the user devices may also use short range wireless technologies such as Near Field Communications NFC Bluetooth WiFi ZigBee Z Wave etc. to communicate with the sensors and other components of the system . In one embodiment the identity verification platform may interact with respective identity verification applications also collectively referred to as identity verification applications executing on the user devices to provide identity verification services. In one embodiment the identity verification applications may be used to collect sensor data initiate identity verification use identification results and or any other functions of the identity verification platform or the system . It is noted that such applications can also be eliminated and the functions of the applications can instead be implemented via a browser accessing a website which can be part of the identity verification platform .

In one embodiment the system may use network and or session diversity among the user devices the identity verification platform the sensors and other components of the system as factors for identity verification. In the case of network diversity for instance different networks e.g. peer to peer P2P client server can be used to obtain and compare sensor data from the sensors . For example if sensor data obtained over different networks are consistent then the system may determine that there is higher confidence in identity verification resulting from the sensor data. Similarly for session diversity different communication sessions within the same network session among the user devices the identity verification platform the sensors and other components of the system can be used to obtain and compare sensor data for consistency.

In one embodiment the system may calculate confidence trust scores for different legs or segments within a network or session for exchanging sensor data. For example if a network path between the identity verification platform and a sensor includes hops between a first leg e.g. between service provide network and data network and a second leg e.g. between data network and wireless network the identity verification platform can calculate separate confidence trust scores for each individual leg. In one embodiment combined trust scores represents an aggregation of the trust scores for the individual legs or segments. In one embodiment the legs or segments can also be represented by application or operating system layers within the user devices or the sensors . For example if the sensor data travels from one application software layer to another application software layer within the user device before being transmitted to the identity verification platform then layer to layer traversal within the user device can also represent individual legs or segments.

In one embodiment the sensors may include biometric sensors and non biometric sensors. Biometric sensors may include using cameras microphones gyroscopes accelerometer magnetic compasses location sensors e.g. GPS sensors biochemical e.g. hormones bodily chemical levels blood cell counts electrocardiogram other medical devices etc. Non biometric sensors may include cameras scanners etc.

According to one embodiment these identity related services may be included as part of managed services supplied by a service provider e.g. a wireless communication company as a hosted or a subscription based service made available to users of the user devices through the service provider data network which in one embodiment may be a cloud network service. As such the identity verification platform may for instance be configured to aid notarized document submittal payments and other transactions. In this regard the identity verification platform may provide more secure and efficient transactions between parties and monitor track and maintain personal health records.

In one embodiment a user refers to a person mobile device or other possible parties requiring or needing user verification. In one embodiment the term sensor source or source is used interchangeably with a sensor scanner camera microphone user input information device information etc. In one embodiment biometric data comprises fingerprints iris prints face prints voice prints gait DNA heartbeat blood pressure neural biochemical etc. In one embodiment identity verification data comprises documents user identification passwords identifying marks images videos audio signatures pins answers to questions locations times biometric data etc. In one embodiment a physical identity artifact include driver s licenses passports documents with signatures images bar codes QR codes Near Field Communication NFC etc. In one embodiment network elements include communications between sensor to sensor device to device sensor to device device to network network to network sensor to network and vice versa.

As shown the identity verification platform may be part of or connected to the service provider network . In certain embodiments the identity verification platform may include or have access to through the service provider network a sensor information database a personalized information database and a notary recordation database . The sensor information database personalized information database and notary recordation database in some embodiments store data used to validate the identity of a user. In certain embodiments the sensor information database personalized information database and notary recordation database may be combined in one or multiple database objects.

The sensor information database may for instance be utilized to access or store user information including a user s biometric data such as gait face print eye iris print heartbeat biochemical levels neural patterns ear voice print fingerprint etc. This biometric data will be collected by sources such as sensors cameras etc. and be maintained by the sensor information database . Outlying data may be used to diagnose user health user activity fraud monitoring and prevention and or duress and to alert on any issues.

The personalized information database may for instance be utilized to access or store user information including a user s personal identification documents as sources including a user s driver s license passport birth certificate social security card QR code bar code NFC tag etc. The personal information database may also be utilized to access or store user schedule location time date calendar events sources used environment information weather indoor outdoor etc. etc. The personal identification documentation may be collected by scanner camera microphone NFC etc. The personalized information database may store and update a user s personal identification documentation which may be used to analyze for counterfeit documents.

The notary recordation database may for instance be utilized to access or store user information including a user s identity verification data. Each instance of failure and verification is recorded in the database in order to track and further analyze to identify a user. Each instance may track the initiation location date time user information used sources and network sessions used in verifying a user s identification. Network sessions may include communication between sensors devices networks and combinations thereof.

While specific reference will be made thereto it is contemplated that the system may embody many forms and include multiple and or alternative components and facilities. For example although various embodiments of identity verification are described using a mobile device it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other devices such as cash machines personal computers payment devices medical devices etc. In addition although various embodiments of identity verification describe multiple source identification identification could also be made through a single source.

It is recognized that in identity verification on mobile devices uncertainty of source and coercion willingness of user may be issues. Uncertainty of source applies to sensor issues network session issues and identity data issues whereas coercion may be from a third party forcing a user to act. As such trust and confidence scores are generated in order to evaluate dependability of source sensors network sessions and user distress duress. For example to sign a contract a notary is generally necessary. With identity verification by opening an eNotary application a user may be allowed to sign a contract electronically after identity verification through multiple sources. These sources may include fingerprinting at a scanner device driver s license scanning at a separate scanner looking into a mobile device camera for iris prints analyzing a user s voice from a microphone and analyzing a user s gait when walking In one embodiment a user s gait might also be determined by the user s mobile device accelerometer gyroscopes and compass along with a nearby video camera video of the user walking. After verifying the identity of the user the application would allow for an electronic signature to be placed in the contract otherwise an error would be sent. Throughout a user s gait voice face blood pressure bodily chemicals hormones and or any other biometric indicator could be monitored to determine if the user is believed to be under duress. If determined to be under duress e.g. based on analysis of biometric data the system may prevent the user from signing the document. Additionally or alternatively user gait information may be used to implement a mobile device and network based activity monitoring and reporting system. Verification or failure would then be stored in the notary recordation database . In certain embodiments the notary recordation database would also store time location sources of verification network sessions used trust scores determined confidence scores determined or combinations thereof.

In one embodiment a user can launch an identity verification application e.g. an eNotary application to request identity verification for signing notary required or other high value documents. Under this scenario the application communicates with the identity verification platform to provide for notarization of a user by verifying the user via multi sensor multi factor data e.g. data collected directly from sensors or previously stored in the sensor information database personalized information database and or notary recordation database . The user might also specify specific sources and network sessions on which to perform the identity verification. In one embodiment the identity verification further secures a document eSigning by comparing historical and or baseline user data against current data in order to determine if the user is experiencing duress or possibly other health conditions. The separate application of other sources and or other network sessions may also be used to increase or decrease the value or trustworthiness of applied sources and network sessions in verifying a user s identity.

In this example the user device is a mobile device e.g. smartphone tablet netbook laptop wearable computer etc. that may also be configured to utilize a browser to communicate with the identity verification platform . Among other functions the identity verification platform can determine physical identity artifacts or documents or other identity verification images NFC data sounds or movements through scanned communicated pictured or recorded methods as compared from for instance databases and or . The identity verification platform can also modify add or analyze data within the databases and or . The identity verification platform also determines the user s other possible network sessions and sources that might be utilized.

In one embodiment the identity verification platform may also be used for validating mobile device transactions e.g. payments access to Electronic Health Records EHR fraud prevention facility access etc. to determine the user s identification prior to transaction and or determine user duress during a transaction. In one embodiment a transaction request may automatically without user action request user identity verification. For example if the transaction occurs at a bank or specific institution and the user s request is initiated the application for transaction then automatically initiates identity verification. If identification is verified then the identity verification platform may also check for duress if no duress the transaction goes through if duress is found the identity verification is blocked. In another embodiment the user device may communicate directly with sensors for collecting identity verification data. In another embodiment the sensors may communicate directly with each other and the identity verification platform to collect identity verification data.

In one embodiment a payment request may automatically without user action request user identity verification. For example if the payment occurs at a retailer and the user s payment request is initiated the application for payment then automatically initiates identity verification. If identification is verified then the identity verification platform may also check for duress if no duress the payment goes through if duress is found the identity verification is blocked. In another embodiment the user device may communicate directly with sensors for collecting identity verification data. In another embodiment the sensors may communicate directly with each other and the identity verification platform to collect identity verification data.

In one use case identity verification can be performed on a physical identity artifact such as a driver s license. For example the user scans the magnetic bar or the front of the driver s license to authenticate it and record the user data or takes a picture of the driver s license. The identity verification platform analyses the picture or scan of the driver s license and compares against information stored in the personalized information database. The identity verification platform then evaluates the source scanner or camera e.g. sensors and or user device and the network sessions created to receive the information by creating a trust score for each segment. For example if the system knows the camera has lower capabilities for detail or the scanner does not scan correctly then the trust score for each would be lower than a perfect camera picture and scanner. This information in conjunction with the method of transmission through network session such as radio transmission between each source to the mobile device and that device to the cell tower by cellular phone transmission. In one embodiment communications characteristics such as strength of signal communication loss cell tower identity etc. may be used to determine the trust score for each network session. The identity verification platform then accesses the databases and to analyze the identity data to determine similarity or difference from baseline data of the user e.g. the user s driver s license data as previously scanned or stored . In comparing the two the current scan or picture and the baseline scan or picture the data is compared and the trust scores evaluated and if not close enough to being the same the identity and trust scores are too low verification fails and payment application is notified. If the user identity is verified by the driver s license then the payment application may continue with payment. In other embodiments the driver s license identity verification may also be combined with a secondary driver s license data network session or source such as taking a picture and scanning the license. In other embodiments the driver s license may be a single source in combination with the user s schedule pin password voiceprint and or voice password fingerprint and or gait. All of which would combine to create a confidence score to establish the current identification data of the user to obtain a better identity verification of the user.

For illustrative purposes the networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example long term evolution LTE code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance the service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system SS network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

The controller may execute at least one algorithm e.g. stored at the memory for executing functions of the identity verification platform . For example the controller may interact with the identity verification module to verify the identity of the user. The identity verification module may work with the other modules to obtain and analyze such information in order to determine the user s identity.

In certain embodiments the identity verification module may work with the network analyzer module to determine which network elements are used and the trust of each network element used. The network analyzer module may also aid the identity verification module in verifying the user s identity by strengthening or weakening the confidence in identity verification data collected through the network elements used. For example the network analyzer module can aid in determining to not use identity verification data collected from a sensor which is using a weak network connection or aid in determining to have greater confidence in identity verification data collected from a sensor which is using a strong network connection. A weak versus strong network connection may be based on history of reliability trustworthiness and integrity. Lack of history security and integrity are all reasons a network connection may be considered weak. A long history of reliability strong security and good integrity are all reasons a network connection may be considered strong.

In certain embodiments the identity verification module may work with the session analyzer module to determine the dependability of a session session context location history date time etc. session frequency and inter sensor confidence of a request for identity verification . The session analyzer module may also edit add or remove previous request information in the personalized information database . Identity verification request information may be stored and called upon to determine a context frequency and confidence based on other sensors. These may also be used to determine if the request is made in an unusual way thus making confidence in the session reduced or if in a standard common way making confidence in the session stronger.

In certain embodiments the identity verification module may operate with the context analyzer module to determine the dependability of a session through context. Used in conjunction with prior user scheduling a session confidence may be weakened or strengthened based on where the request is made at work or at a bank will lead to stronger confidence whereas in a rural location or a location known for fraudulent activity will lead to less confidence when the request is made during normal work hours will lead to stronger confidence whereas at a time when user is not usually awake will lead to less confidence and how often the request is made based on history of requests should a user make a request every day at the same time Monday through Friday and the request occurs at that same time will lead to stronger confidence should the request occur on a Sunday at the same time will lead to weaker confidence .

In certain embodiments the identity verification module may operate with the device analyzer module to determine the dependability of a sensor. The device analyzer module uses the sensor information database to determine a dependability of a specific sensor device model. The strength or weakness of each device determines a base dependability. For example a video camera model may have a video that is more detailed stronger confidence or less detailed weaker confidence . In another example a biometric sensor may be more stronger confidence or less accurate weaker confidence . Additionally or alternatively device analyzer module may determine the dependability of a user device .

In certain embodiments the identity verification module may operate with the content analyzer module to determine dependability of the sensor identification data and or sensor data. The content analyzer module uses the personalized information database to edit add and remove identity verification data collected from sensors . Based on a history of the collected data any new identity verification data may be determined to be useful stronger confidence or be aberrant less confidence even possibly leading to data removal due to greater deviance of the identity verification data. Also using the importance of the sensor data to determine stronger or weaker confidence.

In certain embodiments the identity verification module may operate with the sensor trust calculator module to determine a trust score for a sensor. The sensor trust score may use information collected by the network analyzer module session analyzer module context analyzer module device analyzer module and content analyzer module to determine a trust score for a sensor. The trust score would take account of connection history sensor sessions and data status of sensor trust of sensor location of request location of sensor importance of sensor data etc.

In certain embodiments the identity verification module may operate with the composite sensor score generator module to determine a trust score for a combination of sensors. The trust score may use information collected by the context analyzer module device analyzer module and content analyzer module to determine a trust score for multiple sensors. For example a user s gait might be determined through multiple video cameras in a location or a single video camera in conjunction with a location sensor e.g. GPS sensor and accelerometer and or gyroscope on a mobile device to determine a trust score. Additionally or alternatively user mobile device sensor and gait data may be used to implement a network based activity monitoring and reporting system. Use of this information for identity verification may be used in the authentication process on its own based off historical data or in conjunction with other methods of authentication such as fingerprinting.

In certain embodiments the identity verification module may operate with the identity verification confidence score generator module to determine a confidence score. The confidence score may use information collected by the network analyzer module session analyzer module context analyzer module device analyzer module content analyzer module sensor trust calculator module composite sensor score generator module and even identity verification logging and recording module to determine a confidence score for all sensor s and network connections used in verifying a user identity.

In certain embodiments the identity verification module may operate with the identity verification logging and recording module to record and track identity verification requests. Each request is recorded based on verification or failure location of request time date of request sensors used network elements used sessions used etc. Basically recording anything used in making the identity verification determination.

As shown in in step the identity verification platform determines biometric data associated with a user from one or more sources e.g. sensors . In one embodiment the one or more sources are associated with one or more respective network sessions. In one embodiment the biometric data includes historical biometric data newly collected biometric data or a combination thereof. For example the identity verification platform may establish a network session with the sensors or other source of sensor data e.g. user devices and or databases . In one embodiment the network session may be a P2P network session a client server network session and or any other network session type supported by the system .

In one embodiment heterogeneous biometric data can be combined to create composite biometrics to support identity verification. For example a surveillance camera in the environment can capture face recognition and walking stride and cadence i.e. gait biometrics. Further in this example the accelerometer and or gyroscopes in the user s mobile device e.g. user device can also measure gait. These two gait biometrics e.g. local via mobile device and remote via surveillance camera can be intelligently combined to create a composite gait biometric. Other examples of composite biometrics include eyebrow iris voice face location gait e.g. as a user arrives at a location and the like. It is noted that the examples of composite biometrics are provided for illustration and are not intended as limitations. In one embodiment one composite biometric e.g. composite gait biometric can then be selectively combined with other data to create additional composite biometrics. The identity verification platform can then apply criteria e.g. context trust and confidence scores etc. in the creation of composite biometrics. Additionally or alternatively user mobile device sensor and gait data may be used in combination with network information e.g. network based location communications history to implement a network based activity monitoring and reporting system.

In one embodiment some biometrics e.g. voice biometrics face biometrics fingerprint biometrics etc. can be obtained from enrolled sources. Biometric enrollment may occur at appropriate times and or places such as passport issuance centers department of motor vehicles etc. For example enrolled biometric data can be associated with traditional identity artifacts e.g. driver s license passport etc. . One mechanism to accomplish this may be for instance to enroll the user s face print biometric at the same time that the user s driver s license passport or other identity document is created. Alternatively the user s existing driver s license and or passport may be biometrically scanned at the time the user s face biometric is enrolled. Additionally or alternatively the enrolled biometric data may be obtained from only trusted enrollment sources which may include agencies or organizations that are trusted to perform biometric enrollment.

In step the identity verification platform generates one or more respective trust scores for the one or more sources e.g. sources of sensor data such as sensors the one or more respective network sessions or a combination thereof based on one or more contextual parameters associated with the user the one or more sources the one or more respective network sessions or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the trust score is based at least in part calculating a network communication confidence score. The network communication confidence score in turn is based on for instance a network confidence score a session confidence score and a device confidence score. In one embodiment the confidence scores reflect the calculated reliability and or trust worthiness of the associated network component.

In one embodiment network communication confidence can be calculated according to the following NetworkCommunicationConfidence NetworkConfidence network SessionConfidene session DeviceConfidence device 

In one embodiment network confidence e.g. NetworkConfidence Wnetwork is calculated as follows NetworkConfidence 1 1Port 2Port 2

In one embodiment network confidence is calculated with greater weight placed on the above factors as follows NetworkConfidence 1 1Port 2Port 2 Where a b c d and e represent factoring weights and in many cases c weighed much more heavily since NW should be valued more.

In one embodiment session confidence e.g. SessionConfidence Wsession is calculated as follows SessionConfidence SessionContext e.g. location history date time etc. PriorSessionFrequency Inter SensorConfidence e.g. confidence of sensors around session that session is valid 

In one embodiment device confidence e.g. DeviceConfidence Wdevice is calculated as follows DeviceConfidence DeviceInfo e.g. device ID IP address device owner etc. DeviceContext e.g. location history date time etc. 

In one embodiment the identity verification platform may calculate a confidence or trust score for collected biometric data. For example the biometric data confidence score is calculated as follows DataConfidence 1 1 2 2 

In one embodiment the identity verification platform may calculate a sensor trust score as follows SensorTrustScore 1 1 2 2 

In one embodiment the identity verification platform determines one or more confidence scores for one or more respective legs of the one or more network sessions. For example a leg or segment of the network session may span from one component to another component of the network. In one embodiment components for defining legs or segments of a network or session can include physical and virtual components such as user devices network devices IP addresses physical or virtual communications ports application layers operating system layers etc. By calculating scores on a leg by leg basis the identity verification platform for instance is able to determine trust confidence scores at a greater level of granularity within a network or a network session and identify specific legs or segments that raise potential concerns with respect to identity verification.

In one embodiment the identity verification platform determines non biometric data associated with the user an environment associated with the user or a combination thereof. In this embodiment the verifying of the identity of the user is further based on the non biometric data.

In step the identity verification platform verifies an identity of the user based on the biometric data and the one or more respective trust scores.

In step the identity verification platform processes biometric data to determine duress information associated with the user. The identity verification platform then determines whether it has detected indications of duress in the user s biometric data step . In one embodiment the verifying of the identity of the user is further based on the duress information. For example if duress is not detected the identity verification platform generates trust scores for the biometric data as previously described step and then determines whether the biometric data and associated trust scores support verification of the user s identity step .

If the identity verification platform detects indications of duress and or fails to verify the user s identity based on the biometric data and trust scores the identity verification platform notifies third party and or user of duress detection and sends a verification failure message step . Additionally detection of duress may trigger appropriate events e.g. notification to healthcare professionals law enforcement e.g. in the case of a distressed convenience store lone worker and or the user s family members of duress detection.

In step the identity verification platform creates or updates a personal health record for the user based on the collected biometric data the verifying of the user identity or a combination thereof. For example data from personal biometric sensors e.g. sensors for monitoring vital signs can be owned and or controlled by an individual user in a personal health record PHR . In one embodiment a PHR may contain biometric data including e.g. pulse blood oxygenation physical activity blood pressure blood glucose electrocardiography ECG perspiration rate galvanic skin response body temperature voice print face print fingerprint breath etc. Users can assemble for instance their own network of biometric sensors and use their data to monitor track and improve their health. In one embodiment a PHR may also include personal full genome sequence for use in predictive personalized and precision medicine. PHR data may also provide baseline measurements that may help measure effects of changes on the person e.g. adjusting a medication diagnosing a condition monitoring and or encouraging user activity or optimizing the user s diet. Accordingly biometric data in PHRs are typically highly personal to individual users and can be used for identity verification purposes.

In step the identity verification platform causes a semantic tagging of the personal health record the biometric data or a combination thereof. By way of example PHR data may be semantically tagged including data confidentiality tagging. In one embodiment the benefits of such tagging may include increased data privacy protection satisfying personal preferences the ability to appropriately share some PHR data etc.

In step the identity verification platform determines a privacy policy a security policy or a combination thereof for the personal health record the biometric data or a combination thereof based on the semantic tagging. In one embodiment tagging may include data classifications such as 1 Unclassified U 2 Confidential C 3 Secret S 4 Top Secret TS etc. These classifications then can be used to determine what type of sharing or access is available based on associated privacy and or security policies. For example PHR data classified as Unclassified might be shared with social and or medical sites to add to the body of knowledge and collective wisdom of individuals that share a particular health condition.

In one embodiment historical PHR data may enable individuals to infer causes of conditions e.g. food related illnesses and or predict health issue occurrences e.g. heart attack via detection of circulating endothelial cells CECs in the blood . As previously noted in one embodiment depending on the tagging PHR data may also be used post mortem to contribute to better medical diagnostics and treatments across populations.

In step the identity verification platform determines an identity claim associated with the user the one or more respective network sessions or a combination thereof. For example an identity claim may be made by a user as part of engaging in a transaction. One example use case where a notary may participate is the purchase of a home. In this use case a user may make an identity claim as part of executing contracts titles deeds surveys mortgages affidavits bank and tax documents etc. It is contemplated an identity claim may be made to the identity verification platform under any context where such a claim is currently made to human notaries.

In step the identity verification platform validates the identity claim using multi sensor multi factor biometric data. By way of example like a person proving his or her identity to another human the identity verification platform e.g. when operating an eNotary service validates the identity claim with data. These data include for instance biometric data as well as more traditional forms of identification e.g. physical identity artifacts such as a driver s license passport credit card birth certificate and other identity documents . For example identity validation for eNotary services may be improved by exploiting mobile device capabilities e.g. location network and P2P sessions microphones cameras etc. and sensor technologies e.g. human biometric and environmental sensors . It is noted that increasing proliferation of sensors makes human biometrics useful as identity data.

For example as previously described a surveillance camera in the environment can capture face recognition and or walking stride and cadence e.g. gait biometrics. These data can be combined into composite biometrics based on the number and trust level of the various sensors and data. In one embodiment the trust and confidence scores used to characterize the biometric data are calculated according to the process described previously with respect to . Examples of eNotary validation are described in further detail with respect to .

In step the identity verification platform notarizes the identity claim based on the identity verification. For example if an identity claim is validated the identity verification platform proceeds with electronically notarizing the claim and any associated documents data transactions etc. In one embodiment as part of the notarization process the identity verification platform encodes eNotary transaction data e.g. including all audio video communications identity validation data etc. with a serial number to ensure security privacy and or integrity of the transaction and or documents content.

In one embodiment eNotary transaction serial number TSN generation may include values such as hashes and or checksums. In one embodiment TSNs are globally unique and in some cases can be analogous to vehicle identification numbers VINs . In one embodiment eNotary TSNs prevent modification to the original eNotary content from which the TSNs are generated.

In one embodiment the identity verification platform can tag data used in the eNotary transaction e.g. including documents metadata network information identity validations affirmations TSNs transaction logs etc. . For example tagging may include data classifications such as 1 Unclassified U 2 Confidential C 3 Secret S 4 Top Secret TS etc. The tagging for instance can be used to determine what privacy security and or sharing policies to apply to the transaction data. For example the identity verification platform can use the tagging to determine whether to retain or destroy the transaction data as appropriate. The tagging can also be used to enable sharing of the eNotary information based on user preferences data classification requestor ID requestor ID verification and context user privacy specifications etc.

In one embodiment as part of the notarization process the identity verification platform annotates eNotary transaction documents with an electronic version of the traditional notary seal . In one embodiment the seal may be applied using mechanisms similar to those that describe the TSNs above.

As previously describe the identity verification platform may validate physical identity artifacts as part of the eNotary process. In the example of assumes that a user is initiating the eNotary service from a user device located for instance in the user s primary residence. In step the identity verification platform receives an identity verification claim that is associated with a physical identity artifact e.g. a driver s license and creates a digital version of the physical identity artifact for processing. For example an eNotary user presents a driver s license DL as an identity claim by taking a picture of or scanning the DL with a user device e.g. a mobile device a personal computer etc. . The scanned image can then be sent to the identity verification platform to initiate an identity verification request.

In steps to the identity verification platform performs various verification checks on the scanned or digital version of the artifact. For example in step the identity verification platform determines whether there is a photographic match of any images in the artifact against known images e.g. face recognition object recognition etc. . In one embodiment the photographic match may be made with a face or a feature e.g. eyebrows ears iris etc. the user photographed in the identity artifact. In addition or alternatively the identity verification platform can also compare a signature present on the artifact against a signature collected from the user e.g. by signing on the screen of the user device .

In step the identity verification platform determines whether there is a location match between any parsed location from the digitized artifact against a present location or other known locations of the user. For example the identity verification platform can process the digital artifact using optical image recognition to determine a user address. The platform can then obtain location information for the user device to determine whether the recognized address matches the obtained location information.

In step the identity verification platform determines whether the user device e.g. a mobile phone capturing an image of the physical artifact is valid. For example if a user s mobile telephone number is listed on the artifact the identity verification platform can recognized the number from the scanned image and then verify the number. Validation for instance may include sending a text message to the mobile number listed and requesting a reply from the user. In one embodiment the reply content that is to be submitted in the reply text message may be presented on another device accessible to the user e.g. the user s PC . For example the user would have to enter whatever content is displayed on the other device into the text message reply. Additionally or alternatively correlation of the user s mobile phone and the mobile phone number associated with the physical artifact e.g. credit card may be determined e.g. the user s mobile phone number may be verified as the same as the mobile phone number on record with the user s credit card .

In step the identity verification platform determines whether any watermarks embedded in the physical artifacts are valid. In one embodiment the digital or scanned image of the artifact may have the watermark visible. In this case the watermark can be compared against reference watermarks expected in the artifact to determine validity. In some cases the watermark may not be visible or otherwise obscured when scanned or imaged. In this case special scanners or imagers e.g. usually available from authorities issuing the identity artifact can be used to validate the watermark. Additionally or alternatively forms of digital watermarks e.g. NFC data may be used.

In step the identity verification platform analyzes the results of the verification checks performed in steps to determine whether the physical identity artifact is verified. In one embodiment the identity verification platform may require the digitized artifact to pass all checks. In other embodiments the identity verification platform may verify the identity of the physical identity artifact even if it passes only some of the checks of steps . It is also noted that the checks of steps are provided by way of example and is not intended to be limiting. In addition it is contemplated that the identity may apply only a subset of the checks or provide for alternate of substitute checks. In one embodiment the identity verification platform may also make the types of checks to apply depending on the type of physical artifact that is being evaluated. For example a driver s license may evoke one set of checks while a passport evokes another set.

In one embodiment other forms of physical identity artifacts e.g. credit card passport etc. may be verified similarly. Credit card verification for example may 1 utilize security questions instead of validating a watermark 2 verify the user s signature with that on the credit card 3 verify the user s mobile phone number with that associated with the credit card etc. In one embodiment verification of multiple physical forms of identity can increase the confidence in identity verification.

As previously noted some biometrics e.g. voice biometrics face biometrics etc. depend on some form of enrollment. By way of example biometric enrollment may occur at appropriate times and possibly at appropriate places like a government office a passport issuance center etc. . In one embodiment the physical identity artifact verification process of may be used to verify a user s identity for purpose of enrolling biometric data e.g. voice print face fingerprint etc. .

An example of a voice and face biometric enrollment session using a user device is to have the verified user speak the digits through while captured by a microphone and camera of the user device . Once enrolled the user can be verified by voice face periocular etc. and or by multiple factors e.g. voice face .

In one embodiment the identity verification platform can use either network diversity or session diversity to enhance identity verification. For example in step the identity verification platform receives a request for identity verification and decides to perform multi sensor multi factor identity verification over two sessions. It is noted that although the example of describes a two session identity verification it is contemplated that the identity verification platform can use any number of sessions for identity verification.

In step the identity verification platform initiates a first network session for identity verification. For example the identity verification platform determines a first set of the biometric data through a first one of the one or more respective network sessions. The identity verification platform then performs the identity verification on the first set of biometric data to confirm the user s identity step .

In step the identity verification platform determines a second set of the biometric data through a second one of the one or more respective network sessions. Similar to the process above the identity verification platform performs the identity verification on the second set of the biometric to confirm the user s identity step .

In step the identity verification platform determines whether both sessions result in confirmation of the user s identity. If the user s identity is verified over both sessions then the identity verification confirms the user s identity. If either or both of the sessions result in no confirmation of the user s identity then the process can repeat with another session and or the identity verification platform can display an identity verification failure message.

In one embodiment sensor context may also be used to calculate sensor and network trust scores. Sensor context for instance may include data like network connection and or session status sensor location network connect time data transported number of network problems e.g. connect timeouts re syncs etc. number of content problems signal strength etc.

In one embodiment organic models of sensor relationships e.g. P2P relationships can be used to show or model evolutionary origins of sensor networks. For example organic models can predict the interdependence of the component parts of the system as well as their differentiation to calculate trust and confidence relationships among the sensors and or the sensor networks . Such organic modeling can simplify trust calculations particularly as the system increases in complexity and number of component parts.

For example a first leg spans Device to System via a path consisting of Device Device Port Network System Port System . In one embodiment the trust or confidence scores for this leg are calculated based on the components in the path described above.

A second leg spans Device to System via a path consisting of Device Device Port Network Port Network Port System Port System . A third leg spans Device to Device via a path consisting of Device Network Port Device Port Device . As with the first leg the trust and confidence scores for the second and third legs can be calculated based on the individual components of each leg. Because the paths are different the resulting trust and confidences are also likely to be different depending on the characteristics of the respective components.

In this example the eNotary user has made an identity claim on the user s PC device and is instructed by the eNotary service to confirm and eSign an affidavit e.g. a sworn statement of fact confirming the user is who the user claims to be. In one embodiment eNotary service employs a multi factor approach to identity verification using a combination of the following 

By using both the PC device and mobile device the system employs session diversity for biometric confirmation of the user s identity because the PC device is connected directly to the eNotary service whereas the mobile device is connected via wireless network .

For example as previously discussed the mobile device can be used for multi factor identity verification using voice and face on a mobile. In this scenario the user speaks a specified three digit challenge phrase displayed on the mobile. This speaking test is an example of a live ness test that is for preventing use of a pre recorded picture video or speech to perform fraudulent identity verification. In one embodiment the live ness test can be incorporated as a sub step in the identity verification processes described above.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

The processes described herein for verification of a user s identity from mobile devices can be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display organic light emitting diode OLED display active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical solid state or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk flash memory etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to perform multi sensor multi factor biometric identity verification. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

