---

title: Encapsulated metal microtip microplasma device and array fabrication methods
abstract: Methods of the invention can form microtip microplasma devices having the first and second metal microtips and metal oxide in a monolithic, unitary structure. Methods can form arrays that can be flexible, can be arranged in stacks, and can be formed into cylinders, for example, for gas and liquid processing devices, air filters and other applications. A preferred method of forming an array of microtip microplasma devices provides a metal mesh with an array of micro openings therein. Electrode areas of the metal mesh are masked leaving planned connecting metal oxide areas of the metal mesh unmasked. Planned connecting metal oxide areas are electrochemically etched to convert the planned connecting metal oxide areas to metal oxide that encapsulates opposing metal microtips therein. The mask is removed. The electrode areas are electrochemically etched to encapsulate the electrode areas in metal oxide.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08870618&OS=08870618&RS=08870618
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08870618
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130820
---
The application is a divisional application of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from prior co pending application Ser. No. 13 188 715 which was filed on Jul. 22 2011 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 547 004 on Oct. 4 2013 and which claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 367 951 which was filed on Jul. 27 2010.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA9550 07 1 003 awarded by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A field of the invention is microplasma devices and arrays and metal and metal oxide based microplasma devices and arrays in particular. Devices and arrays of the invention have many applications including for example displays and the plasma treatment processing of gases and liquids. Specific example applications include air and water purification ozone production the plasmachemical conversion of COinto industrially valuable feedstock gases and the filtering of air.

Microplasma devices developed by the present inventors have been formed in various materials and configurations. Such devices are capable of igniting and sustaining glow discharges in microcavities having a characteristic dimension between approximately 5 m and 500 m. Electrodes are generally designed to ignite a plasma within each microcavity. Designs for the electrodes differ but most are azimuthally symmetric with respect to one or all cavity apertures. Prior arrays developed by the present inventors and colleagues have many applications such as displays lighting as well as the production of ozone for water treatment.

For example Park et al U.S. Published Application Number 20100296978 discloses microchannel lasers having a microplasma gain medium. In that application microplasma acts as a gain medium with the electrodes sustaining the plasma in the microchannel. Reflectors can be used in conjunction with the microchannel for obtaining optical feedback and lasing in the microplasma medium in devices of the invention for a wide range of atomic and molecular species. Several atomic and molecular gain media will produce sufficiently high gain coefficients that reflectors mirrors are not necessary. of that application also discloses a microchemical reactor that is suitable for air purification and ozone production because of the channel lengths and large plasma power loadings watts deposited per unit volume that are available. However fabrication costs associated with channels of extended length present an obstacle to commercialization for this technology for many applications that would benefit from ozone production.

Ozone is the strongest oxidant and disinfectant available commercially. Mechanisms of disinfection using ozone include direct oxidation destruction of bacterial cell walls reactions with radical by products of ozone decomposition and damage to the constituents of nucleic acids. Presently available commercial devices for the large scale production of ozone are generally expensive devices having high power requirements. Ozone is produced when oxygen O molecules are dissociated by an energy source into oxygen atoms. Collisions with oxygen molecules produce ozone O which must be generated at the point of treatment because the lifetime of Oin air at atmospheric pressure is in the order of minutes. Commercial ozone generators having sufficient capacity for municipal water treatment for example are large as much as 10 15 ft. in length and have demanding power requirements 150 200 kVA . Furthermore the conversion of feedstock gases into Ois typically inefficient. Existing commercial processes for producing Oin large volume typically convert 15 18 of the oxygen O feedstock gas into O. Maintenance of such system is also problematic owing to a large number of ceramic parts and fouling of device components by nitric acid. Inexpensive and compact devices for high efficiency generation of ozone would have many important applications.

A preferred method of forming an array of microtip microplasma devices provides a metal mesh with an array of micro openings therein. Electrode areas of the metal mesh are masked leaving planned connecting metal oxide areas of the metal mesh unmasked. Planned connecting metal oxide areas are electrochemically etched to convert the planned connecting metal oxide areas to metal oxide that encapsulates opposing metal microtips therein. The mask is removed. The electrode areas are electrochemically etched to encapsulate the electrode areas in metal oxide.

Methods of the invention can form microtip microplasma devices having a first metal microtip opposing a second metal microtip with a gap therebetween. The first and second metal microtips are encapsulated in metal oxide that electrically isolates and physically connects the first and second metal microtips. Preferred methods of the invention can form devices in which the first and second metal microtips and metal oxide comprise a monolithic unitary structure. Methods of the invention readily form arrays of the microtip microplasma devices. In an example array formed by a method of the invention the first metal microtip can be a portion of a first electrode and the second metal microtip a portion of a second electrode with the first and second electrodes and said metal oxide defining a mesh with microscale openings therein. Arrays formed by methods of the invention can be flexible can be arranged in stacks or can be formed into cylinders for example for gas and liquid processing devices air filters and other applications.

Embodiments of the invention include methods that form arrays of microtip plasma devices formed from opposing microtips encapsulated in dielectric where each pair of microtips is capable of producing plasma in a gas or mixture of gases lying immediately adjacent to the encapsulating dielectric and in the vicinity of a microtip pair. Such an array of microplasmas can generate ultraviolet UV or vacuum ultraviolet VUV radiation capable of for example destroying pathogens in water and thus improving the purity of water in a municipal supply. Other applications for the microplasmas generated by microtips of the invention include the plasmachemical conversion of greenhouse gases or atmospheric pollutants into industrial feedstock gases or liquids.

A preferred method of forming an array of microtip microplasma devices provides a metal mesh with an array of micro or mm scale openings therein. Electrode areas of the metal mesh are masked leaving planned connecting metal oxide areas of the metal mesh unmasked. Planned connecting metal oxide areas are electrochemically etched to convert metal in these specific areas to metal oxide that physically connects and encapsulates opposing metal microtips therein. The mask is removed. The electrode areas are electrochemically etched to encapsulate the electrode areas in metal oxide. The dielectric gaps and encapsulated microtips have cross sectional dimensions smaller than but comparable to those of original mesh but each opposing set of tips supports the generation and sustenance of intense plasma that can encircle each dielectric gap and microtip pair if space is left above and below the array.

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings may include schematic representations which will be understood by artisans in view of the general knowledge in the art and the description that follows. Features may be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis and features may not be to scale. The preferred embodiments are discussed with respect to experiments that were conducted with an aluminum and aluminum oxide based fabrication method. Another example system is titanium and titanium oxide.

The array shown in and include a plurality of opposing microtip pairs in a preferred embodiment microtip plasma array. The pair is encapsulated by dielectric that also fills occupies a gap that electrically separates the opposing pair while mechanically joining the pair . Each tip has a respective electrode that is shared by other microtip plasma devices in the array. The electrodes are also coated with dielectric to protect them from sputtering. The array in is readily formed from a wire mesh that defines openings cavities that with the dielectric that occupies the gaps serves to isolate the electrodes from each other. The electrodes and continue in the vertical direction in to provide the necessary alternating voltage for a plurality of the microtip pairs in the array each of which ignites and sustains and intense plasma that surrounds each pair of microtips and associated dielectric gap.

The array of microtips can be mounted onto the substrate with an adhesive layer as shown in which can be any of a variety of materials including polymers or glass frit. Alternatively arrays can operate without attachment to a substrate and even in standard atmosphere as a result of intense electric fields that can be produced. The substrate can preferably be porous having a pattern of holes extending through the substrate to allow for the passage of a gas or liquid through the substrate. Each microtip pair is excited electrically through the electrodes by a time varying sinusoidal RF pulsed etc. voltage applied by the voltage source . The strong electric field produced in the region between the tips and in the region outside the metal oxide that connects and covers the tips will produce a microplasma in this region if the peak value of the driving voltage is sufficiently high and a gas is present.

As demonstrated in experiments microtips are formed and are shaped electrochemically from the metal that constituted the original metal mesh. The mesh can be fabricated from a metal sheet or can be obtained from a commercial source. Such meshes are available in a wide variety of thicknesses and patterns having different geometries of openings and such a commercial aluminum mesh was used to fabricate the array that is shown in . The microtip pair of is separated by a specified and well controlled distance. Both metal microtips are encapsulated in metal oxide that electrically isolates and physically connects the first and second metal microtips . They form part of a larger unitary monolithic structure that is a larger array with the electrodes and dielectric physically forming the unitary monolithic structure. The opposing microtips and as well as the entire array are formed by converting metal e.g. aluminum into metal oxide e.g. aluminum oxide on a spatially selective basis. As a result the two tips are completely encapsulated in metal oxide which also forms a physical link portion that retains the original external shape of a wire mesh that was used to form the array.

Experimental microtip microplasma devices and arrays of the invention include pairs of aluminum microtips separated by a specified and well controlled distance with typical values of tens to several hundred m. The tips are formed within the connecting links of which an aluminum mesh is composed. When the microtip pairs are formed they are simultaneously encapsulated in nanoporous aluminum oxide alumina . Applying a time varying voltage to the metal mesh via a voltage source results in the generation of an array of small glow discharges produced above indeed around the gap between each microtip pair but in the gas surrounding the mesh.

Experiments demonstrated inexpensive arrays of microplasma generating electrode pairs with the microtip structure allowing for the electric field strength at which the plasma is generated to be readily increased up to the breakdown strength of nanoporous alumina while simultaneously allowing for the openness or transparency of the mesh to be large. The intense electric fields achievable with microtips make arrays of microtip pairs well suited for generating microplasmas in attaching gases and other gases such as CO that are difficult to dissociate fragment efficiently. Large two dimensional arrays can be formed. Each microtip is separated from its opposing partner by a fixed distance typically in the range of 10 700 m and all of the aluminum from which the microtips are formed or just the microtips themselves are encapsulated by a dielectric layer such as alumina AlO .

The alternative route of is to first etch the exposed Al links to form the microtips and subsequently remove the photoresist. The process sequence in either case as illustrated in concludes with one or both of anodizing the Al microtip pair array to complete dielectric formation or by coating the array with a dielectric other than AlO. The latter can be accomplished by any of a variety of well known techniques such as evaporation or sputtering. The formed array can also be removed from the substrate by dissolution or another method for removing the adhesive

The control with which the microtip shape profile and the gap between the microtips can be specified is extraordinary. is a sequence of four microphotographs showing the transformation of portions of an Al mesh into AlO forming microtips in the process of . In the process of the tip formation has just begun as only 25 of the width of Al link has been converted into AlO. The arrow in identifies one of the links at which the conversion process is underway. In the process is more than 50 complete and in the growth of AlOis on the verge of severing the Al link. Continuing to convert Al into AlO widens the gap between the newly formed microtips to 230 m.

Tests show that the reproducible formation of microtip pairs having a specific profile and gap can be accomplished by monitoring current flow during the anodization process or H . Because the mesh structure serves as an electrode during anodization the current can be recorded throughout the process as shown by the representative trace in . At the point when the Al links are severed the current drops precipitously see also the inset to . Consequently recording the current during anodization eliminates the need for periodically removing the mesh from the anodization bath and visually determining the progress of the Al to AlOconversion process. Continuing the anodization process a predetermined amount of time beyond the break point of results in an array of microtips having gaps that are virtually constant over the entire array. In other words the rate of increase of the microtip gaps beyond the breakpoint was calibrated for specific anodization bath concentrations and temperatures. In this way the microtip pair gap and profile can be controlled precisely.

For arrays of the invention the electrodes and interconnects are sealed or encapsulated in nanoporous metal oxide. Advantageously arrays can be produced from a single sheet of commercially available metal mesh with a fabrication procedure that requires only one photolithographic step or as shown in not at all . The entire electrical structure including the microgaps is encapsulated making these arrays extremely robust. Microplasmas are formed outside but immediately above and behind the microgaps in the gas in which the array is immersed due to the intense electric field. The electric field strength in each microgap is readily controlled by varying gap length and tests show that arrays of microtip pairs operate well in the most challenging gases including air. It should also be noted that this design does not require microplasma to be formed in the openings microcavities in the mesh.

Since the microtip pairs also operate well in air arrays of microtips can also be used to purify air as shown schematically in an air purifier of . An airflow to be treated enters an enclosure Conventional air filters such as a to pre dust filter and a HEPA filter which physically remove particles from the air flow stream but are incapable of destroying pathogens such as MRSA or spores. Single or multiple spaced arrays of microtip plasma devices are in the enclosure which can be a duct for example in a hospital ventilation system and are power by a power supply . The arrays can be quite effective in destroying pathogens and can be replaceable modules like the filters. The combined effect of the UV radiation emitted by the plasma and the plasma itself will destroy contaminants and pathogens to a degree considerably higher than that afforded by existing systems.

In a schematic diagram showing a system of the invention that is for the treatment of contaminated is presented which shows the treatment of contaminated water by ultraviolet radiation produced by an array of microplasmas in an appropriate gas such as one or more of the rare gases. Ultraviolet radiation of the proper wavelength normally UV C is known to be effective in destroying biological contaminants in water. An array of microtip plasma devices is enclosed in a UV transparent material within a flow enclosure such as a pipe. UV emissions generated treat the water flowing in the pipe . Additionally gas flows can route produced ozone through the water for treatment of the water with ozone.

The preferred embodiments have been shown to provide arrays of opposing microtips encapsulated in dielectric each pair of microtips capable of producing plasma in a gas or mixture of gases lying immediately adjacent to the encapsulating dielectric and in the vicinity of a microtip pair. Such an array of microplasmas can generate ultraviolet UV or vacuum ultraviolet VUV radiation capable of for example destroying pathogens in water and thus improving the purity of water in a municipal supply. Other applications for the microplasmas generated by microtips of the invention include the ozone production from oxygen or air and the plasmachemical conversion of greenhouse gases or atmospheric pollutants into industrial feedstock gases or liquids. Microtip arrays of the invention are particularly well suited for filters capable of destroying pathogens such as MRSA spores and other contaminants in the air supply for critical environments including surgical and patient rooms in hospitals and the homes of individuals with compromised immune system.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

