---

title: Method of making ionic liquid mediated sol-gel sorbents
abstract: Ionic liquid (IL)-mediated sol-gel hybrid organic-inorganic materials present enormous potential for effective use in analytical microextraction. One obstacle to materializing this prospect arises from high viscosity of ILs significantly slowing down sol-gel reactions. A method was developed which provides phosphonium-based, pyridinium-based, and imidazolium-based IL-mediated advanced sol-gel organic-inorganic hybrid materials for capillary microextraction. Scanning electron microscopy results demonstrate that ILs can serve as porogenic agents in sol-gel reactions. IL-mediated sol-gel coatings prepared with silanol-terminated polymers provided up to 28 times higher extractions compared to analogous sol-gel coatings prepared without any IL in the sol solution. This study shows that IL-generated porous morphology alone is not enough to provide effective extraction media: careful choice of the organic polymer and the precursor with close sol-gel reactivity must be made to ensure effective chemical bonding of the organic polymer to the created sol-gel material to be able to provide the desired sorbent characteristics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09555394&OS=09555394&RS=09555394
owner: University of South Florida
number: 09555394
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131004
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 300 943 entitled Ionic Liquid Mediated Sol Gel Sorbents filed on Nov. 21 2011 which is a continuation of International Application PCT US2010 035797 entitled Ionic Liquid Mediated Sol Gel Sorbents filed May 21 2010 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 180 274 entitled Ionic Liquid Mediated Sol Gel Sorbents filed May 21 2009 which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant DGE 0221681 awarded by the National Science Foundation and Grant DE AC05 00OR22750 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to the creation of ionic liquid sorbents. Specifically the invention provides a hybrid organic inorganic sol gel sorbent.

Hydrophilic polar analytes are notoriously difficult to extract and preconcentrate from aqueous matrices. Sample preconcentration is of utmost importance in the trace analysis of these recalcitrant analytes. A variety of extraction based preconcentration techniques have been utilized for this purpose Fontanals R. M. Marce F. Borrull J. Chromatogr. A 1152 2007 14 . With the current trend of miniaturization in analytical instrumentation microextraction techniques are gaining popularity. Microextraction techniques include solid phase microextraction SPME Pawliszyn S. Liu Anal. Chem. 59 1987 1475 Belardi J. Pawliszyn Water Pollut. Res. J. Can. 24 1989 179 hollow fiber microextraction Zhang J. Poerschmann J. Pawliszyn Anal. Commun. 33 1996 219 single drop microextraction Jeannot F. F. Cantwell Anal. Chem. 69 1997 235 liquid phase microextraction He H. K. Lee Anal. Chem. 69 1997 4634 extraction techniques based on suspended particles membranes disks coated vessel walls etc. Lord J. Pawliszyn J. Chromatogr. A 885 2000 153 and stir bar sorptive extraction SBSE Baltussen P. Sandra F. David C. Cramers J. Microcolumn Sep. 11 1999 737 . SPME techniques include traditional fiber SPME Pawliszyn Liu Anal. Chem. 59 1987 1475 Belardi Pawliszyn Water Pollut. Res. J. Can. 24 1989 179 Arthur Pawliszyn Anal. Chem. 62 1990 2145 and in tube SPME Eisert Pawliszyn Anal. Chem. 69 1997 3140 McComb et al. Talanta 44 1997 2137 Hartmann et al. Bull. 7 1998 96 Kataoka Pawliszyn Chromatographia 50 1999 532 .

In particular fiber SPME and in tube SPME Eisert J. Pawliszyn Anal. Chem. 69 1997 3140 McComb R. D. Oleschuk E. Giller H. D. Gesser Talanta 44 1997 2137 Hartmann J. Burhenne M. Spiteller Fresenius Environ. Bull. 7 1998 96 capillary microextraction CME S. Bigham J. Medlar A. Kabir C. Shende A. Alli A. Malik Anal. Chem. 74 2002 752 have experienced an explosive growth over the past two decades due in part to research by Pawliszyn and co workers Pawliszyn Liu Anal. Chem. 59 1987 1475 which provided a significant step toward automation of sample preparation in chemical analysis. Another significant reason behind such growth lies in the fact that these techniques pose little risk to human health and the environment by completely eliminating the use of organic solvents in the extraction process. Moreover CME uses a sorbent coating located inside a small diameter tubing either in the form of a surface coating or a packed monolithic sorbent bed. Thus analytes are directly extracted onto the sorbent coating bed from a sample as they pass through the tubing Eisert J. Pawliszyn Anal. Chem. 69 1997 3140 .

In addition to its use in GC Arthur et al. Anal. Chem. 64 1992 1960 high performance liquid chromatography HPLC Eisert Pawliszyn Anal. Chem. 69 1997 3140 Chen Pawliszyn Anal. Chem. 67 1995 2530 SPME is also suitable for other hyphenation such as supercritical fluid chromatography Hirata Pawliszyn J. Microcol. Sep. 6 1994 443 capillary electrophoresis CE Figeys et al. Nat. Biotechnol. 14 1996 1579 Whang Pawliszyn Anal. Commun. 35 1998 353 mass spectrometry MS Zhang Pawliszyn Anal. Chem. 65 1993 1843 and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ICP MS Moens et al. Anal. Chem. 69 1997 1604 . It is portable and is especially suited for field analysis Pawliszyn Sampling and Sample Preparation for Field and Laboratory. Elsevier New York 2002 .

However fiber SPME suffers from unresolved problems which include fiber breakage mechanical damage of the coating during operation and handling of the SPME device and limited sample capacity. These issues led to the development of in tube SPME Eisert Pawliszyn Anal. Chem. 69 1997 3140 also called capillary microextraction Bigham et al. Anal. Chem. 74 2002 752 . In this new format the sorbent coating is placed on the capillary inner wall. Analytes are extracted by passing the sample through the coated capillary Lord Pawliszyn J. Chromatogr. A 885 2000 153 . In tube SPME has a significant advantage over traditional fiber SPME in that the sorbent coating is protected against mechanical damage during operation since it is secured on the inner wall of a capillary. Short segments of GC columns have been used to perform extraction by in tube SPME Kataoka . Pawliszyn Chromatographia 50 1999 532 .

Additionally CME easily couples with HPLC allowing easier analysis of weakly volatile or thermally labile analytes Mullett J. Pawliszyn J. Sep. Sci. 26 2003 251 . CME also offers some other advantages over fiber SPME. SPME fibers often have limited sample capacities. Higher sample capacities can be obtained with CME because the sorbent coating bed is contained within a longer segment of the tube providing higher sorbent loading. Fiber SPME devices also have issues with mechanical stability the fiber can break the coating can be scratched and the needle can bend Djozan Y. Assadi S. Haddadi Anal. Chem. 73 2001 4054 . CME devices allow for superior mechanical stability because flexible capillaries with outer protective coatings are utilized providing safeguard against mechanical damage to the sorbent or the tubing.

Conventionally coated GC capillaries for in tube SPME still limit sample capacity due to diminutive sub micrometer thickness of GC coatings as well as reduced thermal and solvent stability due to a lack of chemical bonds between the coatings and the capillary wall. To address these issues Malik and co workers introduced sol gel capillary microextraction CME Bigham et al. Anal. Chem. 74 2002 752 representing in tube SPME on fused silica capillaries with surface bonded sol gel hybrid organic inorganic coatings. The use of the capillary format and the covalently bonded sol gel coating helped overcome the format related shortcomings of conventional fiber SPME as well as the thermal and solvent stability issues of traditional sorbent coatings.

Ionic liquid IL mediated sol gel hybrid organic inorganic materials present enormous potential for effective use in chemical analysis. This opportunity however has not yet been explored. One obstacle to materializing this possibility arises from the high viscosity of ILs significantly slowing down sol gel reactions. This work overcame this hurdle and successfully prepared IL mediated advanced sol gel materials for capillary microextraction CME . In IL mediated sol gel processes ILs are responsible for porous morphology of the created sol gel materials. However IL generated porous morphology alone is not enough to provide effective extraction media chemical characteristics of both the organic polymer and the precursor play important roles. The present invention teaches how to make proper choices for these ingredients to ensure highly efficient IL mediated organic inorganic hybrid extraction media with desired sorbent characteristics.

In recent years ionic liquids ILs organic salts that melt at or below 100 C. have gained popularity in a number of fields due to their perceived advantages over traditional solvents. They are considered green solvents because they are remarkably less hazardous than their conventional counterparts thanks to negligible vapor pressures low flammability good thermal stability tunable viscosities low corrosion tendencies and varying degrees of solubility with water and organic solvents S. A. Forsyth J. M. Pringle D. R. MacFarlane Aust. J. Chem. 57 2004 113 . These properties have led to the use of ILs in a variety of areas including green chemistry N. V. Plechkova K. R. Seddon In Methods and Reagents for Green Chemistry P. Tundo A. Perosa F. Zecchini Eds. Wiley Hoboken N.J. 2007 105 130 organic synthesis and catalysis T. Welton Chem. Rev. 99 1999 2071 R. Sheldon Chem. Comm. 23 2001 2399 C. M. Gordon Appl. Catal. A 222 2001 101 J. Dupont R. F. de Souza P. A. Z. Suarez Chem. Rev. 102 2002 3667 D. B. Zhao M. Wu Y. Kou E. Min Catal. Today 74 2002 157 chemical industry N. V. Plechkova K. R. Seddon Chem. Soc. Rev. 37 2008 123 electrochemistry D. R. Macfarlane M. Forsyth P. C. Howlett J. M. Pringle J. Sun G. Annat W. Neil E. I. Izgorodina Acc. Chem. Res. 40 2007 1165 R. Hagiwara J. S. Lee Electrochemistry 75 2007 23 D. Wei A. Ivaska Anal. Chim. Acta 607 2008 126 P. Hapiot C. Lagrost Chem. Rev. 108 2008 2238 amino acid and peptide chemistry J. C. Plaquevent J. Levillain F. Guillen C. Malhaic A. C. Gaumont Chem. Rev. 18 2008 5035 carbohydrate chemistry 0. A. El Seoud A. Koschella L. C. Fidale S. Dorn T. Heinze Biomacromolecules 8 2007 2629 and in the preparation of microemulsions Z. M. Qiu J. Texter Curr. Opin. Colloid Interface Sci. 13 2008 252 . Several books and extensive reviews have been also published on ionic liquids and their applications S. Chowdhury R. S. Mohan J. L. Scott Tetrahedron 63 2007 2363 P. Wasserscheid T. Welton Ionic Liquids in Synthesis 2ed. Wiley VCH Weinheim Germany 2008 H. Weingartner Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 47 2008 654 .

ILs have also found applications in a number of areas in analytical chemistry including GC D. W. Armstrong L. F. He Y. S. Liu Anal. Chem. 71 1999 3873 J. L. Anderson In Ionic Liquids in Chemical Analysis M. Koel Ed. CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 2009 139 165 LC L. J. He W. Z. Zhang L. Zhao X. Liu S. X. Jiang J. Chromatogr. A 1007 2003 39 R. Kaliszan M. P. Marszall M. J. Markuszewski T. Baczek J. Pernak J. Chromatogr. A 1030 2004 263 M. P. Marszall R. Kaliszan Crit. Rev. Anal. Chem. 37 2007 127 A. M. Stalcup In Ionic Liquids in Chemical Analysis M. Koel M. Ed. CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 2009 168 183 countercurrent chromatography A. Berthod S. Carda Broch Anal. Bioanal. Chem. 380 2004 168 CE E. G. Yanes S. R. Gratz M. J. Baldwin S. E. Robinson A. M. Stalcup Anal. Chem. 73 2001 3838 M. Vaher M. Koel M. Kaljurand Electrophoresis 23 2002 426 W. D. Qin S. F. Y. Li Analyst 128 2003 37 M. Lopez Pastor B. M. Simonet B. Lendl M. Valcarcel Electrophoresis 29 2008 94 analytical spectroscopy C. D. Tran Anal. Lett. 40 2007 2447 liquid liquid extractions J. G. Huddleston H. D. Willauer R. P. Swatloski A. E. Visser R. D. Rogers Chem. Comm. 16 1998 1765 M. Gharehbaghi F. Shemirani M. Baghdadi Int. J. Environ. Anal. Chem. 89 2009 21 solid phase extraction G. V. Myasoedova N. P. Molochnikova O. B. Mokhodoeva B. F. Myasoedov Anal. Sci. 24 2008 1351 micro solvent cluster extraction T. Charoenraks M. Tabata K. Fuji Anal. Sci. 2008 1239 SPME J. F. Liu N. Li G. B. Jiang J. M. Li J. A. Jonsson M. J. Wen J. Chromatogr. A 1066 2005 27 Y. N. Hsieh P. C. Huang I. W. Sun T. J. Whang C. Y. Hsu H. H. Huang C. H. Kuei Anal. Chim. Acta 557 2006 321 F. Zhao Y. Meng J. L. Anderson J. Chromatogr. A 1208 2008 1 single drop microextraction L. Vidal A. Chisvert A. Canals A. Salvador J. Chromatogr. A 1174 2007 95 and supercritical fluid extraction S. Keskin D. Kayrak Talay U. Akman O. Hortacsu J. Supercrit. Fluids 43 2007 150 . Extensive reviews have been published in on IL applications in the areas of analytical chemistry S. Pandey Anal. Chim. Acta 556 2006 38 X. Han D. W. Armstrong Acc. Chem. Res. 40 2007 1079 M. Koel Ionic Liquids in Chemical Analysis CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 2009 .

Recently ILs have been used in the preparation of sol gel materials S. Dai Y. H. Ju H. J. Gao J. S. Lin S. J. Pennycook C. E. Barnes Chem. Commun. 3 2000 243 Y. Zhou J. H. Schattka M. Antonietti Nano Lett. 4 2004 477 Y. Liu M. J. Wang Z. Y. Li H. T. Liu P. He J. H. Li Langmuir 21 2005 1618 Y. Liu M. J. Wang J. Li Z. Y. Li P. He H. T. Liu J. H. Li Chem. Commun. 13 2005 1778 M. A. Klingshirn S. K. Spear J. D. Holbrey R. D. Rogers J. Mater. Chem. 15 2005 5174 H. F. Wang Y. Z. Zhu X. P. Yan R. Y. Gao J. Y. Zheng Adv. Mater. 18 2006 3266 A. Karout A. C. Pierre J. Non Cryst. Solids 353 2007 2900 H. F. Wang Y. Z. Zhu J. P. Lin X. P. Yan Electrophoresis 29 2008 952 . In sol gel applications ILs have served as solvents S. Dai Y. H. Ju H. J. Gao J. S. Lin S. J. Pennycook C. E. Barnes Chem. Commun. 3 2000 243 Y. Liu M. J. Wang Z. Y. Li H. T. Liu P. He J. H. Li Langmuir 21 2005 1618 A. Karout A. C. Pierre J. Non Cryst. Solids 353 2007 2900 pore templates Y. Zhou J. H. Schattka M. Antonietti Nano Lett. 4 2004 477 Y. Liu M. J. Wang J. Li Z. Y. Li P. He H. T. Liu J. H. Li Chem. Commun. 13 2005 1778 drying control chemical additives M. A. Klingshirn S. K. Spear J. D. Holbrey R. D. Rogers J. Mater. Chem. 15 2005 5174 and possibly as a catalyst A. Karout A. C. Pierre J. Non Cryst. Solids 353 2007 2900 . In several cases ILs had significant effects on the porous structure of sol gel materials Y. Zhou J. H. Schattka M. Antonietti Nano Lett. 4 2004 477 M. A. Klingshirn S. K. Spear J. D. Holbrey R. D. Rogers J. Mater. Chem. 15 2005 5174 A. Karout A. C. Pierre J. Non Cryst. Solids 353 2007 2900 reduction in cracking and shrinking M. A. Klingshirn S. K. Spear J. D. Holbrey R. D. Rogers J. Mater. Chem. 15 2005 5174 H. F. Wang Y. Z. Zhu X. P. Yan R. Y. Gao J. Y. Zheng Adv. Mater. 18 2006 3266 A. Safavi N. Maleki M. Bagheri J. Mater. Chem. 17 2007 1674 during solvent evaporation from the sol gel pores and sol gel reaction kinetics M. A. Klingshirn S. K. Spear J. D. Holbrey R. D. Rogers J. Mater. Chem. 15 2005 5174 A. Karout A. C. Pierre J. Non Cryst. Solids 353 2007 2900 K. S. Yoo T. G. Lee J. Kim Microp. Mesopr. Mater. 84 2005 211 H. Choi Y. J. Kim R. S. Varma D. D. Dionysiou Chem. Mater. 18 2006 5377 .

Ionic liquid mediated sol gels have only seldom been used in analytical separations. Yan and co workers utilized IL mediated sol gel monoliths in CEC H. F. Wang Y. Z. Zhu X. P. Yan R. Y. Gao J. Y. Zheng Adv. Mater. 18 2006 3266 H. F. Wang Y. Z. Zhu J. P. Lin X. P. Yan Electrophoresis 29 2008 952 for the separation of chiral molecules. Racemic mixtures of naproxen H. F. Wang Y. Z. Zhu X. P. Yan R. Y. Gao J. Y. Zheng Adv. Mater. 18 2006 3266 and zolmitriptan H. F. Wang Y. Z. Zhu J. P. Lin X. P. Yan Electrophoresis 29 2008 952 were analyzed using the IL mediated sol gel monoliths. In these cases 1 butyl 3 methylimmidazolium tetrafluoroborate IL was used to assist in a non hydrolytic sol gel process to prepare molecularly imprinted silica based monoliths. The IL might have helped mitigate the sol gel shrinking problem and acted as a template for pores H. F. Wang Y. Z. Zhu X. P. Yan R. Y. Gao J. Y. Zheng Adv. Mater. 18 2006 3266 .

Polar sol gel sorbents have been developed for in tube SPME including those based on cyano Kulkarni et al. J. Chromatogr. A 1124 2006 205 crown ether Zeng et al. Anal. Chem. 73 2001 2429 and poly ethylene glycol Bigham et al. Anal. Chem. 74 2002 75 Wang et al. J. Chromatogr. A 893 2000 157 Silva Augusto J. Chromatogr. A 1072 2005 7 Bagheri et al. J. Chromatogr. B 818 2005 147 Kulkarni et al. J. Chromatogr. A 1174 2007 50 materials. While these sol gel coatings have advanced the use of polar organic polymers and achieve higher thermal and solvent stability these coatings mostly contain long chain polymers of high molecular weights Bigham et al. Anal. Chem. 74 2002 75 Wang et al. J. Chromatogr. A 893 2000 157 Silva Augusto J. Chromatogr. A 1072 2005 7 Bagheri et al. J. Chromatogr. B 818 2005 147 having lower polarity compared to their short chain counterparts and thus reduced ability to extract highly polar analytes. For such capillaries sample capacity can still be an issue Bagheri et al. J. Chromatogr. B 818 2005 147 . However what is needed is a method of developing a matrix having improved analyte absorbance qualities

A sol gel coatings were prepared using ionic liquids. The coating uses a first sol gel precursor such as PDMS BMPO polyTHF PEG or PDMDPS. An ionic liquid such as a phosphonium based ionic liquid imidazolium based ionic liquid pyridinium based ionic liquid or a combination thereof is added to the sol gel precursor and mixed with a second sol gel precursor into the precursor mixture where the second sol gel precursor is an alkoxysilane. A catalyst is added such as an acid base or fluoride compound to begin hydrolysis and or polymerization. In particular examples the catalyst is an organic acid such as an acid having a pKa of less than 4. Alternatively the catalyst can be TFA.

The first sol gel precursor can be any alkoxysilane sol gel precursor. In particular any known alkoxysilane may be used though longer polymer chains lower the rate of hydrolysis and increase the time required to form a sol gel. Non limiting examples of sol gel precursors include tetramethoxyl silane or tetraethyl orthosilicate triethoxysilane trimethoxysilane N 2 aminoethyl 3 aminopropyltrimethoxysilane 3 methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane N 2 vinylbenzylamino ethyl 3 aminopropyltrimethoxysilane of 3 glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane tetraethoxysilane methyltrimethoxysilane methyltriethoxysilane dimethyldimethoxysilane dimethyldiethoxysilane methyldimethoxysilane methyldiethoxysilane phenyltrimethoxysilane trimethylmethoxysilane trimethylethoxysilane dimethylmethoxysilane dimethylethoxysilane phenyltriethoxysilane diphenyldimethoxysilane diphenyldiethoxysilane phenyldimethoxysilane phenyldiethoxysilane phenylmethyldimethoxysilane phenylmethyldiethoxysilane triphenylmethoxysilane triphenylethoxysilane phenyldimehtylmethoxysilane phenyldimehtylethoxysilane diphenylmethylmethoxysilane diphenylmethylethoxysilane diphenylmethoxysilane diphenylethoxysilane bis trimethoxysilyl methane bis triethoxysilyl methane 1 2 bis trimethoxysilyl ethane 1 2 bis triethoxysilyl ethane 1 4 bis trimethoxysilyl benzene and 1 4 bis triethoxysilyl benzene.

A solvent is optionally added to ensure the solubility and appropriate phase of the sol gel components as a homogeneous system. The use of the solvent is dictated by the sol gel components and are within the skill of one in the art to select the appropriate solvent. Non limiting examples include methylene chloride methanol ethanol tetrahydrofuran and mixtures thereof.

The ionic liquids allow for the introduction of pores in the sol gel matrix. The ionic liquids possess sol gel active sites such as hydroxyl or alkoxy functional groups or functional groups that may be converted into a hydroxyl or alkoxy functional group such as the methoxy group of BMPO. Examples of ionic liquids include phosphonium based ionic liquids methylimidazolium based ionic imidazolium based ionic liquids and pyridinium based ionic liquids Wasserscheid Keim 2000 39 3772 . Specific variations of the invention may use TTPT MOIC or BMPT. However other ionic liquids are contemplated and can be substituted.

Exemplary phosphonium based ionic liquids include trihexyl 2 hydroxyethyl phosphonium octylsulfate 4 Acetyloxy butyl trihexylphosphonium iodide 2 Heptyloxy 2 oxoethyl trihexylphosphonium bromide Trihexyl 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl phosphonium bromide Trihexyl 2 oxo 2 pentyloxy ethyl phosphonium bromide 4 Acetyloxy butyl tricyclohexylphosphonium octylsulfate 4 Acetyloxy butyl tricyclohexylphosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 4 Acetyloxy butyl tricyclohexylphosphonium iodide Tricyclohexyl 2 heptyloxy 2 oxoethyl phosphonium octylsulfate Tricyclohexyl 2 heptyloxy 2 oxoethyl phosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Tricyclohexyl 2 heptyloxy 2 oxoethyl phosphonium bromide Tricyclohexyl 2 oxo 2 pentyloxy ethyl phosphonium octylsulfate Tricyclohexyl 2 oxo 2 pentyloxy ethyl phosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Trihexyl 2 propen 1 yl phosphonium bromide Trihexyl methoxymethyl phosphonium chloride Trihexyl 2 hydroxyethyl phosphonium bromide Trihexyl methoxymethyl phosphonium octylsulfate Trihexyl 2 propen 1 yl phosphonium octylsulfate 4 Acetyloxy butyl trihexylphosphonium octylsulfate 2 Heptyloxy 2 oxoethyl trihexylphosphonium octylsulfate Trihexyl 2 oxo 2 pentyloxy ethyl phosphonium octylsulfate Trihexyl 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl phosphonium octylsulfate Trihexyl methoxymethyl phosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Trihexyl 2 propen 1 yl phosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 4 Acetyloxy butyl trihexylphosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 2 Heptyloxy 2 oxoethyl trihexylphosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Trihexyl 2 oxo 2 pentyloxy ethyl phosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Trihexyl 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl phosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Tricyclohexyl 2 oxo 2 pentyloxy ethyl phosphonium bromide Tricyclohexyl 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl phosphonium octylsulfate Trihexyltetra decylphosphonium dodecylbenzenesulfonate Tributyltetradecylphosphonium dodecylbenzenesulfonate Trihexyl 2 hydroxyethyl phosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Trihexyltetradecylphosphonium trifluoromethanesulfonate Ethyltrihexylphosphonium bromide Trihexylpropylphosphonium bromide Butyltrihexylphosphonium bromide Tetrahexylphosphonium chloride Heptyltrihexylphosphonium chloride Tricyclohexyl 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl phosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Tricyclohexyl 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl phosphonium bromide Tetrahexylphosphonium bromide Trihexyltetradecylphosphonium methanesulfonate Hexadecyltrihexylphosphonium chloride Dodecyltrihexylphosphonium chloride Decyltrihexylphosphonium chloride Trihexyloctylphosphonium chloride Trihexyltetradecylphosphonium trifluorotris pentafluorethyl phosphate 1 Trihexyltetradecylphosphonium tetrafluoroborate 1 Trihexyltetradecylphosphonium N cyano cyanamide Trihexyltetradecylphosphonium decanoate Trihexyltetradecylphosphonium bis 2 4 4 trimethylpentyl phosphinate Trihexyltetradecylphosphonium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Methyltris 2 methylpropyl phosphonium 4 methylbenzenesulfonate Tetrabutylphosphonium bis 1 2 benzenediolato 2 O O borate 1 Trihexyltetradecylphosphonium hexafluorophosphate 1 Trihexyltetra decylphosphonium bromide Tetrabutylphosphonium bromide and Tributylethylphosphonium diethyl phosphate.

Exemplary imidazolium based ionic liquids include 1 Methyl 3 propyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Methyl 3 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl 1H imidazolium octylsulfate 1 2 Hydroxyethyl 3 methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 3 Didecyl 2 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1H Imidazolium 1 ethyl 2 8 heptadecenyl 4 5 dihydro 3 2 hydroxyethyl ethylsulfate Imidazolium compounds 2 C17 and C17 unsatd. alkyl 1 2 C18 and C18 unsatd. amido ethyl 4 5 dihydro 1 methyl Me sulfates 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium acetate 1 Methyl 3 3 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 8 tridecafluorooctyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Methyl 3 2 oxo 2 pentyloxy ethyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium thiocyanate 1 7 Carboxyheptyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 8 Hydroxyoctyl 1 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Methyl 3 3 oxobutyl 1H imidazolium bromide 3 3 Carboxypropyl 1 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 4 Hydroxybutyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Methyl 3 2 propenyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethyl sulfate 1 Methyl 3 2 phenylethyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Methyl 3 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Methyl 3 2 oxo 2 pentyloxy ethyl 1H imidazolium octylsulfate 1 Methyl 3 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Methyl 3 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl 1H imidazolium N cyanocyanamide 1 Methyl 3 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Methyl 3 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Methyl 3 2 octyloxy 2 oxoethyl 1H imidazolium bromide 3 2 Hexyloxy 2 oxoethyl 1 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 3 2 Butoxy 2 oxoethyl 1 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 3 2 Methoxy 2 oxoethyl 1 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 3 2 Diethylamino 2 oxoethyl 1 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 3 2 Butylmethylamino 2 oxoethyl 1 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 3 2 Butylamino 2 oxoethyl 1 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 3 2 Ethoxy 2 oxoethyl 1 methyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 3 2 Ethoxy 2 oxoethyl 1 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 2 Dimethyl 3 2 oxo 2 pentyloxy ethyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 2 Dimethyl 3 2 oxo 2 pentyloxy ethyl 1H imidazolium octylsulfate 1 2 Dimethyl 3 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 2 Dimethyl 3 2 oxo 2 propoxyethyl 1H imidazolium octylsulfate 1 Methyl 3 2 phenylethyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Methyl 3 2 phenylethyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Methyl 3 phenylmethyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Ethyl 3 propyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Methyl 3 nonyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Ethyl 3 hexyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Ethyl 3 hexyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Heptyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Heptyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 3 Diethyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Methyl 3 nonyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Decyl 3 ethyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Methyl 3 pentyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Methyl 3 4 methylphenyl methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Methyl 3 pentyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Methyl 3 4 methylphenyl methyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Methyl 3 propyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium trifluorotris pentafluoroethyl phosphate 1 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium bis ethanedioato 2 O O borate 1 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium bis 1 2 benzenediolato 2 O O borate 1 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium N cyanocyanamide 1 Butyl 2 3 dimethyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Hexyl 2 3 dimethyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium bis pentafluoroethyl phosphinate 1 Decyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium trifluoromethanesulfonate 1 Hexyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Decyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Methyl 3 tetradecyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Hexyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Methyl 3 octyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium trifluoromethanesulfonate 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Methyl 3 octyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium methyl sulfate 1 Hexyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Hexyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Methyl 3 octyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Hexyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium trifluorotris pentafluoroethyl phosphate 1 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Hexadecyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl methanaminate 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium OC 6 11 hexafluoroantimonate 1 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Methyl 3 octadecyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Methyl 3 octyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium T 4 tetracarbonylcobaltate 1 1 Butyl 2 3 dimethyl 1H imidazolium trifluoromethanesulfonate 1 Methyl 3 phenylmethyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium trifluoroacetate 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium N cyanocyanamide 1 Methyl 3 phenylmethyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium methyl sulfate 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium octylsulfate 3 Methyl 1 octyl 1H imidazolium octylsulfate 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium iodide 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium thiocyanate 1 Methyl 3 propyl 1H imidazolium iodide 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium octylsulfate 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium hydrogen sulfate 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium ethyl sulfate 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium hydrogen sulfate 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium tetracyanoborate 1 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium trifluorotris pentafluoroethyl phosphate 1 1 Cyanomethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 2 Hydroxyethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Methyl 3 octyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium methanesulfonate 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium methanesulfonate 1 Ethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethyl sulfate 1 Methyl 3 phenylmethyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Hexyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 Hexyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium trifluorotris heptafluoropropyl phosphate 1 1 Methyl 3 octylimidazolium trifluoromethanesulfonate 1 Methyl 3 pentyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Heptyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Decyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Methyl 3 nonyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Decyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Methyl 3 propyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 2 Ethoxyethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium bromide 1 2 Ethoxyethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 2 Methoxyethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 2 Hydroxyethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium iodide 1 3 Methoxypropyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Ethoxymethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Hexyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium tris trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methide 1 1 1 Methyl 3 propyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 3 Methoxypropyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 2 Methoxyethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Cyanomethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 3 Hydroxypropyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Octyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium trifluorotris pentafluoroethyl phosphate 1 1 Butyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium tetrachloroferrate 1 1 Butyl 3 ethyl 1H imidazolium trifluoromethanesulfonate 1 Butyl 3 ethyl 1H imidazolium trifluoroacetate 1 Hexyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium salt with 1 2 benzisothiazol 3 2H one 1 1 dioxide 1 1 1 Ethoxymethyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 3 Hydroxypropyl 3 methyl 1H imidazolium chloride 1 Butyl 3 ethyl 1H imidazolium tetrafluoroborate 1 3 alkoxymethyl 1 methylimidazolium salts of Cl BF and PF 1 ethyl 3 methylimidazolium dicyanamide 1 butyl 3 methylimidazolium nitrate1 alkyl 3 methylimidazolium 1 alkylpyridinium1 butyl 3 methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate and 1 butyl 3 methylimidazolium chloride

Exemplary pyridinium based ionic liquids include 1 Butoxymethyl 3 hydroxypyridinium 6 methyl 2 2 dioxo 1 2 3 oxathiazin 4 3H onate 1 1 3 Methyl 1 octylpyridinium bromide 1 Heptyloxy methyl 3 hydroxypyridinium salt with 1 2 benzisothiazol 3 2H one 1 1 dioxide 1 1 1 Heptyloxy methyl 3 hydroxypyridinium chloride 3 Hydroxy 1 propoxymethyl pyridinium chloride 3 Hydroxy 1 propoxymethyl pyridinium salt with 1 2 benzisothiazol 3 2H one 1 1 dioxide 1 1 3 Hydroxy 1 propoxymethyl pyridinium 6 methyl 2 2 dioxo 1 2 3 oxathiazin 4 3H onate 1 1 1 Butyl 3 5 dimethylpyridinium bromide 3 Butoxycarbonyl 1 butylpyridinium octyl sulfate 3 Butoxycarbonyl 1 methylpyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 3 Butoxycarbonyl 1 methylpyridinium iodide 3 Butoxycarbonyl 1 methylpyridinium octyl sulfate 1 2 Ethoxy 2 oxoethyl pyridinium octyl sulfate 3 Hydroxy 1 undecyloxy methyl pyridinium salt with 1 2 benzisothiazol 3 2H one 1 1 dioxide 1 1 1 Butylpyridinium N cyanocyanamide 3 Hydroxy 1 undecyloxy methyl pyridinium 6 methyl 2 2 dioxo 1 2 3 oxathiazin 4 3H onate 1 1 1 Butyl 3 5 dimethylpyridinium N cyanocyanamide 3 Methyl 1 propylpyridinium bromide 3 Hydroxy 1 octadecyloxy methyl pyridinium salt with 1 2 benzisothiazol 3 2H one 1 1 dioxide 1 1 1 Butyl 3 butylamino carbonyl pyridinium octyl sulfate 3 Hydroxy 1 octadecyloxy methyl pyridinium 6 methyl 2 2 dioxo 1 2 3 oxathiazin 4 3H onate 1 1 1 Hexyloxy methyl 3 hydroxypyridinium 6 methyl 2 2 dioxo 1 2 3 oxathiazin 4 3H onate 1 1 1 Hexyloxy methyl 3 hydroxypyridinium salt with 1 2 benzisothiazol 3 2H one 1 1 dioxide 1 1 1 Butoxymethyl 3 hydroxypyridinium salt with 1 2 benzisothiazol 3 2H one 1 1 dioxide 1 1 1 Hexyl 3 methylpyridinium bromide 1 Heptyloxy methyl 3 hydroxypyridinium 6 methyl 2 2 dioxo 1 2 3 oxathiazin 4 3H onate 1 1 3 Hydroxy 1 undecyloxy methyl pyridinium chloride 1 2 Ethoxy 2 oxoethyl pyridinium bromide 1 Butyl 3 4 dimethylpyridinium chloride 1 Butylpyridinium chloride 1 Butylpyridinium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Butylpyridinium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Butyl 4 methylpyridinium chloride 1 Butyl 4 methylpyridinium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Butyl 4 methylpyridinium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Hexylpyridinium hexafluorophosphate 1 1 Butyl 3 methylpyridinium bromide 4 Methyl 1 octylpyridinium chloride 1 Butylpyridinium methyl sulfate 1 Butylpyridinium bromide 1 Butyl 3 5 dimethylpyridinium chloride 1 Butyl 3 methylpyridinium chloride 1 Butyl 3 methylpyridinium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Hexylpyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Butylpyridinium trifluoromethanesulfonate 1 Hexylpyridinium trifluoromethanesulfonate 1 Octylpyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methane sulfonamide 1 Octylpyridinium chloride 1 Ethylpyridinium chloride 1 Butyl 3 methylpyridinium hexafluorophosphate 1 4 Dimethylamino 1 hexylpyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methane sulfonamide 1 3 Hydroxypropyl pyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Butyl 3 methylpyridinium N cyano cyanamide 1 Hexyl 3 methylpyridinium chloride 1 Hexyl 4 methylpyridinium chloride 3 Methyl 1 octylpyridinium chloride 1 Hexylpyridinium chloride 1 2 M ethoxyethyl pyridinium chloride 1 3 Hydroxypropyl pyridinium chloride 1 2 Ethoxyethyl pyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 2 Ethoxyethyl pyridinium bromide 1 Ethoxymethyl pyridinium chloride 1 2 Hydroxyethyl pyridinium iodide 4 Methyl 1 octylpyridinium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Hexyl 4 methylpyridinium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Butyl 2 methylpyridinium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Butyl 3 4 dimethylpyridinium tetrafluoroborate 1 1 Butyl 3 5 dimethylpyridinium tetrafluoroborate 1 4 Dimethylamino 1 ethylpyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Ethoxymethyl pyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 2 Methoxyethyl pyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methane sulfonamide 1 Butyl 4 dimethylamino pyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 2 Hydroxyethyl pyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 4 Dimethylamino 1 hexylpyridinium chloride 1 Butyl 2 methylpyridinium chloride 1 Butyl 4 dimethylamino pyridinium chloride 1 Propylpyridinium bromide 1 Propylpyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Pentylpyridinium bromide 1 Pentylpyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methane sulfonamide 1 Butyl 4 methylpyridinium tetracyanoborate 1 4 Dimethylamino 1 ethylpyridinium bromide 1 Butyl 4 methylpyridinium trifluorotris pentafluoroethyl phosphate 1 1 3 Sulfopropyl pyridinium trifluoromethanesulfonate 1 3 Methoxypropyl pyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 4 Dimethylamino 1 methylpyridinium iodide 1 3 Methoxypropyl pyridinium chloride 1 Cyanomethyl pyridinium chloride 1 Cyanomethyl pyridinium 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide 1 Butylpyridinium chlorohexachlorodialuminate N ethylpyridinium tetrafluoroborate N ethylpyridinium trifluoroacetate 1 butyl 3 methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate 1 alkyl 3 methylimidazolium pyridinium chloride 1 butyl 3 5 dimethylpyridinium bromide N methyl N alkylpyrrolidinium 1 ethylpyridinium chloride and 1 butyl 3 methylimidazolium chloride.

The disclosed mixture may be coated to the inner wall of an extraction column such as an extraction column or capillary. For example the sol gel mixture may be added to the interior lumen of an extraction column and allowed to bond to the interior wall of the extraction column. Following bonding any unbonded sol gel mixture is removed from the extraction column. After coating the column is optionally conditioned in a gas chromatography oven by elevating the temperature of the gas chromatography oven at until the oven reaches a conditioning temperature. The conditioning temperature varies based on the sol gel and ionic liquid constituents but is generally between about 110 C. and 300 C. For example the conditioning may be at 120 C. 230 C. 240 C. 150 C. 160 C. 170 C. 180 C. 190 C. 200 C. 220 C. 240 C. 250 C. 260 C. 280 C. or 300 C.

The disclosures below are illustrative only. The amounts and or ratios of components will vary based on the sol gel precursor and ionic liquid selected. Additionally the use of catalyst will affect the rate of hydrolysis and may also allow variation from the ratios disclosed.

As used herein ionic liquid means a salt comprising a cation and an anion. The salt or hydrate or solvate of the sale is a liquid at ambient or near ambient temperature specifically having a melting point or range less than about 100 C. and possesses broad solvating properties for a range of polar and non polar compounds. An ionic liquid may comprise different salts such as mixtures of salts comprising two or more different cations anions or both. Hydrates and solvates are considered within the scope of ionic liquid . The ionic liquids are a phosphonium based imidazolium based pyridinium based or a combination thereof meaning the ionic liquids contain alkyl substituted phosphonium imidazolium and or pyridinium cations. Examples of phosphonium based imidazolium based and pyridinium based ionic liquids are discussed above.

The materials used herein were acquired from the following sources. Trihexyltetradecylphosphonium tetrafluroborate TTPT and 1 methyl 3 octylimidazolium chloride MOIC were obtained from Fluka Seelze Germany . Bis 3 methyldimethoxysilyl propyl polypropylene oxide BMPO was obtained from Gelest Inc. Morrisville Pa. . Fused silica capillary 250 m i.d. with a protective polyimide external coating was bought from Polymicro Technologies Phoenix Ariz. . Trifluoroacetic acid TFA 99 nonanol decanol and undecanol were secured from Acros Organics Morris Plains N.J. USA . Phenols 2 4 6 trichlorophenol 2 tert butyl 4 methoxyphenol pentachlorophenol aliphatic acids nonanoic acid decanoic acid and undecanoic acid aldehydes decanal undecanal and dodecanal ketones hexanophenone heptanophenone decanophenone anilines N butylaniline diphenylamine and acridine PAHs acenaphthene phenanthrene and pyrene tetraethoxysilane TEOS 99 and PDMDPS dodecanal hexanophenone heptanophenone methyltrimethoxysilane MTMS 98 tetramethoxysilane TMOS formic acid 96 PEG MW 600 and poly methylhydrosiloxane PMHS were acquired from SigmaAldrich St. Louis Mo. USA . Methylene chloride methanol Kimwipes polypropylene microcentrifuge tubes 2.0 mL and glass scintillation vials 6 mL were purchased from Fisher Scientific. Silanol terminated PDMS was obtained from United Chemical Technologies Bristol Pa. USA . Poly THF was a gift from BASF Parsippany N.J. USA . TTPT and BMPT were purchased from Fluka Seelze Germany . Chemical structures of sol solution components are illustrated in Table 1.

Nanopure deionized water 15.5 M was acquired using a Barnstead model 04741 Nanopure system Barnstead International Dubuque Iowa USA . Sol solution ingredients were mixed using a Fisher model G 560 Vortex Genie 2 Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. USA . Sol solutions were centrifuged with a Micromax Thermo IECOM3590 microcentrifuge NeedhamHeights Mass. USA . A gas pressure operated filling purging device Hayes Malik J. Chromatogr. B 695 1997 3 was used to introduce a sol solution into and to expel the solutions from fused silica capillaries and to pass helium He through the capillaries. A liquid sample dispenser Bigham et al. Anal. Chem. 74 2002 752 was used to facilitate gravity fed flow of aqueous samples through the sol gel microextraction capillary. An oxyacetylene torch Smith Equipment Watertown S. Dak USA was used to flame seal fused silica microextraction capillaries. An in house designed liquid sample dispenser Baltussen et al. J. Microcolumn Sep. 11 1999 737 was used to facilitate the gravity fed flow of aqueous samples through the sol gel microextraction capillary. A Shimadzu model GC 17 capillary gas chromatograph equipped with a flame ionization detector FID Shimadzu Kyoto Japan was used for CME GC experiments. ChromPerfect for Windows version 3.5 computer software Justice Laboratory Software Denville N.J. USA was used for on line data collection and processing. SEM images were obtained with a Hitachi model S 800 scanning electron microscope Hitachi Tokyo Japan .

PDMS BMPO or polyTHF was individually weighed into a clean microcentrifuge tube in the amount shown in Table 2. In all cases a mixture of 250 L of methylene chloride and 50 L of ionic liquid TTPT or MOIC was added.

Next TEOS 50 L and PMHS 10 L were added in sequence for PDMS. In the case of poly THF PDMDSP and BMPO sol gels no PMHS was added as seen in Tables 2 and 3. This was followed by the addition of 504 TFA 99 . After the addition of each chemical ingredient the solution was vortexed for 1 min to ensure thorough mixing. The sol solution was further centrifuged for 4 min at 14 000 rpm 18 297 g . The supernatant was decanted into a clean microcentrifuge tube. Sol gels without ionic liquid PDMS no IL polyTHF no IL PDMDPS no IL and BMPO no IL were prepared in a similar manner except that 300 L of CHClwas used as solvent instead of a mixture of CHCl 250 L and TTPT 50 L . An ionic liquid mediated PEG sol gel PEG IL and a PEG sol gel that did not contain IL PEG no IL were prepared in analogous manner using the ionic liquid BMPT 147.8 L methanol 40 L water 25 L MTMS 100 L TMOS 50 L and formic acid 61.8 L .

The main reactions that take place in the sol solution include hydrolysis of the sol gel precursor s and polycondensation of sol gel active species Brinker Scherer Sol Gel Science The Physics and Chemistry of Sol Gel Processing Academic Press San Diego 1990 . These reactions occur simultaneously and are affected by various experimental factors such as water content type of catalyst used precursor identity nature of solvent s and other additives e.g. organic molecules Mackenzie Ulrich Ultrastructure Processing of Advanced Ceramics Wiley New York 1988 . In this case TFA was used as the catalyst for sol gel PDMS polyTHF or BMPO coatings while formic acid was used as a catalyst for the sol gel PEG coatings. No extra water was added to the systems that utilized TTPT as 1 it created a phase separation in PDMS IL and 2 sol gel systems that contained BMPO gelled instantly in its presence. Trace amounts of water in the TFA and the methylene chloride were enough to initiate the hydrolysis of the sol gel precursor. Water generated from the condensation of those hydrolyzed products further facilitated the hydrolysis reaction.

Sol gel reactions allowed polymeric chains of BMPO or PDMDPS to become chemically incorporated in the sol gel network as an organic component of the organic inorganic hybrid coating and also to covalently anchor the coating to the inner surface of a fused silica capillary.

ILs were used as co solvents and as porogens in the sol gel system. Advantages of using ILs as solvents for reactions include their ability to be recycled high thermal stability and the improved stability of reactants in ILs Liu et al. Chem. Commun. 13 2005 1778 . Advantages of using ILs as porogens instead of organic molecules in sol gel systems include the effect that the cation and the anion portions of the IL have on pore structure and distribution Zhou et al. Nano Lett. 4 2004 477 Klingshirn et al. J. Mater. Chem. 15 2005 5174 Adams et al. J. Chem. 54 2001 679 Zhang et al. Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 119 2009 97 and the ability of ILs to decompose from sol gel systems without leaving residues behind Klingshirn et al. J. Mater. Chem. 15 2005 5174 .

The supernatant of the centrifuged sol solution produced in Example 1 was immediately utilized to coat the capillaries. For each sol gel composition a hydrothermally treated Hayes PhD Dissertation University of South Florida Tampa Fla. 2000 fused silica capillary 50 cm 250 m i.d. was installed on a home built filling purging device Hayes Malik J. Chromatogr. B 695 1997 3 . The capillary was filled with the sol solution using helium 20 psi 1.38 10Pa until full. After several drops of the coating sol solution dripped out of the capillary its exit end was sealed with a rubber septum. The solution was allowed to reside inside the capillary for 20 min to facilitate the formation of a surface bonded sol gel coating. After this in capillary residence period the rubber septum was removed from the capillary end and the un bonded bulk sol solution was expelled from the capillary under helium pressure.

For the TTPT ionic liquid mediated sol gel coatings the capillaries were purged under 20 psi 1.38 10Pa helium pressure for 60 min prior to thermal conditioning which was somewhat different for coatings with different organic ligands. The sol gel PDMS coated capillaries were thermally conditioned in a GC oven under He purge 1 mL min from 40 C. to 300 C. at 1 C. min and were held at 300 C. for 300 min. The polyTHF and BMPO sol gel coated capillaries were conditioned to a final temperature of 250 C. and 280 C. respectively using the same temperature program.

The conditioned capillaries were rinsed with 2 mL of 1 1 v v CHCl CHOH mixture to remove any residual IL or its decomposition products. The capillaries were further dried under helium purge in a GC oven by raising the temperature from 40 C. to 300 C. for PDMS 250 C. for polyTHF or 280 C. for BMPO at a rate of 10 C. min and holding at the final temperature for 30 min.

For the BMPT ionic liquid mediated sol gel PEG capillaries were flame sealed with an oxy acetylene torch and then thermally conditioned in a GC oven from 40 C. to 110 C. at 5 C. min holding at 110 C. for 100 min. Following this the ends of the capillaries were cut open with an alumina wafer and rinsed with a 2 mL mixture of CHCl CHOH 1 1 v v using 5 psi 3.45 10Pa helium in the filling purging device to remove any remaining ionic liquid. The capillaries were further conditioned under He purge 1 mL min in a GC oven by programming the temperature from 40 C. to 250 C. at 1 C. min and was held at 250 C. for 120 min.

The sol gel coated capillaries prepared without ionic liquid TTPT or BMPT were thermally conditioned analogous to their IL mediated counterparts for comparative purposes. The conditioned sol gel capillaries were then cut into 11 cm long pieces that were further used for capillary microextraction. Fragments of the sol gel networks evolving in the vicinity of the fused silica capillary inner walls had the opportunity to become covalently bonded to it via condensation reactions with silanol groups on the fused silica capillary inner surface as seen in and B .

Capillaries produced as described in Example 2 were analyzed. A CME GC analysis was conduced with aqueous samples which were prepared using compounds from various chemical classes aliphatic alcohols aliphatic aldehydes aromatic ketones and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons PAHs . For each analyte a stock solution 10 mg mL was prepared in methanol and was stored in a surface deactivated 6 mL glass scintillation vial. Fresh aqueous samples were prepared prior to extraction by further diluting these stock solutions with DI water to ng mL levels. CME was performed as previously described Bigham et al. Anal. Chem. 74 2002 752 . Briefly an 11 cm long sol gel coated microextraction capillary was vertically connected to the bottom of the empty gravity fed sample dispenser Bigham et al. Anal. Chem. 74 2002 752 . Liquid sample 15 mL was then loaded into the dispenser from the top and allowed to flow through the capillary under gravity for 45 min. The capillary was then disconnected from the dispenser and any remaining solution was removed from the capillary by touching the end of the capillary with Kimwipes tissue paper. The microextraction capillary was then installed in the GC injector such that approximately 9 cm of the sol gel capillary remained inside the GC injection port previously cooled down to 40 C. and approximately 2 cm of it protruded into the GC oven. This was accomplished by providing a gas tight connection of the capillary with the lower end of the injection port with the help of a nut and a graphite ferrule. The lower free end of the microextraction capillary located inside the GC oven was connected to one end of a two way press fit fused silica connector. Further a Restek Crossbond 14 cyanopropylphenyl 86 PDMS 15 m 0.25 mm i.d. GC column inlet was attached to the other end of the connector. The extracted analytes residing in the sol gel coating of the microextraction capillary were then thermally desorbed from the capillary by rapidly raising the temperature 60 C. min of the injection port from 40 C. to 300 C. for the sol gel PDMS from 40 C. to 250 C. for the sol gel PEG and polyTHF and from 40 C. to 280 C. for the sol gel BMPO coated microextraction capillaries. Desorption of the analytes was performed in the splitless injection mode keeping the split closed for the entire CME GC analysis. The desorbed analytes were swept onto the GC column by the carrier gas flow and were focused at the inlet of the GC column maintained at 35 C. Following this the GC oven temperature was programmed from 35 C. 1 min to 270 C. at a rate of 20 C. min to achieve separation of the extracted analytes transferred to the GC column. The column was held at a final temperature of 250 C. when sol gel PEG or polyTHF microextraction capillaries were used. Analytes were detected using FID at 350 C.

Scanning electron microscopy SEM was used to investigate the morphology of the PDMS IL and PDMS no IL sol gel coatings as seen in and B . The IL mediated sol gel microextraction capillaries were rinsed with a 2 mL mixture 1 1 v v of methylene chloride and methanol prior to acquiring SEM images. Rinsing removed any debris and unbonded chemicals from the thermally conditioned coating leaving the chemically bonded sol gel coating on the surface. Since the analytical data was collected after rinsing it is obvious that the all of the sol gel coatings survived rinsing and were solvent stable. As the SEM images show the ionic liquid mediated sol gel coating seen in appears to have a more porous texture than the PDMS no IL coating seen in . This is an indication that the IL TTPT affected the structure of the overall sol gel.

In the case of the PDMS sol gels the addition of phosphonium based IL TTPT slowed down the gelation by about 1.5 h in comparison with the sol gel that did not contain the IL. These results are in agreement with those of Karout and Pierre Karout Pierre J. Non Cryst. Solid 353 2007 2900 who also observed an increase in gelation time due to the increase in relative amounts of pyridinium based and imidazolium based ILs in sol gel systems. The slower gelation in the ionic liquid mediated sol gels can be attributed to the increased viscosity of the sol solution due to the addition of the IL. The kinematic viscosity of TTPT is 1117.80 mms Merck Ionic Liquids New Materials for New Applications Merck KGaA Darmstadt Germany 2009 compared to that of methylene chloride which is 0.3298 mms California Environmental Protection Agency Air Resources Board 2009 . Further it is reasonable to assume that the IL did not play a role in extractions since the thermal decomposition temperature of TTPT is 190 C. Merck Ionic Liquids New Materials for New Applications Merck KGaA Darmstadt Germany 2009 and the ionic liquid mediated sol gel PDMS microextraction capillaries were heated in an inert environment to 300 C. Therefore it can be safely assumed that during thermal conditioning the IL had decomposed and the decomposition products were at least partially removed from the capillary with the purging helium flow. Any remaining products of the decomposition were further removed from the capillary during the rinsing step.

The pre concentration abilities of the two types of sol gel PDMS capillaries PDMS IL and PDMS no IL were compared to determine the effect of the IL on the resulting sol gel sorbent. Extraction of an aqueous sample containing 125 ppb dodecanal 100 ppb heptanophenone and 50 ppb pyrene was performed on the two types of sol gel capillaries. shows two chromatograms representing extraction results obtained on sol gel PDMS IL and sol gel PDMS no IL capillaries respectively. These chromatograms show that the sol gel PDMS IL coating provided significantly higher extraction utility than the PDMS no IL. This in turn translates into lower detection limits for the sol gel PDMS IL microextraction capillary as seen in Table 4.

Run to run and capillary to capillary repeatability data were collected for each analyte on the two types of capillaries in individual CME GC experiments seen in Table 3. In all repeatability experiments 500 ng mL dodecanal 200 ng mL heptanophenone and 50 ng mL pyrene aqueous samples were individually extracted using the two types of capillaries. Run to run GC peak area repeatability data was collected by extracting the sample analytes in individual experiments on each type of capillary using three replicate measurements. For all three analytes the sol gel PDMS IL coated capillary provided consistent run to run RSD values between 4.0 and 5.0 . On the other hand quite scattered RSD values 2.76 for pyrene 6.45 for heptanophenone and 14.1 for dodecanal were obtained for the same analytes using the sol gel PDMS no IL coated capillary. This coating also provided worse limits of detection for all three analytes. Both sol gel PDMS IL and sol gel PDMS no IL coated capillaries provided significantly higher detection limits for dodecanal compared to pyrene and heptanophenone.

Capillary to capillary reproducibility data was obtained by extracting each sample in triplicate onto six individually prepared capillaries three PDMS IL and three with PDMS no IL capillaries. This data characterized the reproducibility of the sol gel coating method. The coatings prepared with ionic liquid PDMS IL provided excellent capillary to capillary repeatability. Peak area RSD values of 2.26 0.15 and 4.07 were obtained for dodecanal heptanophenone and pyrene respectively. The sol gel coating prepared without ionic liquid PDMS no IL provided RSD values of 7.79 for heptanophenone and 9.72 for pyrene. Repeated extractions were made on the capillaries without deterioration of performance over a period of 9 months. Furthermore the coating is solvent stable and can be rinsed to ensure consistent performance.

In CME GC experiments both types of sol gel PDMS capillaries provided limits of detection using a signal to noise ratio of 3 in the ng L range. However the sol gel PDMS IL microextraction capillary provided better detection limits 3.2 17.4 ng L than the sol gel PDMS no IL capillary 4.9 487.0 ng L . This is likely because the sol gel PDMS IL capillary had a more porous morphology as seen in and B and thereby provided a higher surface area for sorption. These results clearly suggest that the ionic liquid had a positive effect on the extraction ability of the sol gel PDMS coating. Furthermore PDMS sol gel coatings are known to be thermally stable beyond 350 C. Wang et al. Anal. Chem. 69 1997 4566 .

Since CME is a non exhaustive equilibrium extraction technique Eisert Pawliszyn Anal. Chem. 69 1997 3140 it is important to determine the time required for the analyte to reach a sorption desorption equilibrium between the sol gel coating and the sample. The extraction profiles of the PDMS IL and PDMS no IL capillaries were compared using heptanophenone seen in and phenanthrene seen in as test solutes. The extraction profiles seen in and B indicate that the PDMS IL coating had a higher capacity but the equilibrium is reached at a slower pace than on sol gel PDMS no IL coating. The extraction time required for the curve to reach the plateau indicates the onset of extraction equilibrium. Beyond this time no more analytes can be extracted. In the case of PDMS no IL extraction time was 10 15 min for both analytes but in the case of PDMS IL the equilibrium was attained at about 60 min for both analytes. Thus fewer experiments were required for PDMS no IL since the equilibrium time was reached quickly. This extraction behavior on the ionic liquid mediated coating can be explained by the slow diffusion of analytes in the liquid filling the porous sol gel structure.

Attempts were made to prepare ionic liquid mediated polar sol gel coatings based on PEG and polyTHF. BMPT was tested in conjunction with the PEG sol gel coating while TTPT was used to prepare the polyTHF sol gel coating and again sol gel coatings were prepared for each polymer without ionic liquid no IL . SEM was used to investigate the morphology of the sol gel coated capillaries. Cross sections of the capillaries showed that PEG IL sol gel coating seen in appeared more porous than its counterpart prepared without IL seen in . The same trend was observed for the sol gel polyTHF coatings with sol gel polyTHF IL seen in observed more porous than sol gel polyTHF no IL seen in . Reproducible coating thickness could be obtained with IL mediated sol gels. For example three individually prepared PEG IL sol gel coated capillaries had an average thickness of 5.8 m with a standard deviation of 0.3 m an RSD value of 5.2 . Sol gel coatings with greater porous morphology obtained with the help of ILs were expected to provide better performance in extraction. However extractions using the ionic liquid mediated PEG and the polyTHF sol gel porous coatings showed that this was not the case. The PEG no IL seen in top plot and the polyTHF no IL seen in top plot coated microextraction capillaries provided better performance in CME GC. A peak area for 100 ppb decanol extracted on the sol gel PEG IL coating was 72 329 arbitrary units and the peak area provided by the sol gel PEG no IL coating was 266 681 arbitrary units. As shows three analytes decanol hexanophenone and phenanthrene were poorly extracted on the polyTHF IL microextraction capillary bottom compared to the polyTHF no IL capillary top . It appears that while the sol gel PEGIL and polyTHF IL coatings were more porous they might have consisted mainly of silica with only very small amounts of polymer incorporated into the sol gel network resulting in inferior extraction performance.

Even though the PEG and the polyTHF sol gel coated capillaries were prepared utilizing different ILs and different thermal conditioning methods they both demonstrated that a C OH terminated polymer does not create effective sol gel sorbents when mediated by an IL. An important factor in this phenomenon is the lower reactivity of the terminal hydroxyl groups on PEG and poly THF compared to silanol groups on hydroxy terminated PDMS and alkoxy groups on silica based sol gel precursors Huang Wilkes Synthesis in Wang Zhang Eds. Handbook of Nanophase and Nanostructured Materials vol. 1 Kluwer Academic Plenum Publishers New York 2003 p. 90 . Because of higher reactivity of Si OH and Si OR groups compared with C OH groups polycondensation reactions are likely to predominantly take place between chemical species containing the sol gel active Si OH silanol and or alkoxysilane groups. Condensation reactions between a Si OH or a Si OR group and the terminal C OH hydroxyl group of the polymers can be expected to occur less effectively. Apparently condensation of C OH terminated polymers is slowed down even further or is hindered when utilizing an ionic liquid in the sol gel system. While the ILs help develop porous morphology in coatings they appear not to produce sol gel coatings that are effective at microextraction due to quantitative deficiency of bonded organic polymer ligands. As was the case with the PDMS based sol gel sorbents it can be assumed that the ILs played no role in extractions. As mentioned this is because TTPT decomposes at 190 C. Merck Ionic Liquids New Materials for New Applications Merck KGaA Darmstadt Germany 2009 and the capillaries prepared with this IL were conditioned at temperatures higher than 250 C. and they were rinsed with organic solvents before use. Although the decomposition temperature of BMPT is 295 C. Merck Ionic Liquids New Materials for New Applications Merck KGaA Darmstadt Germany 2009 and the PEG capillaries prepared with it were conditioned at a lower temperature this IL was removed from the capillary by rinsing with copious amounts of methylene chloride and methanol mixture.

In order to determine if in fact PEG and polyTHF were not being incorporated into the sol gel network in the presence of an IL due to their low reactivity a novel sol gel system was investigated that contained instead of PEG or polyTHF bis 3 methyldimethoxysilyl propyl polypropylene oxide BMPO a polymer with sol gel active methoxysilane termination and a flexible propylene oxide repeating unit seen in Table 1. BMPO has not been utilized in the preparation of microextraction coatings. It has however been used previously to synthesize hybrid inorganic organic polymer membranes Li et al. Electrochim. Acta 51 2006 1351 . Two types of sol gel BMPO coatings a coatings prepared with the use of ionic liquid TTPT BMPO IL and b coatings prepared without the use of TTPT BMPO no IL shown in Table 2. The ionic liquid slowed the rate of gelation in the case of sol gel BMPO system just like it did in the sol gel PDMS system. BMPO IL sol solution gelled in more than 24 h and BMPO no IL gelled in 16 h.

As shows unlike the IL mediated PEG and polyTHF sol gel coated capillaries the IL mediated BMPO sol gel seen in top plot coated capillaries could extract analytes decanol hexanophenone and phenanthrene with significantly higher extraction efficiency than its non IL counterparts seen in bottom plot. Compared to the BMPO no IL sol gel coating the BMPO IL sol gel coating provided 3.6 3.5 and 8.1 times more efficient extractions for decanol hexanophenone and phenanthrene respectively. Since BMPO is a sol gel active polymer that acquires Si OH termination after hydrolysis it gets effectively bonded into the sol gel network as depicted in even in the presence of IL because of higher reactivity terminal silanol groups.

Limits of detection using a signal to noise ratio of 3 for the investigated analytes in CME GC FID analysis were determined to be in the ng L range for the BMPO IL and BMPO no IL capillaries. The BMPO IL coating provided a limit of detection of 53.0 ng L for decanol 41.0 ng L for hexanophenone and 3.5 ng L for phenanthrene. The BMPO no IL capillary provided a limit of detection of 186.0 ng L for decanol 137.0 ng L for hexanophenone and 27.0 ng mL for phenanthrene. Thus the sol gel BMPO IL capillaries provided 3 5 times better detection limits than BMPO no IL capillaries.

This work demonstrated the possibility of using ILs in the preparation of both non polar PDMS and polar BMPO sol gel coating for CME. In both the cases the IL mediated sol gel coatings had significantly better extraction performance than analogous coatings prepared without ionic liquids. Thus IL mediated sol gel coatings open new possibilities for effective preconcentration of analytes since both polar and non polar sol gel coatings can be prepared with ionic liquid mediation. However when preparing non polar or polar hybrid organic inorganic sol gel sorbents using ILs it is vital to choose organic polymers and sol gel precursors with similar sol gel reactivity to ensure that the organic polymers are effectively incorporated into the sol gel network providing an efficient sol gel sorbent.

Hydrothermally treated Hayes Ph.D. Dissertation University of South Florida Tampa Fla. 2000 fused silica tubing 50 cm 0.25 mm i.d. was utilized to prepare sol gel coated microextraction capillaries. The fused silica capillary was set up in the filling purging device Hayes Malik J. Chromatogr. B 695 1997 3 and helium 20 psi 1.38 10Pa as discussed in Example 2. The solution was kept in the capillary for 20 min allowing a surface bonded sol gel coating to form. Then any un bonded sol solution was expelled from the capillary by purging with helium 20 psi 1.38 10Pa for 60 min. Portions of the sol gel BMPO seen in or PDMDPS seen in networks evolving near the fused silica capillary inner walls had the opportunity to become covalently bonded to it via condensation reactions with silanol groups on the capillary inner surface.

The BMPO sol gel capillaries prepared with or without IL mediation as indicated in Example 1 were thermally conditioned under helium purge in a GC oven from 40 C. to 280 C. at 1 C. min and were held at the final temperature for 300 min. The sol gel PDMDPS capillaries prepared with or without IL mediation were thermally conditioned using a temperature programming rate of 1 C. min to a final temperature of 300 C. for 300 min. The conditioned capillaries were rinsed with 2 mL of 1 1 v v methylene chloride methanol mixture and were dried under helium purge in a GC oven by programming the temperature from 40 C. to 280 C. for BMPO or 300 C. for PDMDPS at 10 C. min holding at a final temperature for 30 min. The finished sol gel coated capillaries were then chopped into 11 cm long pieces they were further used for CME.

Stock solutions 10 mg mL of test analytes from various chemical classes phenols acids amines alcohols aldehydes ketones and PAHs were prepared in methanol and were stored in glass scintillation vials. Aqueous test samples were prepared by diluting the stock solutions to ng mL levels with Nanopure water. CME experiments were conducted as earlier detailed Bigham et al. Anal. Chem. 74 2002 752 . Briefly an 11 cm long sol gel coated microextraction capillary was vertically connected to the bottom of the empty gravity fed sample dispenser. Liquid sample 15 mL was allowed to flow through the sol gel microextraction capillary under gravity for 45 min. Following this the capillary was removed from the dispenser and the microextraction capillary was installed in the GC injector. About 9 cm of the sol gel capillary was contained inside the GC injection port which was held at 40 C. . Only a 2 cm segment of the capillary remained in the GC oven. This was enabled by a gas tight connection of the capillary to the lower end of the GC injection port. The portion of the microextraction capillary that was inside the GC oven was connected to one end of a two way press fit fused silica connector. The inlet of a Restek Crossbond 14 cyanopropylphenyl 86 PDMS GC column 15 m 0.25 mm i.d. was coupled to the other end of the connector. Analytes that were extracted onto the sol gel coating of the microextraction capillary were then thermally desorbed from the capillary. This was accomplished by rapidly raising the temperature 60 C. min of the injection port from 40 C. to 280 C. for the sol gel BMPO and to 300 C. for the sol gel PDMDPS coated microextraction capillaries. Analytes were desorbed in the splitless injection mode and the split was kept closed for the entire CMEGC analysis. The mobile phase transferred the desorbed analytes onto the GC column and they were focused at the inlet of the GC column maintained at 35 C. The GC oven temperature was then programmed from 35 C. 1 min to 270 C. at a rate of 20 C. min to achieve chromatographic separation of the desorbed analytes that were further detected by an FID maintained at 350 C.

Extraction of an aqueous sample containing 500 ppb decanol 500 ppb hexanophenone and 200 ppb phenanthrene was performed on microextraction capillaries with different ionic liquid mediated sol gel coatings TTPT mediated BMPO MOIC mediated BMPO and MOIC mediated PDMDPS . For comparison the same extraction experiments were performed on sol gel capillaries prepared without the mediation of ILs BMPO no IL and PDMDPS no IL . The MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coating seen in and TTPT mediated sol gel BMPO coating seen in were both able to provide more efficient extractions than the BMPO no IL sol gel coating seen in . Likewise the MOIC mediated sol gel PDMDPS coating seen in bottom plot provided a superior extraction performance compared to the PDMDPS no IL coating seen in top plot. Clearly the ILs had an explicit effect on the extraction capability of the prepared sol gel sorbents. Both non polar PDMDPS and moderately polar BMPO sol gel sorbent coatings can be prepared following the described procedure. However in the case of BMPO based sol gels the MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coated capillary seen in provided better extraction performance than TTPT mediated sol gel BMPO coated capillary seen in . The MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coated microextraction capillary provided enhanced GC peak areas and the enhancement factors were 1.5 for decanol 2.3 for hexanophenone and 2.1 for phenanthrene.

ILs are known to act as porogens in sol gel systems Adams et al. Aust. J. Chem. 54 2001 679 Zhou e al. Nano Lett. 4 2004 477 Liu et al. J. Chen Anal. Chim. Acta 604 2007 107 Karout Pierre J. Non Cryst. Solids 353 2007 2900 Wang et al. Electrophoresis 29 2008 952 He et al. Talanta 74 2008 1126 Zhang et al. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 119 2009 97 Donato et al. J. Sol Gel Sci. Technol. 49 2009 71 . Thus the IL mediated sol gel coatings provided enhanced GC peak areas because they were more porous than the non IL mediated BMPO sol gel. Furthermore SEM investigation of the morphology of the two BMPO sol gel coatings revealed that the MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coating seen in had amore porous morphology than the TTPT mediated sol gel BMPO coating seen in . Enhanced GC peak areas provided by the MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coating is indicative of a higher surface area of this coating compared to the TTPT mediated sol gel BMPO coating. It has been pointed out Adams et al. Aust. J. Chem. 54 2001 679 that ILs with the same cation but different anions could have different effects on the porosity of mesoporous silica materials. It has also been noted that pore size of silica gel can be affected by variations of ILs Zhang et al. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 119 2009 97 . Therefore it is logical to assume that the structural differences of the ionic liquids seen in Table 1 likely resulted in varying effects on porosity of the sol gel BMPO material. Many ILs represent green solvents Forsyth et al. Aust. J. Chem. 57 2004 113 and have been used by separation scientists as chromatographic stationary phases Armstrong et al. Anal. Chem. 71 1999 3873 Anderson in M. Koel Ed. Ionic Liquids in Chemical Analysis CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 2009 p. 139 and as extraction solvents Huddleston et al. Chem. Commun. 16 1998 1765 . One important question that naturally arises is what role if any is played by the ionic liquids in the CME extraction process using sol gel coatings prepared with the mediation of an IL MOIC or TTPT . The answer becomes evident by looking into the decomposition temperatures of the used ILs. The decomposition for both of these ILs takes place at 190 C. Merck Ionic Liquids New Materials for New Applications Merck KGaA Darmstadt Germany 2009 Chan et al. Aust. J. Chem. 30 1977 2005 . Since the CME capillaries were thermally conditioned above decomposition temperatures of these ILs conditioning temperatures for sol gel BMPO and PDMDPS were 280 C. and 300 C. respectively it is safe to assume that the ILs had decomposed and the decomposition products had been carried away from the capillary by the purging flow of helium. Following this purging the capillaries were rinsed with a mixture of 1 1 v v CHCland CHOH and dried prior to use to ensure that any debris formed on the surface of the sol gel coating during heating as well as un bonded chemicals was removed. Thus it is logical to assert that the used ILs did not participate in the extraction process and that extraction of analytes from the sample matrix occurred by interaction with the organic inorganic hybrid sol gel coating.

Since the MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coated microextraction capillary provided the best extraction performance out of all of the prepared sol gel coatings these sol gel coatings were further investigated. illustrates the extraction profiles of 2 tert butyl 4 methoxyphenol decanol hexanophenone and phenanthrene on the MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO microextraction capillary. This IL mediated sol gel coating provided a fast equilibrium time 5 10 min for relatively polar compounds like 2 tert butyl 4 methoxyphenol decanol and hexanophenone and a slower equilibrium time 60 70 min for nonpolar analytes like phenanthrene. It is likely that size of the pores in the sorbent does not have a great effect on the mass transfer of the PAHs into and out of the sorbent. Other investigators have demonstrated that pore size in sol gels are in the nm range when ILs such as 1 butyl 3methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate Zhou et al. Nano Lett. 4 2004 477 Karout Pierre J. Non Cryst. Solids 353 2007 2900 1 butyl 3methylimidazolium chloride Klingshirn et al. J. Mater. Chem. 15 2005 5174 and 1 butyl 3 methylpyridinium tetrafluoroborate Karout Pierre J. Non Cryst. Solids 353 2007 2900 are utilized as additives in the system. The calculated van derWaals diameter of phenanthrene according to Bondi Bondi J. Phys. Chem. 68 1964 441 is 7.24 and that of 2 tert butyl 4 methoxyphenol is 7.16 . Since the PAH and the phenol have a very similar size it is likely that steric hindrance is not a major factor in the equilibrium kinetics. If this were the case then both the nonpolar phenanthrene and the polar 2 tert butyl 4 methoxyphenol would have had slow equilibrium kinetics. This is not observed in the experimental data seen in . The slow equilibrium kinetics for the PAHs is likely a result of the lower affinity of this type of nonpolar molecule for the polar sol gel sorbent. From a practicality perspective this is an important highly desirable result considering the difficulties associated with the extraction of polar analytes from aqueous matrices Fontanals et al. J. Chromatogr. A 1152 2007 14 .

The thermal stability of the MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO microextraction coating was evaluated by conditioning the coated capillary stepwise at higher temperatures and performing extractions on the capillary after every conditioning step. The MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO capillary was thermally conditioned stepwise for 1 h each at 280 C. 290 C. 300 C. 310 C. 320 C. 330 C. 340 C. and 350 C. in a GC oven purging the capillary with helium 1 mL min . The GC peak areas of the extracted analytes decanol and hexanophenone remained practically constant in this conditioning process until 330 C. A slight drop in GC peak area for the analytes was observed at conditioning temperatures exceeding 330 C. seen in indicating that the coating was stable at least up to 330 C. The reduction in GC peak area can be attributed to a change in the extraction performance of the BMPO polymer due to the onset of thermal degradation. BMPO is a relatively low molecular weight 500 900 g mol polyalkylene oxide material that demonstrated this remarkable thermal stability when used in the IL mediated sol gel. By comparison conventionally prepared coatings for a polyalkylene oxide e.g. PEG Ucon etc. of similar molecular weight is unlikely to exceed 200 250 C. Castello . D Amato J. Chromatogr. 90 1974 291 . The excellent thermal stability is due to the strong chemical bonding between the MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coating and the inner walls of the fused silica capillary.

The sol gel coating s extraction ability was investigated using nonpolar PAHs moderately polar aliphatic aldehydes and aromatic ketones seen in Table 5 and polar aliphatic alcohols aromatic amines phenols and free fatty acids seen in Table 6 test solutes. For all of the studied analytes run to run GC peak area relative standard deviation RDS values were determined to evaluate the repeatability of CME with the MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coating. GC peak area RSD values ranged from 0.4 to 5.7 for the nonpolar moderately polar compounds. The RSD values ranged from 0.3 to 6.7 for the polar analytes. These reasonably small RSD values translate into excellent repeatability in CME performance of the MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coating for the classes of compounds investigated. This coating provided ng L detection limits for all the analytes polar nonpolar and moderately polar. Furthermore the sol gel coating was solvent resistant since it was used in all extraction experiments after it had been rinsed with organic solvents.

Capillary to capillary RSD values in GC peak areas of extracted analytes which is a measure of reproducibility of the coating procedure was determined by obtaining GC peak area values for decanol hexanophonone and phenanthrene extracted on three individually prepared MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO microextraction capillaries. The capillary to capillary GC peak areas obtained provided RDS values of 7.2 for decanol 8.6 for hexanophenone and 3.9 for phenanthrene. These RSD values are indicative of acceptable reproducibility of the used sol gel coating procedure.

IL mediated sol gel PDMS and BMPO coatings were developed for use as immobilized sorbents in capillary microextraction. Ionic liquid mediated sol gel PDMS coatings provided consistent performance in CME GC analysis run to run peak area RSD values of 4.2 5.0 compared with sol gel PDMS coatings prepared without ionic liquid 2.8 14.1 . PDMS and BMPO IL mediated sol gel coatings also provided lower detection limits compared to analogous sol gel coatings prepared without IL. Scanning electron microscopy results suggest that ILs can provide a porous morphology of sol gel extraction media when it is incorporated in the sol gel coating solution.

The MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coating provided superior preconcentration performance than TTPT mediated sol gel BMPO coating. SEM investigations revealed that the use of MOIC in the sol gel system resulted in a more porous morphology responsible for a more efficient extraction performance. The MOIC mediated sol gel BMPO coating provided consistent extraction results in CME GC analysis run to run peak area RSD values ranged from 0.3 to 6.7 for nonpolar and polar analytes.

Enhancement of porosity alone was not enough to provide effective extraction of analytes. Thus careful choice of the polymer and precursor with comparable sol gel reactivity must be made when designing an IL mediated sol gel sorbent in order to ensure that the created sol gel coating inherently possesses the desired sorbent characteristics. IL mediated sol gel materials hold great potential for being widely used as sorbents and stationary phases in separation science.

In the preceding specification all documents acts or information disclosed does not constitute an admission that the document act or information of any combination thereof was publicly available known to the public part of the general knowledge in the art or was known to be relevant to solve any problem at the time of priority.

The disclosure of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

While there has been described and illustrated specific embodiments from the foregoing description it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications are possible without deviating from the broad spirit and principle of the present invention. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

