---

title: Network elements, wireless communication system and methods therefor
abstract: A method and apparatus for periodically assigning new, unique Location Area Codes to each cell comprising a femto-cell network (-) permits a user equipment to perform a re-registration attempt with the same cell after a short period of time has elapsed in cases where an initial attempt to register was rejected. The invention is particularly useful for location presence services as a location presence signal may be generated every time a User Equipment () attempts to register on a cell () whether or not the attempt was successful.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420519&OS=09420519&RS=09420519
owner: IP.Acccess Limited
number: 09420519
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20131004
---
The field of this invention relates to network elements a wireless communication system and methods for operating a cellular communication system and has particular applicability to providing a location presence service in such a system.

Wireless communication systems such as the 3Generation 3G of mobile telephone standards and technology are well known. An example of such 3G standards and technology is the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS developed by the 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP www.3gpp.org . The 3generation of wireless communications has generally been developed to support macro cell mobile phone communications. Such macro cells utilize high power base stations NodeBs in 3GPP parlance to communicate with wireless communication units within a relatively large geographical coverage area. Typically wireless communication units or User Equipment UEs as they are often referred to in 3G parlance communicate with a Core Network CN of the 3G wireless communication system via a Radio Network Subsystem RNS . A wireless communication system typically comprises a plurality of radio network subsystems each radio network subsystem comprising one or more cells to which UEs may attach and thereby connect to the network. Each macro cellular RNS further comprises a controller in a form of a Radio Network Controller RNC operably coupled to the one or more Node Bs via a so called Tub interface.

The second generation wireless communication system 2G also known as GSM is a well established cellular wireless communications technology whereby base transceiver stations equivalent to the Node B s of the 3G system and mobile stations user equipment can transmit and receive voice and packet data. Several base transceiver stations are controlled by a Base Station Controller BSC equivalent to the RNC of 3G systems.

Communications systems and networks are developing towards a broadband and mobile system. The 3rd Generation Partnership Project has proposed a Long Term Evolution LTE solution namely an Evolved Universal Mobile Telecommunication System Territorial Radio Access Network E UTRAN for a mobile access network and a System Architecture Evolution SAE solution namely an Evolved Packet Core EPC for a mobile core network. An evolved packet system EPS network provides only packet switching PS domain data access so voice services are provided by a 2G or 3G Radio Access Network RAN and circuit switched CS domain network. User Equipment UE can access a CS domain core network through a 2G 3GRAN such as the Enhanced Data Rate for GSM Evolution EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN or a Universal Mobile Telecommunication System Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN and access the EPC through the E UTRAN. Some User Equipments have the capability to communicate with networks of differing radio access technologies. For example a user equipment may be capable of operating within a UTRAN and within an E UTRAN.

Lower power and therefore smaller coverage area cells are a recent development within the field of wireless cellular communication systems. Such small cells are effectively communication coverage areas supported by low power base stations. The terms picocell and femtocell are often used to mean a cell with a small coverage area with the term femtocell being more commonly used with reference to residential small cells. Small cells are often deployed with minimum RF radio frequency planning and those operating in consumers homes are often installed in an ad hoc fashion. The low power base stations which support small cells are referred to as Access Points AP s with the term Home Node B HNB or Evolved Home Node B eHNB defined by 3GPP to identify femtocell Access Points. Each small cell is supported by a single Access Point. These small cells are intended to augment the wide area macro network and support communications to multiple User Equipment devices in a restricted for example indoor environment. Such small cells are intended to be able to be deployed underneath a macrocell in a multi layer structure for example in order to support communications to UEs in a restricted area such as a shopping mall for example. An additional benefit of small cells is that they can offload traffic from the macro network thereby freeing up valuable macro network resources . One or more Access Points are linked to a Core Network through an Access Controller. An Access Controller which links one or more HNB s to the Core Network is known as a Home Node B Gateway HNB GW . An HNB provides a radio access network connectivity to a user equipment UE using the so called Iuh interface to a HNB GW.

Typical applications for such Access Points include by way of example residential and commercial locations communication hotspots etc. whereby Access Points can be connected to a core network via for example the Internet using a broadband connection or the like. In this manner small cells can be provided in a simple scalable deployment in specific in building locations where for example network congestion or poor coverage at the macro cell level may be problematic.

Thus an AP is a scalable multi channel two way communication device that may be provided within say residential and commercial e.g. office locations hotspots etc to extend or improve upon network coverage within those locations. Although there are no standard criteria for the functional components of an AP an example of a typical AP for use within a 3GPP 3G system may comprise Node B functionality and some aspects of Radio Network Controller RNC functionality as specified in 3GPP TS 25.467. Herein the term small cell means any cell having a small coverage area and includes picocells and femtocells. 

Often in a small cell network an Access Point Management System AMS is provided which may communicate with each Access Point and or the Access Controller HNB GW . This management system is typically configured to manage a large number of Access Points for example monitoring software upgrades failure management and informing each Access Point of its assigned Location Area Code or Routing Area Code . A Location Area Code LAC is a specific field in a Local Area Identifier which uniquely distinguishes one Location Area from others which are serviced by the same Mobile Switching Centre MSC of the Core Network. Some small cell systems employ a two tiered LAC allocation scheme in order to maximize the number of supported small cells with distinct LAC s yet make the entire small cell system transparent to the core network see for example US A 20080207170 .

When a User Equipment UE camps on to a particular HNB for example the HNB attempts to register the UE with the HNB GW by sending a HNBAP UE register request message. The message can contain a UE identity and will be acknowledged with an accepted message if the registration is successful. The HNB broadcasts its assigned LAC which the UE detects and subsequently acknowledges that it is now operating in in that Location Area by sending a Location Update message. The HNB may monitor the UE via the periodic location updates. If a number of location updates are missed the HNB assumes that the UE is no longer camped on and has left the HNB s area of coverage. The HNB then informs the HNB GW of this occurrence by sending a HNBAP deregister message.

A current industry model is to implement a GSMA one API on one of three places viz. on the User Equipment for handset applications or on the small cell for local applications or on the application Gateway for external third party access . The GSMA one API is an application programming interface which has been developed by the GSM Global System for Mobile Communications Association. It is intended to be a web service interface. An application developed with one API can obtain information across network operators that support it. It is intended for operation on servers and mobile devices and the first API s to be implemented will be for messaging and location functions. Specifically version 1 requires location presence capability and the ability to send and receive short message services SMS and multimedia messaging services MMS through the application Gateway using the GSMA one API.

 Presence services in general permit an individual and equipment which he she uses for communication to share information on the state of the individual and that equipment. Such information can include whether the individual and his communication equipment are currently able to communicate with others or are engaged on a video call for example. Presence can also include information relating to the location of a user s communication equipment. A presence server may be provided in such instances for on detection that a particular UE has entered a particular location enabling applications that subscribe to a presence service to take some form of action. For example location information can be very useful to retailers and advertisers who may wish to communicate with shoppers who are known to be in a certain location at a certain time a shopping mall for example.

Some current Location Presence services are based on the use of a localised Identity Request sent by an Access Point to a UE to obtain its IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identifier . This was originally proposed to support a form of access control. If the Access Point is prepared to offer normal telecommunications services then the UE is allowed to register on the small cell. Alternatively the IMSI may be captured from the so called Common ID sent by the Core network. In each case an Access Point must have a different LAC RAC from the surrounding coverage ie. other small cells or overlapping macrocell in order to prompt a Registration attempt when camping on. A registration attempt may be used to prompt a location presence trigger. See Applicant s co pending Application GB 1209224.3 .

In summary current Location Presence services provide detection of a permitted user camping on an Access Point or HNB . At this point a Registration will also be sent to the Core Network. This covers the scenarios of open access cells where all users are accepted for service and the permitted user group of a closed access HNB.

In some circumstances e.g. for traffic capacity reasons it may be desirable for an AP to reject the UE so that it returns to the macro network. Two commonly understood methods for achieving this are LU Location Update Reject or more generally Registration Reject or Authentication Failure . The latter method is not generally preferred as behavior varies across UEs and different 3GPP releases. A UE may also be rejected if it is not authorized to receive services from a particular Access Point ie. where there is Closed Access Control. Typically the UE holds a reject list of LAC s from which it has been rejected. The capacity of this list is typically 10 LAC s. These stored LAC s are discarded on a cyclic first in first out basis when the list reaches full capacity.

A further feature of the registration reject method is that a rejected UE is configured to delay trying to access an Access Point having an LAC which is recorded in the reject list for a lengthy period typically 12 24 hours or the UE power cycle . This is generally an advantage for Closed Access Control but a disadvantage for a Location Presence service as the UE will be prevented from re accessing the same cell or from accessing another cell using the same LAC for a long period. Therefore using known techniques only UE s which are accepted on a cell and offered services can repeatedly re register on a cell with the same LAC and so be detected again by a location presence service.

Aspects of the invention provide network elements a wireless communication system and methods therefor as described in the appended claims.

According to a first aspect of invention there is provided a method for operating a cellular communication system comprising a plurality of neighbouring small cells each of said plurality of neighbouring small cells supporting communications between a wireless communication unit and a core network the method comprising assigning an initial unique area code to each small cell and periodically assigning a new unique area code to each small cell.

In one embodiment the area codes are changed after expiry of a configurable pre determined time interval.

In another embodiment the area codes are changed after variable time intervals which may be determined based on system usage.

In a preferred embodiment the method may be modified in order to provide a location presence service in the cellular communication system by performing the further step of receiving at a first of said small cells a request for registration of a wireless communication unit with the core network said request including an identity of the wireless communication unit and on receipt of the request notifying a location presence server of the presence of the wireless communication unit in the cell and of the identity of the wireless communication unit.

The method may also include notifying the location presence server when the wireless communication unit has left the coverage area of a cell.

An Iu area code may also be assigned to an Access Controller which controls each Access Point associated with each small cell.

The identity of the wireless communication unit may comprise its IMSI international mobile subscriber Identifier .

The wireless communication unit s request for registration may be accepted or rejected. In either case a location presence notification is generated and location presence server is notified.

In a preferred embodiment all registration requests are rejected. Then by regularly changing area codes for each small cell a rejected UE will be able to attempt to re access an Access Point from which it has previously been rejected. This permits more location presence service detections within a given time interval.

A wireless communication unit s request for registration may be accepted. In such cases the area code currently assigned to the small cell receiving the request may be replaced with an Iu area code for onward transmission to the core network. Further accepted requests for registration from the wireless communication unit as it moves between small cells may be handled locally by the small cell network in order to minimise traffic to and from the core network. A method for such local handling of registrations is described in Applicant s co pending application GB 1219180.5.

If there are many wireless communication units receiving services within the network of small cells at any one time the changes to the area codes may be delayed until fewer or no wireless communication units are receiving services so that the units in service are not forced to re register each time an area code is changed thereby increasing communications traffic loading.

As typically a UE holds only a limited sized list of Local Area Codes from which it has been rejected typically 10 the invention permits a large population of Access Points to be served by a relatively small number of LAC s.

According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for a cellular communication system the system comprising a plurality of neighbouring small cells each of said plurality of neighbouring small cells supporting communications between a wireless communication unit and a core network wherein the apparatus includes one or more network elements arranged to assign an initial unique area code to each small cell and to periodically assign a new unique area code to each small cell.

The apparatus may further include one or more network elements adapted to receive a request for registration of a wireless communication unit with a small cell said request including an identity of the wireless communication unit and to generate a location presence message including data relating to the location of the first cell and the identity of the wireless communication unit and a location presence server for receiving said location presence message and for storing said data.

In one example each small cell is served by an HNB which may receive a registration request and an IMSI from a UE. Since a registration attempt is in itself sufficient to provide location presence detection all UE s can be rejected from a cell and there is no need to offer telecommunications services through the HNB. Further the rejection process occurs entirely within the small cell HNB network ie. the Core Network is oblivious to the request and so there is no increase in Core Network signalling as a result of the location presence detection of a rejected UE.

Hence in a preferred embodiment the apparatus includes one or more network elements which are configured to reject the request for registration. This permits an Access Point to be provided with lower nominal capacity than is conventional. Further such an Access Point does not require the usual high bandwidth links to its Access Controller HNB GW for example as it will not need to provide any voice or data services.

Advantageously HNB s may be placed at locations where a location presence service is desired eg. different areas of a shopping mall or large retail store. Conventionally any UE registration access registration request results in a localised Identity Request being sent by the HNB to obtain the UE s IMSI. Receipt of this registration request and IMSI is used to generate a location presence notification.

According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a wireless communication system including the apparatus of the above aspects.

According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided tangible computer program product having an executable computer program code stored thereon for execution by a processor to perform a method in accordance with the above aspects.

The tangible computer program product may comprise at least one from a group consisting of a hard disk a CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device a Read Only Memory a Programmable Read Only Memory an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory an Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory and a Flash memory.

These and other aspects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from and elucidated with reference to the embodiments described hereinafter.

Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the present invention.

Before describing in detail embodiments that are in accordance with the present invention it should be observed that the embodiments reside primarily in combinations of method steps and apparatus components related to network elements wireless communication system and method therefor. Accordingly the apparatus components and method steps have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present invention so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the description herein.

In this document relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The inventive concept finds particular applicability in a cellular communication system that supports a number of overlapping communication coverage areas for example a communication system that comprises a combination of small cells and macro cells. Further the inventive concept finds applicability in a cellular communication system comprising more than one Radio Access Technology.

Those skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate that the specifics of the examples described are merely illustrative of some embodiments and that the teachings set forth herein are applicable in a variety of alternative settings. For example since the inventive concepts do not depend on any particular combination of radio access technologies it is envisaged that the inventive concepts can be applied to other combinations of RAT s although 3G systems are shown in the embodiments. As such other alternative implementations within cellular communication systems conforming to different standards are contemplated and are within the scope of the various teachings described.

Referring now to a plurality of neighboring small cells each served by an Access Point which in this example comprise Home Node B s HNB are clustered within a part of the coverage area of a macrocell . A further three isolated small cells served by HNB s and are also located within the coverage area of the macrocell and are distanced from one another and from the cluster of small cells The small cells and the macrocell all serve to support communications between a User Equipment and a Core Network via a single Mobile Switching Centre. The small cells may serve offices and or a large retail area such as a shopping mall. The area covered by the macrocell is assigned a Location Area Code LAC . The HNB s are assigned initial unique LAC s from 1 to 12 respectively and the HNB s are assigned initial unique LAC s . An Iu LAC is assigned to the HNB GW. So each HNB has a LAC which is different from its neighbours and also different from the macrocell LAC and also from the Iu LAC which represents the Iu link between the HNB GW and the Core Network . After a predetermined time period the LAC s of each of the small cells are changed to new unique values. In these new values are shown in parentheses and in respect of the HNB s the new assigned LACs are to and the HNB s are assigned new unique LAC s . The Location Area Codes assigned to the small cells are on the air OTA LAC s. A User Equipment may move in and out of the coverage areas of each HNB . A commercial enterprise not shown may be interested in knowing where the UE is at any particular time and also the UE s identity its IMSI for example so that it may send advertising material to the UE which relates to a retail outlet which may be in its vicinity at the time. By receiving a location presence message indicating that a particular UE has requested registration with a particular small cell and from knowledge of the geographical layout of the small cells an estimate of the general location of the UE location may be made.

The OTA LAC s of the HNBs are arranged so that as the UE moves from one small cell s coverage area to another it sees a different LAC. This prompts a registration request with the HNB serving the cell which the UE has just entered. This registration request is used to trigger a location presence notification message.

Referring now to an example of part of a 3G wireless communication system operating in accordance with embodiments of the invention is illustrated and indicated generally at and comprises a Node B which supports wireless communications in the macrocell . The Node B is connected with a radio network controller RNC which in turn is linked with a Core Network which includes a Mobile Switching Centre and other conventional network elements or subsystems not shown 

The plurality of HNB s represented in although only two are shown in for the sake of clarity are linked to the Mobile Switching Centre MSC through an Access Controller which in this example is a Home Node B Gateway HNB GW . An Access Point Management System AMS is connected to the HNB GW and each HNB. A presence server is also connected with the HNB GW . A User Equipment may roam in and out of the coverage areas of the node B or the HNB s and request access to the Core Network through any one of these nodes. The HNB GW provides Presence Indications to the Presence Server which offers a Presence API to presence based applications which may be subscribed to by a commercial enterprise.

The MSC of the Core Network routes services for both the small cell and macrocell networks of . A UE roaming between a coverage area of the macrocell network and the coverage areas of the small cell network will utilise the same MSC of the Core Network . The MSC is aware that the LAC for the area covered by the macrocell is LAC .

Initially the Core Network allocates a set of LAC s to the AMS . These are available for use as OTA LAC s and for at least one Iu LAC. The AMS then decides which of the allocated OTA LAC s to assign initially to each HNB . Each HNB is informed of its OTA LAC and of the Iu LAC. The AMS also decides which new LAC s to assign to each HNB and when to make this change. The AMS may be arranged to change the LAC s after a preset period of time. Alternatively the AMS may be configured with an algorithm for changing the LAC s at variable time periods depending on communications traffic patterns such as network loading or usage history.

The AMS is therefore configured to monitor the traffic on the small cell networks and also keeps a list identifying those UE s which are authorised to access each HNB .

The HNB GW is configured to generate a location presence notification message and send this to the presence server each time it receives a registration request from a UE via any one of the HNB s to which it is linked.

In an alternative embodiment the AMS generates the location presence notification message and sends it to the presence server on receiving a trigger from the HNB GW indicating that a UE has requested registration via one of the HNB s .

In either case the location presence notification message contains information relating to the identity of the UE eg. its IMSI and the identity of the HNB which received the initial request for registration. The cell identity may be its OTA LAC or some other identifier derived from this. The presence server may map an HNB identifier to a geographic location or some other identifier useful to presence applications.

An example of a method for providing a location presence service will now be described with reference to the simplified flow diagram of .

In a first example say that the UE moves into the coverage area of the HNB which serves one of a cluster of cells covering a large retail area. On entering the coverage area of HNB the UE will record the broadcast LAC and acknowledge that it is now operating within a new location area and initiate a Registration Request to the HNB by performing a location update.

At the UE responds by sending the HNB its IMSI which the HNB forwards with the location update to the HNB GW .

At a decision is taken as to whether to reject or accept the UE. In a preferred embodiment all UE s are rejected and no registration request is forwarded to the Core Network. However as the HNB GW has received a registration request and has the IMSI of the UE it is able at to generate a location presence notification to the presence server . Alternatively the AMS may check its authorisation list to see if a UE with the particular IMSI which the HNB GW has received is authorised to receive services from the particular HNB . In this example the AMS confirms that this particular UE is authorised. However the AMS is aware that the small cell network is currently heavily loaded and therefore decides to reject the UE which may respond by camping on to the macrocell instead . Hence the AMS sends an instruction to the HNB GW which in turn instructs the HNB to reject the UE .

However as the HNB GW has received a registration request and has the IMSI of the UE it is able at to generate a location presence notification to the presence server . Therefore even though the UE did not successfully register with the Core Network via HNB a commercial enterprise subscribing to the location presence service has still been informed that the UE is currently in the vicinity of HNB .

As the UE has been rejected from a cell having LAC the UE stores this LAC in its reject list. As is conventional the UE will not attempt to register on any cell having this LAC ie. 1 for a relatively long period of time typically 24 hours. However with the exception of HNB this drawback is overcome as the AMS has ensured that all LAC s in the small cell network are unique. In order to permit the UE to attempt to register with HNB again any time at the AMS assigns each HNB controlled by the HNB GW a new unique LAC. This change may be done periodically say every 10 minutes. Alternatively it may be done more or less frequently or at varying time intervals depending on network operating factors and network loading.

In a second example say that the UAE moves into the area of coverage of HNB having an initially assigned LAC of . As in the first example it sends a registration request to the HNB which in response requests the UE s IMSI. The IMSI is conveyed to the AMS via the HNB GW . Again in the preferred embodiment the UE is rejected at this point. However alternatively the AMS may again be configured to consult its authorisation list to discover in another example that this particular UE is not authorised to receive services from this particular HNB which in this example serves offices rather than a retail area. Therefore the UE is rejected and the LAC is stored in the UE s reject list. However once again the registration request triggers the generation of a location presence notification in the HNB GW . The notification is received by the presence server and may be used by a commercial enterprise subscribing to such a location presence service. When the AMS assigns a new LAC to the HNB the UE will be able to attempt registration again with this HNB.

Hence the invention permits an Access Point to act as a collector of User Equipments IMSI s for location presence services even if the Access Point does not actually provide a service for that particular User Equipment.

In cases where the UE is accepted by the HNB that it requests registration with the HNB GW follows the conventional procedures for enabling the UE to communicate with the Core Network and also sends a location presence notification to the presence server . The LAC sent to the Core Network with the registration request may be the LAC currently assigned to the HNB or it may be the Iu LAC which is substituted for the OTA LAC by the HNB GW prior to forwarding the registration request.

In an alternative embodiment the algorithm for determining when to make the changes to the LAC s is configured in the HNB GW rather than the AMS .

In another embodiment each HNB is provided with a list of LAC s that it may use and a time schedule for making the changes.

While the invention has been described with respect to LACs it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that some embodiments may perform a similar form of location presence service when the assigned area codes are Routing Area Codes rather than LAC s. This alternative of using Routing Area Codes is viable when a UE has an active data service and registers in the packet switched PS domain. In this case registrations are exchanged with an SGSN Serving GPRS general packet radio system Support Node rather than an MSC. In the case of combined registration for circuit switched and packet switched domains the registrations are exchanged with the SGSN.

The signal processing functionality of the embodiments of the invention particularly those functions performed by the HNB s . HNB GW and AMS may be achieved using computing systems or architectures known to those who are skilled in the relevant art. Computing systems such as a desktop laptop or notebook computer hand held computing device PDA cell phone palmtop etc. mainframe server client or any other type of special or general purpose computing device as may be desirable or appropriate for a given application or environment can be used. The computing system can include one or more processors which can be implemented using a general or special purpose processing engine such as for example a microprocessor microcontroller or other control module.

The computing system can also include a main memory such as random access memory RAM or other dynamic memory for storing information and instructions to be executed by a processor. Such a main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by the processor. The computing system may likewise include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device for storing static information and instructions for a processor.

The computing system may also include an information storage system which may include for example a media drive and a removable storage interface. The media drive may include a drive or other mechanism to support fixed or removable storage media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a compact disc CD or digital video drive DVD read or write drive R or RW or other removable or fixed media drive. Storage media may include for example a hard disk floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk CD or DVD or other fixed or removable medium that is read by and written to by media drive. The storage media may include a computer readable storage medium having particular computer software or data stored therein.

In alternative embodiments an information storage system may include other similar components for allowing computer programs or other instructions or data to be loaded into the computing system. Such components may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface such as a program cartridge and cartridge interface a removable memory for example a flash memory or other removable memory module and memory slot and other removable storage units and interfaces that allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computing system.

The computing system can also include a communications interface. Such a communications interface can be used to allow software and data to be transferred between a computing system and external devices. Examples of communications interfaces can include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet or other NIC card a communications port such as for example a universal serial bus USB port a PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via a communications interface are in the form of signals which can be electronic electromagnetic and optical or other signals capable of being received by a communications interface medium.

In this document the terms computer program product computer readable medium non transitory computer readable medium and the like may be used generally to refer to tangible media such as for example a memory storage device or storage unit. These and other forms of computer readable media may store one or more instructions for use by the processor comprising the computer system to cause the processor to perform specified operations. Such instructions generally referred to as computer program code which may be grouped in the form of computer programs or other groupings when executed enable the computing system to perform functions of embodiments of the present invention. Note that the code may directly cause a processor to perform specified operations be compiled to do so and or be combined with other software hardware and or firmware elements e.g. libraries for performing standard functions to do so.

In an embodiment where the elements are implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer readable medium and loaded into computing system using for example removable storage drive. A control module in this example software instructions or executable computer program code when executed by the processor in the computer system causes a processor to perform the functions of the invention as described herein.

Furthermore the inventive concept can be applied to any circuit for performing signal processing functionality within a network element. It is further envisaged that for example a semiconductor manufacturer may employ the inventive concept in a design of a stand alone device such as a microcontroller of a digital signal processor DSP or application specific integrated circuit ASIC and or any other sub system element.

It will be appreciated that for clarity purposes the above description has described embodiments of the invention with reference to a single processing logic. However the inventive concept may equally be implemented by way of a plurality of different functional units and processors to provide the signal processing functionality. Thus references to specific functional units are only to be seen as references to suitable means for providing the described functionality rather than indicative of a strict logical or physical structure or organisation.

Aspects of the invention may be implemented in any suitable form including hardware software firmware or any combination of these. The invention may optionally be implemented at least partly as computer software running on one or more data processors and or digital signal processors or configurable module components such as FPGA devices. Thus the elements and components of an embodiment of the invention may be physically functionally and logically implemented in any suitable way. Indeed the functionality may be implemented in a single unit in a plurality of units or as part of other functional units.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with some embodiments it is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein. Rather the scope of the present invention is limited only by the accompanying claims. Additionally although a feature may appear to be described in connection with particular embodiments one skilled in the art would recognize that various features of the described embodiments may be combined in accordance with the invention. In the claims the term comprising does not exclude the presence of other elements or steps.

Furthermore although individually listed a plurality of means elements or method steps may be implemented by for example a single unit or processor. Additionally although individual features may be included in different claims these may possibly be advantageously combined and the inclusion in different claims does not imply that a combination of features is not feasible and or advantageous. Also the inclusion of a feature in one category of claims does not imply a limitation to this category but rather indicates that the feature is equally applicable to other claim categories as appropriate.

Furthermore the order of features in the claims does not imply any specific order in which the features must be performed and in particular the order of individual steps in a method claim does not imply that the steps must be performed in this order. Rather the steps may be performed in any suitable order. In addition singular references do not exclude a plurality. Thus references to a an first second etc. do not preclude a plurality.

In the foregoing specification specific embodiments of the present invention have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention. The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. The invention is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.

