---

title: Interest forwarding for interactive client anonymity
abstract: In one embodiment, an intermediate node in a communication network receives a client interest with an indication of a client-requested reverse private path. The reverse private path is a label switched path toward a corresponding client with encrypted client information. In response to receiving the client interest, the intermediate node allocates a label for the reverse private path. The allocated label is mapped to a node from which the client interest is received. The intermediate node then forwards the client interest with the allocated label toward a server. In another embodiment, the server receives a client interest including a client-requested reverse private path from a particular intermediate node and determines a server interest. The allocated label for the client interest is inserted into the server interest which is forwarded toward the client via the particular intermediate node using the allocated label for the reverse private path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628400&OS=09628400&RS=09628400
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 09628400
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130724
---
The present disclosure relates generally to computer networks and more particularly to interest forwarding for interactive client anonymity.

Content centric networking CCN efficiently distributes information in a network using existing infrastructure to improve traffic speed in data transmission. Specifically in CCN a client interest message includes a request for data and the networking system relies on a dynamically created state along a path to route data back to a client. The data is transmitted based on the type of content instead of geographic location and the client identifying information need not be publicly routable because the data transmitted does not need to contain a source address thus preventing adversaries within the network from identifying the client based on the interest. However interactive applications such as voice over IP VoIP require two way communication between a server and the client where the server typically retrieves information from the client by issuing an interest towards the client to retrieve information. Current techniques require that this interest be routed by name towards the client thus exposing the identity of the client within the network.

According to one or more embodiments of the disclosure an intermediate node in a communication network receives a client interest with an indication of a client requested reverse private path. The reverse private path is a label switched path toward a corresponding client with encrypted client information. In response to receiving the client interest the intermediate node allocates a label for the reverse private path. The allocated label is mapped to a node from which the client interest is received. The intermediate node then forwards the client interest with the allocated label toward a server.

According to one or more additional embodiments of the disclosure a server receives a client interest for a client from a particular intermediate node. The client interest includes a client requested reverse private path and an allocated label from the particular intermediate node. The server then determines a server interest for the client and generates the server interest. The allocated label for the client interest is inserted into the server interest and then the server forwards the server interest toward the client via the particular intermediate node using the allocated label for the reverse private path.

A computer network is a geographically distributed collection of nodes interconnected by communication links and segments for transporting data between end nodes such as personal computers and workstations or other devices such as sensors etc. Many types of networks are available ranging from local area networks LANs to wide area networks WANs . LANs typically connect the nodes over dedicated private communications links located in the same general physical location such as a building or campus. WANs on the other hand typically connect geographically dispersed nodes over long distance communications links such as common carrier telephone lines optical lightpaths synchronous optical networks SONET or synchronous digital hierarchy SDH links. The internet is an example of a WAN that connects disparate networks throughout the world providing global communication between nodes on various networks. The nodes typically communicate over the network by exchanging discrete frames or packets of data according to predefined protocols such as the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP . In this context a protocol consists of a set of rules defining how the nodes interact with each other. Computer networks may be further interconnected by an intermediate network node such as a router to extend the effective size of each network.

Data packets may be exchanged among the network devices of the computer network over links using predefined network communication protocols such as certain known wired protocols wireless protocols or other protocols where appropriate. In this context a protocol consists of a set of rules defining how the devices interact with each other.

The memory comprises a plurality of storage locations that are addressable by the processor s and the network interfaces for storing software programs and data structures associated with the embodiments described herein. Note that certain devices may have limited memory or no memory e.g. no memory for storage other than for programs processes operating on the device and associated caches . The processor may comprise hardware elements or hardware logic adapted to execute the software programs and manipulate the data structures . An operating system portions of which are typically resident in memory and executed by the processor s functionally organizes the device by inter alia invoking operations in support of software processes and or services executing on the device. These software processes and or services may comprise routing process services and an illustrative interest forwarding process as described herein which may alternatively be located within individual network interfaces e.g. process .

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that other processor and memory types including various computer readable media may be used to store and execute program instructions pertaining to the techniques described herein. Also while the description illustrates various processes it is expressly contemplated that various processes may be embodied as modules configured to operate in accordance with the techniques herein e.g. according to the functionality of a similar process . Further while the processes have been shown separately those skilled in the art will appreciate that processes may be routines or modules within other processes.

Routing process services contain computer executable instructions executed by the processor to perform functions provided by one or more routing protocols as will be understood by those skilled in the art. These functions may be configured to manage a forwarding table a data structure containing e.g. data used to make forwarding decisions. In addition routing services in conjunction with interest forwarding process may perform functions related to conventional protocols for content centric networking CCN or similarly information centric networking ICN as will be understood by those skilled in the art.

In particular as noted above CCN or ICN routes and delivers requested interest data based on the content of the interest data and thus an interest requested by a client does not have to be retrieved from a specific location but can be retrieved at any device in the network e.g. the data does not have to be stored on a server . In particular in CCN or ICN a client sends out an interest packet client interest to register its interest in a particular bit of data. A first router receives that and forwards it to one or more other routers based on its routing table until the client interest reaches the appropriate server of the data who replies with a response generally the content .

As further noted above in CCN the networking system relies on a dynamically created state along a path during forwarding of the client interest to route the data content back to a client where client identifying information need not be publicly routable because the data transmitted does not need to contain a source address. However interactive applications such as voice over IP VoIP require two way communication between a server and the client. That is the servers sometimes need to retrieve information from the client by issuing an interest towards the client. However this server to client interest needs to be routed by name towards the client by intermediate routers which means that the identity of the client cannot be concealed from adversaries who can see the global routing table. Notably this is currently the only piece of identifying information in the interest which cannot be protected by encryption.

The techniques herein provide a method of receiving a client requested reverse private path that is a label switched path toward a corresponding client which allows the return interest in bidirectional applications to not include unencrypted client identifying information. Thus the client may remain anonymous in CCN and similarly in ICN and data may be transmitted between a source and a destination securely.

Specifically according to one or more embodiments of the disclosure as described in detail below an intermediate node in a communication network may receive a client interest with an indication of a client requested reverse private path. The reverse private path is a label switched path toward a corresponding client with encrypted client information. In response to receiving the client interest the intermediate node may allocate a label for the reverse private path. The allocated label is mapped to a node from which the client interest is received. The intermediate node may then forward the client interest with the allocated label toward a server. According to one or more additional embodiments of the disclosure the server may receive the client interest for a client from a particular intermediate node. If the server then determines a server interest for the client it may then generate a server interest with the allocated label for the client interest inserted therein thus forwarding the server interest toward the client via the particular intermediate node based on the allocated label i.e. on the reverse private path .

Illustratively the techniques described herein may be performed by hardware software and or firmware such as in accordance with the interest forwarding process which may contain computer executable instructions executed by the processor s or independent processor of interfaces to perform functions relating to the techniques described herein e.g. in conjunction with routing process . For example the techniques herein may be treated as extensions to conventional protocols and may be processed by similar components understood in the art that execute those protocols accordingly.

Operationally the techniques herein involve using dynamic path creation in a network to allow a server to send interests toward a client without including client identifying information. Specifically each intermediate node that forwards a client interest toward the server may allocate a label to the interest and the label may be mapped to a node from which the interest was received. As a result a server interest in reverse may be forwarded toward the client without including client identifying information thus providing a more secure method of transmitting client data.

In one embodiment as illustrated in an intermediate node in a communication network may receive a client interest from a client that includes an indication of a client requested reverse private path e.g. a flag code type etc. . As described below the requested reverse private path creates a label switched path toward the requesting client allowing for encrypted client identifying information. Specifically in response to receiving the client interest an intermediate node may allocate a label e.g. label for the reverse private path. Notably the label may be any identifying tag information such as a label in accordance with multi protocol label switching MPLS label switched paths LSPs or otherwise. Notably all properties of conventional MPLS label allocation e.g. global per interface etc. may be applied to the label switching scheme herein. For instance the label allocated by the intermediate node may be mapped to a node from which the client interest is received including the client itself such that when receiving a message at that intermediate node the label within the message directs the intermediate node to forward the message to that mapped node accordingly.

For instance when a next hop node or when previous intermediate node receives the interest with the allocated label e.g. label the next hop node may allocate a new label e.g. labelor labelwhen is the next hop node to the interest that may be mapped to the intermediate node from which the client interest was received. Each next hop node along a route toward a server may allocate a new label to the interest. That is the intermediate node may be a previous intermediate node e.g. a node that has sent an interest to a next hop node that includes an allocated label from the previous intermediate node. Said differently a first hop router receives the client interest allocates a local label which results in a disposition of packets sent towards the client and includes that label in the interest forwarded upstream. Intermediate routers on the way toward the server perform the same action attaching a received label to the out face of the packet in transit allocating a local label and replacing the old label with the locally allocated label in the client interest when forwarded upstream.

Note that in one embodiment the label may automatically expire when the label remains unused for a predetermined amount of time e.g. 2 minutes of non use . The allocated label may also vary for different client interests from the client thus preventing adversaries in the network from recognizing a pattern and drawing a correlation with the traffic pattern from which the client identity may be determined. Thus to prevent a pattern from forming the intermediate nodes may allocate new labels for different client interests from the same client and allocate a random life span to the labels.

Furthermore as shown in once the server has received the interest which includes a client requested reverse private path from a particular intermediate node e.g. via the intermediate nodes e.g. and the server may store the allocated label from the particular intermediate node e.g. label . According to the techniques herein therefore should the server determine that it has a server interest for the client the server may generate that server interest and insert the allocated label e.g. label into the server interest and forwards the server interest toward the client via the mapped particular intermediate node e.g. using the allocated label of the server interest. In other words the server can now issue interests towards the client by simply encapsulating those interests with a transport label where the intermediate routers will be able to direct the interest towards the client without looking at the name and the server can encrypt all identifying information in the interest packet including the name . Thus the intermediate nodes may forward the server interest toward the client on a reverse private path without identifying the client such that adversaries in the network can no longer identify the client based on identifying information e.g. client name and location .

In another embodiment the client may select a particular label that is a unique or large pseudo random number label and include the label in the interest perhaps for this purpose or reused for another purpose . The intermediate node may receive this client interest from the client that includes the indication of a client requested reverse private path. In response to receiving the client interest the intermediate node may use the unique or pseudo random number to be mapped to a node from which the client interest is received such that when receiving a message at that intermediate node the label within the message directs the intermediate node to forward the message to that mapped node accordingly. The intermediate node may forward the same label label in the interest to the next hop node or . When the next hop node or receives the interest with the client originated unique or large pseudo random label label the next hop may forward the interest using the same unique label label . In other words rather than allocating a new label at each hop each next hop node along a route toward the server may forward the interest with the same allocated unique or large pseudo random label label .

In yet another embodiment as shown in the client may forward an interest with an indication of a client requested reverse private path toward a first server via intermediate nodes using interest forwarding as described in the above configuration. In this embodiment the first server may then receive a server interest from a second server and the first server may insert the allocated label from the particular intermediate node to the server interest received from the second server . The server interest may then be forwarded back toward the client via the particular intermediate node based on the allocated label. In other words though the first server may receive the initial client interest and hence the established reverse private path is from the first server to the client if a second server collaborates with the first server and wants to send a server interest toward that client the second server may use the reverse private path to the client by sending its server interest via the first server accordingly.

In particular illustrates an example simplified procedure for transmitting a server interest toward a client based on an allocated label in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein from the perspective of a server. The illustrative procedure may start at step and continues to step where as described in more detailed above a server may receive a client interest for a client from a particular node. The client interest may include a client requested reverse private path and an allocated label from the particular intermediate node. In step the server may determine it has a server interest for the client and may generate in step the server interest. In addition in step the allocated label for the client interest may be inserted into the server interest. The server interest may then be forwarded in step toward the client via the particular intermediate node using the allocated label and the procedure may illustratively end in step .

It should be noted that while certain steps within procedures may be optional as described above the steps shown in are merely examples for illustration and certain other steps may be included or excluded as desired. Further while a particular order of the steps is shown this ordering is merely illustrative and any suitable arrangement of the steps may be utilized without departing from the scope of the embodiments herein. Moreover while procedures are described separately certain steps from each procedure may be incorporated into each other procedure and the procedures are not meant to be mutually exclusive.

The techniques described herein therefore provide for transmitting interests with encrypted client identifying information to prevent the identity of the client from being revealed to adversaries in the network via a global routing table. Specifically the techniques herein may be applied to representational state transfer RESTful as well as bidirectional client server applications e.g. VoIP and traditional fetch only client server applications. In addition the intermediate devices in the network may each assign new labels to an interest thus preventing adversaries in the network from following the path of an interest and identifying the client and server addresses. Notably the techniques herein are straightforward to implement for any type of CCN ICN forwarding strategy and can be implemented on routers efficiently offering performance improvements in forwarding even if no anonymization is required. For instance the techniques herein provide for transmission of labeled interests which may provide faster data transmission than transmission of traditional ICN packets.

While there have been shown and described illustrative embodiments that provide for transmission of interests using label switched paths it is to be understood that various other adaptations and modifications may be made within the spirit and scope of the embodiments herein. For example the embodiments have been shown and described herein with CCN and ICN types of networking. However the embodiments in their broader sense are not as limited and may in fact be used with other types of networking.

The foregoing description has been directed to specific embodiments. It will be apparent however that other variations and modifications may be made to the described embodiments with the attainment of some or all of their advantages. For instance it is expressly contemplated that the components and or elements described herein can be implemented as software being stored on a tangible non transitory computer readable medium e.g. disks CDs RAM EEPROM etc. having program instructions executing on a computer hardware firmware or a combination thereof. Accordingly this description is to be taken only by way of example and not to otherwise limit the scope of the embodiments herein. Therefore it is the object of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of the embodiments herein.

