---

title: Lead-free piezoelectric ceramic films and a method for making thereof
abstract: This invention relates to a method of making lead-free piezoelectric ceramic films. Specifically, the invention is directed to a method for fabricating lead-free piezoelectric free standing films having enhanced piezoelectric properties. The films may be used for a number of applications including incorporation in microelectronic devices such as energy harvesting devices and sensor technologies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08715575&OS=08715575&RS=08715575
owner: Drexel University
number: 08715575
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130626
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. R01 EB000720 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to lead free piezoelectric ceramic films and a method of making them. Specifically the invention may be particularly beneficial for use in microelectronic devices such as energy harvesting devices and sensor technologies.

Due to their lead content current lead based piezoelectric materials and devices are highly toxic. Alternative lead free piezoelectric materials however typically have inadequately low piezoelectric coefficients and thus require complex and expensive methods to provide enhanced piezoelectric activity in order to make them useful. Generally such methods involve one or more of texturing the material to align the grains seeding of plate like seeds within the green bodies or complex sintering schemes.

Among the lead free piezoelectric materials sodium potassium niobate NaK NbO NKN offers a high Curie temperature T 420 C. and a relatively high piezoelectric coefficient d 80 160 pC N d 32 49 pC N See R. E. Jaeger and L. Egerton Hot Pressing of Potassium Sodium Niobates 45 209 1962 H. Birol D. Damjanovic and N. Setter Preparation and Characterization of KNa NbOCeramics 26 861 2006 . To further increase the piezoelectric coefficient scientists have experimented with various methods for processing solid solutions of NKN with a tetragonal phase inducing component such as LiNbO LN and LiTaO LT . By cold isostatic pressing CIP this mixture before sintering the dcoefficient may be increased to about 200 pC N at the morphotropic phase boundary MPB See Y. Guo et al. Phase Transitional Behavior and Piezoelectric Properties of NaK NbO LiNbOCeramics 85 4121 2004 Y. Guo et al. NaK NbO LiTaOLead free Piezoelectric Ceramics 59 241 2005 Mixing NKN LN LT and antimony and using a texturing technique the piezoelectric coefficient may further be increased wherein d 416 pC N and d 152 pC N See Y. Saito H. et al. Lead free Piezoceramics 432 84 2004 . To date 416 pC N is the best dcoefficient of all lead free piezoelectric ceramics which is comparable with the dcoefficient of dominant lead based piezoelectric materials such as lead zirconate titanate PZT . However the methods required to obtain these desirable piezoelectric coefficients are too complex and expensive and consequentially not suitable for commercialization.

Therefore there exists a need to develop alternative lead free piezoelectric materials more specifically free standing lead free piezoelectric films having enhanced piezoelectric coefficients.

The invention is directed to a lead free piezoelectric material having enhanced piezoelectric properties and a method for making it.

In one aspect the invention is a method for making a lead free piezoelectric material by formulating a novel precursor from lead free compounds producing a precursor coated lead free powder mixture and milling and sintering said powder mixture.

In another aspect the invention is directed to a material having free standing film geometry wherein said film is substantially lead free and wherein said film has a piezoelectric coefficient dof at least about 1600 pm V.

comprising a non piezoelectric layer a lead free piezoelectric layer at least one conducting element and optionally a receptor capable of binding a molecule or compound wherein the lead free piezoelectric layer has a piezoelectric coefficient dof at least about 1600 pm V.

The present invention is directed to free standing lead free piezoelectric films having enhanced piezoelectric coefficients and a method for making them. The ability of the lead free piezoelectric materials to retain in plane polarization even after poling and to increase the population of domains that can be switched by an applied electric field controls their piezoelectric properties.

In one aspect the present invention provides a novel precursor coating technique for making free standing lead free piezoelectric films having superior piezoelectric properties. The precursor may be fabricated from lead free powders which may be prepared by coating and subsequently processed using traditional tape casting techniques such as that disclosed in Huidong Li Wan. Y. Shih and Wei Heng. Shih Effect of Antimony Concentration on the Crystalline Structure Dielectric and Piezoelectric Properties of Na0.5K0.5 0.945Li0.055Nb1 xSbxO3 Solid Solutions vol. 90 no. 10 Aug. 2 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In an exemplary embodiment the tape casting process may involve creating a slurry which may include the lead free powder dopants organic solvents binders plasticizers and deflocculants and combinations thereof filtering the slurry to remove undesirable or foreign particles de airing the slurry and casting the slurry by using a doctor blade regulate the formation of a thin film layer commonly known as green tape.

The precursor may be fabricated by dissolving lead free compounds in a liquid and adding a dopant to form a precursor suspension. The precursor suspension may be doped with piezoelectric property enhancing dopants such as SbOparticles any Sb Sr Ba Bi V containing precursors compound or particle or mixtures thereof to create a precursor suspension that will result in sintered bodies with enhanced piezoelectric properties. Preferably the precursor suspension is doped with a compound to such that the resultant sintered bodies contain about 3 to about 6 Sb more preferably about 4 to about 6 Sb. Optionally the precursor may be doped with any additional desirable dopants such as particles or precursors that would enhance the piezoelectric material or mechanical properties of the resultant material. In an exemplary embodiment lead free compounds NaNO Alfa Aesar 99 and KNO Alfa Aesar 99 are dissolved in ethylene glycol at about 90 C. Li 2 4 pentanedionate Alfa Aesar 98 is then added to produce a clear solution to which NbOparticles Alfa Aesar 99.9 may be added to form a precursor suspension. In another exemplary embodiment the precursor suspension is formulated from lead free compounds niobium oxide titanium oxide particles and or mixtures thereof. The precursor suspension may then be subsequently ultrasonicated to break up the formation of any agglomerates and then dried to obtain the precursor coated lead free powder mixture. This novel coated precursor powder mixture facilitates sintering and enables the production of free standing films which can be easily incorporated into microelectronic devices.

The coated precursor powder mixture may be calcined and ball milled using any suitable method. The coated precursor powder may subsequently be mixed with dispersing resins plasticizers other desirable additives and or mixtures thereof prior to being subject to further ball milling de airing casting i.e. tape casting and sintering using any suitable method. In a preferred embodiment sintering may be carried out in crucibles sealed by packing powder having the same composition as the resulting lead free piezoelectric film. This fabrication method is robust and may be readily applied to the formation of any lead free piezoelectric material such as NaK LiNbSbO hereinafter Sb NKNLN Sb NaK NbO LiTaO hereinafter Sb NKNLT Sr NaK NbO LiTaO Sr NKNLN Sr NaK NbO LiTaO Sr NKNLT SbSr NaK NbO LiTaO SrSb NKNLN SrSb NaK NbO LiTaO SbSr NKNLT solid solutions with BiK TiO BiNa TiO Ba ZrTi O BaTiO hereinafter BT BiK TiO hereinafter BKT BiNa TiO hereinafter BNT Ba ZrTi O hereinafter BZT Bi ZnTi O hereinafter BiZT NaK NbO hereinafter NKN BiScO PbTiOBaTiO BiK TiO hereinafter BKBT BiNa TiO BiK TiO hereinafter BNKT BiNa TiO BaTiO hereinafter BNBT BiNa TiO Ba ZrTi O hereinafter BNBZT and BiNa TiO BaTiO BiK TiO hereinafter BNBK .

The resulting lead free piezoelectric material may be fabricated in any form preferably having free standing film geometry. The lead free piezoelectric material may have enhanced piezoelectric characteristics such as high piezoelectric coefficients. Typically the piezoelectric performance of a polycrystalline piezoelectric material excited by an applied electric field is mainly dictated by domain wall motion i.e. domain switching in the material. Whereas the switching ability of ferroelectric domains is severely inhibited in silicon substrate based thin films the free standing film geometry of the lead free piezoelectric material of the present invention has enhanced piezoelectric properties because it eliminates the clamping effect caused by the substrate thereby enabling the domain wall to switch much more readily under an electric field. Also the strong depolarization field induced by the film geometry causes the ferroelectric domains of the lead free piezoelectric material to lie down in the planar direction thereby facilitating domain switching upon application of a sufficiently large electric field. Further the small numbers of grains i.e. large grain size in the thickness direction gives significantly less grain boundary and facilitates penetration of an applied electric field both of which promote domain wall motion.

In an exemplary embodiment the free standing lead free piezoelectric film has a large piezoelectric coefficient dof about 200 to about 2000 pm V more preferably about 1500 pm V to about 1800 pm V and most preferably about at least 1600 pm V to about 1700 pm V at an applied electric field of about 8 kV cm. In an exemplary embodiment the lead free piezoelectric free standing films has large piezoelectric coefficients dand or dat 8 kV cm and may be fabricated to have a thickness ranging on the level of a few microns to hundreds of microns. Preferably the thickness of the film is about 4 m to about 100 m.

The method of the present invention is advantageous in that it is capable of producing a non toxic lead free piezoelectric material having a large piezoelectric coefficient using a simple and inexpensive process which would enable manufacturing for mass production. The method is novel in that it only requires coating a precursor and subsequent sintering of the precursor powder compact.

The non toxic lead free piezoelectric material of the present invention has numerous applications. Specifically since it may be easily incorporated into any microelectronic devices such as micro electro mechanical systems MEMS devices it may be particularly useful in the microelectronics industry. If driven by an electric field the material may be stacked to multiply the output energy. The large piezoelectric coefficient and high sensitivity of the material is also beneficial for sensor technologies as well as energy harvesting applications. It is envisioned that the lead free piezoelectric film of the present invention may be used to as the piezoelectric layers of a mechanical energy harvesting device or a microelectronic sensor. Furthermore the non toxic lead free piezoelectric material of the present invention may be used as a substitute for any piezoelectric material in any application or in any piezoelectric commercial product. It is believed that the non toxic lead free piezoelectric material will facilitate the compliance of piezoelectric commercial products with health and safety regulations such as RoHS.

In an exemplary application the lead free piezoelectric material may be used to fabricate a piezoelectric microcantilever sensor PEMS . PEMS are biological and chemical sensors that may be used for biological or chemical detection using an electrical sensing means. Receptors may be coated on the surface of the PEMS to bind molecules of interest. Binding of the target molecules to immobilized receptors on the PEMS surface shifts the mechanical resonance frequency of the device. By monitoring resonance frequency shifts the PEMS is capable of rapid label free in situ quantitative detection of organic compounds or molecules including pathogens antigens and proteins in a small volume solution e.g. 100 l or in a cell culture using simple all electrical measurements. In a preferred embodiment the PEMS is capable of electric actuation and detection and may also be constructed as an array for simultaneous monitoring of multiple target compounds or molecules.

PEMS having a lead free piezoelectric layer may be particularly promising for the detection of bioterrorism agents. Antibody receptors specific to at least one bioterrorism agent may be bound to an electrode and used to detect the presence of a bioterrorism antigen. In addition to identifying the existence of a bioterrorism agent it may also be used to quantify the concentration of the agent.

Additionally PEMS having a lead free piezoelectric layer may be useful in the health sciences as a diagnostic instrument. It may be used as a means for early detection of cancers and other diseases. It may also be used to monitor the progress of the disease throughout treatment. The PEMS may be incorporated in a portable device and used as a noninvasive means for testing blood and other bodily fluids for various pathogens infectious agents and other markers indicative of disease.

Specifically it is envisioned that the lead free piezoelectric layer may be incorporated in a PEMS that may be used for in vivo tissue elasticity imaging applications including cancer detection such as breast cancer detection location and differentiation as well as skin elasticity imaging.

Such PEMS may also be particularly applicable for the food science and food manufacturing industry. PEMS may be used as a diagnostic instrument for detecting pathogens or other disease agents present in food supplies and prepared or processed foods. Additionally it may also be useful in manufacturing plants and food service industries as a means of intermittently checking food products during different phases of food preparations thereby preventing contamination and the spread of bacterial or viral diseases such as and

Conductive elements may be any element capable of conducting an electrical signal from the piezoelectric layer to a device for detecting that signal. In a preferred embodiment conductive elements and are electrodes which may be constructed from any conductive material. Preferably the first electrode is constructed from Au Cr or Pt Ti and subsequently patterned in several regions. The second electrode is preferably constructed from Pt TiOon SiOor Pt Ti on a metal substrate or non piezoelectric layer and subsequently patterned as well.

In order to maintain functionality in solution by preventing conduction it may be useful to electrically separate or buffer conductive element and second conductive element . Conductive element is patterned slightly smaller than the piezoelectric layer to ensure complete insulation of the edges and corners thereof. Any electrically insulating layer may be used as a coating to achieve electrical separation or buffering.

In one embodiment insulating layer may comprise a 1.5 m thick parylene poly para xylylene coating deposited on an electrode by chemical vapor deposition. When placed in static and 1 ml min flow rate of PBS solution a parylene insulating layer essentially prevents background resonance frequency shifts greater than 30 Hz and 60 Hz respectively over a period of 30 minutes. As a result insulating layer enables complete submersion of the microcantilever for in situ or in solution detection while maintaining a Q value quality value greater than 35. For the purposes of this patent application Q value is defined as the ratio of the resonance frequency to the resonance peak width at half the peak height.

Alternatively the PEMS may be insulated using self assembled monolayers with hydrophobic properties preferably methyltrimethoxysilane MTMS or a combination of MTMS with parylene coatings of varying thicknesses may also be used. When immersed in a PBS solution an MTMS insulated piezoelectric microcantilever yields strong resonance peak intensities and prevents background resonance frequency shifts greater than 30 Hz over a period of 30 minutes.

Other insulation materials may include AlO SiOand any functional hydrophobic silane having a hydrophobic group selected from the group consisting of alkyl phenyl alkyl halide alkene alkyne and sulfhydryl. In a preferred embodiment the insulation material is mercaptopropylsilane MPTS which can also function to immobilize a receptor on the cantilever.

Receptors may be densely packed and immobilized onto for example a bi functional linker modified sensor surface. Any receptor such as specially synthesized cavitants DNA oligonucleotides proteins single chain variable fragments scFvs enzymes and antibodies to cells antigens or pathogens may be bound to the sensor surface. For example when trying to detect tumors monomeric and dimeric anti tumor scFv molecules which are composed of variable light and heavy chains of antibody molecule anti ECD scFV that react to cancer markers may be bound to the electrodes. Similarly when trying to detect BA antibodies specific to BA spore surface antigens may be immobilized on the electrodes.

Any means of adhering receptors to the sensor surface may be utilized. In a preferred embodiment receptors are bound to the electrodes using an immobilization coating such as self assembled monolayers SAM MPTS and bi functional linkers. In one embodiment for purposes of binding scFv the immobilization coating may be a self assembled monolayer of 3 mercaptoproprionic acid MPA on a copper and gold coated electrode activated with 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropy carbodimide hydrochloride EDC and 5 mg ml N hydroxysulfosuccinimide NHS .

The PEMS also includes at least one non piezoelectric layer which may be fabricated from any compatible material including ceramic polymeric or metallic materials. Preferably the non piezoelectric layer is fabricated from silicon dioxide SiO silicon nitride SiN any ceramic metallic or polymeric layer. A metallic layer such as Cu tin Ni Ti etc. or any combination is preferred because it can be provided by simple electroplating. For example a silicon nitride coating on single crystal silicon wafer may be prepared by low press chemical vapor deposition. A low stress silicon dioxide layer may subsequently be deposited on the silicon nitride layer by growing silicon dioxide films using low temperature oxide deposition or plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition.

Non piezoelectric layer may be bonded to a shorter piezoelectric layer so that the portion of non piezoelectric layer extending beyond the end of piezoelectric layer forms a non piezoelectric tip. Both piezoelectric layer and non piezoelectric layer may be attached to a clamp. In an alternative embodiment piezoelectric layer may extend beyond non piezoelectric layer forming a piezoelectric tip. In order to achieve the best results one of the piezoelectric and non piezoelectric layers preferably extends beyond the other to form a tip. A PEMS may also include multiple piezoelectric and non piezoelectric layers. For example a non piezoelectric layer may be placed between two piezoelectric layers or a piezoelectric layer may be placed between two non piezoelectric layers.

A significant aspect of the microcantilever device is the fabrication of a non toxic lead free highly sensitive piezoelectric layer which enables electrical detection and actuation within the cantilever. Piezoelectric layer may be constructed from any non toxic piezoelectric material preferably a lead free piezoelectric material fabricated in accordance with the precursor coating and sintering method discussed above. The piezoelectric layer may function as a driving element vibrating element and sensing element. Applying an AC voltage input across the piezoelectric layer bends and vibrates the PEMS which in turn induces a piezoelectric voltage that produces readily detectable changes in the magnitude and phase of the output voltage. The resonance frequency of the PEMS is obtained by monitoring the maximum of the phase shift of the output voltage. This measurement is accomplished all electrically i.e. electrical actuation and electrical sensing.

To further increase sensitivity and expedite the detection process the PEMS may be immersed in a flowing solution for in solution detection. The PEMS is preferably situated in a flow cell system to enable tailored rapid and simultaneous detection and quantification of multiple organic compounds or molecules.

Another means for further enhancing sensitivity is by increasing humidity. The mass change per unit area per percent humidity change of PZT PEMS is estimated to be about 1.2 10g Hz mm humidity. The sensitivity of PMN PEMS by comparison is known to be about three times greater than that of PZT PEMS.

The resultant PEMS are chemically inert thermally stable and miniaturized to enhance sensitivity. They function by binding target molecules that react to the receptors immobilized on the electrodes. The corresponding change in mass shifts the mechanical resonance frequency of the microcantilever. The PEMS is capable of detecting these shifts in resonance frequency by monitoring the i mode flexural resonance frequency f which is related to the effective spring constant K and effective mass M of the piezoelectric cantilever at the tip as shown in Equation 2.

These PEMS may be used for various sensing applications such as solid liquid transition detectors liquid viscosity and density sensors mass sensors for in situ and in water detection. PEMS may generally be used for detection of any molecule or organic compound.

In an exemplary embodiment the method of the present invention may be used to fabricate lead free Sb NKNLN free standing films. A precursor solution was first formulated by dissolving NaNO Alfa Aesar 99 and KNO Alfa Aesar 99 in about 200 ml of ethylene glycol at about 90 C. and subsequently adding lithium 2 4 pentanedionate Alfa Aesar 98 to produce a clear solution. Next the NbOparticles Alfa Aesar 99.9 and SbOparticles Alfa Aesar 99.998 were added to the precursor solution resulting in a 0.5 M concentration. The suspension was then ultrasonicated for about 5 minutes to break up the NbOand SbOagglomerates and then dried to obtain the precursor coated NbOand SbOlead free powder mixture.

After calcination at about 850 C. for about 2 hours the powder was ball milled for about 24 hours and sieved using 45 and 100 meshes for better packing. The powder was then mixed with a proprietary dispersing resin and ball milled in an alcohol ketone mixture for about 24 hours. With the remaining resin and a phthalate based plasticizer the precursor powder was further ball milled for about 24 hours de aired cast to the desired thickness and sintered at about 1100 1120 C. for about 2 hours. Sintering was carried out in alumina crucibles sealed by a packing powder having the same composition as that of the film.

A 40 nm thick lead free Sb NKNLN free standing film fabricated in accordance with the method of Example 1 was tested for its piezoelectric properties.

The film was first configured to form a microcantilever sensor and an electric field was applied to the sensor. The determination of the piezoelectric coefficient dof the Sb NKNLN film was carried out using two different methods 1 direct measurement wherein the lateral displacement of the piezoelectric strip was measured under an applied electric field i.e. the converse piezoelectric effect and 2 cantilever bending measurement wherein the tip displacement of a cantilever consisting of the piezoelectric film bonded to a non piezoelectric layer such as copper was measured under an applied electric field. In both measurement methods a laser displacement meter Keyence model LC2450 was used to acquire the displacements. For method 1 both sides of the cantilever were sputtered with Pt electrode. A small piece of 0.002 inch thick titanium foil was attached to the tip of the cantilever as a minor for the laser to focus on. For method 2 one side of the cantilever was sputtered with Pt and the other side was electroplated with copper as a non piezoelectric layer to induce bending upon the application of electric field. The laser beam was directly focused on the cantilever surface at the tip.

The strain was determined by measuring the lateral displacement of a Sb doped NKN LN strip having a thickness of about 40 m and a Sb doped NKN LN bulk bar having a thickness of about 550 m under an applied electric field. The dcoefficient values were deduced by dividing the measured strain by the applied electric field.

As shown in as DC electric field increased the strains and dvalues of both the Sb doped NKN LN film and the Sb doped NKN LN bulk bar. However the free standing film showed a much larger strain increase and to a much higher value than the bulk bar resulting in about 10 fold to 20 fold increase in the dvalue. The Sb NKNLN bulk materials produced dvalues ranging from 82 to 116 pm V See H. Li et al. Effect of Antimony Concentration on the Crystalline Structure Dielectric and Piezoelectric Properties of NaK LiNbSbOSolid Solutions 90 3070 2007 and S. Zhang et al. Piezoelectric Properties in Perovskite 0.948 KNa NbO 0.052LiSbOlead free ceramics 100 104108 2006 . The determined dvalue induced at a low electrical field of about 6 to about 8 kV cm agreed with the reported values.

An ESEM photograph of the cross section of the Sb NKNLN free standing film shows that the film is fully dense and that there are only about 10 to about 20 grains across the thickness direction of the film.

Direct measurement of dwas also performed on undoped NKN to verify the electric field enhancement of the free standing film geometry. shows the behavior of the lateral strain and the determined dvalue of an undoped NKN free standing strip having a thickness of about 60 m under an applied electric field. When the electric field was lower than about 3 kV cm the lateral displacement of the strip was smaller than the resolution of the laser displacement meter. Thus no reading was obtained at those fields. At about 3 kV cm a determined dvalue of about 41 pm V was obtained consistent with the reported dvalue of undoped NKN at an field of about 32 to about 49 pm V. Similar to the behavior of Sb NKNLN free standing films as the electric field increased the dincreased and reached a maximum of about 250 pm V at about 10 kV cm which represents about a 5 fold increase compared to the value of the bulk bar.

The dvalue of the Sb NKNLN film was also measured by bonding the free standing films to a nonpiezoelectric layer forming a cantilever and performing cantilever bending measurement. The cantilevers used for this measurement was about 3 mm to about 4 mm long and about 0.5 mm to about 0.7 mm wide. One side of the cantilever was incorporated a Pt electrode and the other side was electroplated with Cu. The thickness of the Sb NKNLN material in the cantilever was about 40 m and the thickness of the Cu nonpiezoelectric layer was about 25 m. The piezoelectric layer may in some cases be denser than the nonpiezoelectric layer.

The laser beam of the laser displacement meter was focused on the tip of the cantilever which was screwed to an optical table. Upon the application of the electric field across the thickness direction of the Sb NKNLN layer the cantilever deformed due to the constraint of the copper non piezoelectric layer resulting in a vertical displacement of the cantilever tip which was monitored by the displacement meter. The dvalue of the Sb NKNLN film was then determined using the following equation 

As shown in the dvalue obtained using the cantilever bending measurement was much smaller than that of the direct measurement from the Sb NKNLN strip. This was likely due to the presence of the Cu layer. In the direct measurement the thickness of the Pt electrodes coated on both sides of the Sb NKNLN film was only in the nanometer magnitude. Because the electroplated Cu layer used in the bending measurement has a similar thickness in comparison to that of the Sb NKNLN layer it could have compromised the free standing condition of the Sb NKNLN film and consequently produced a smaller enhancement of the piezoelectric coefficient. Nevertheless the dvalue of Sb NKNLN still showed about a 2 fold increase at a field of about 5 kV cm.

Domain switching in ferroelectrics may be classified as 180 domain switching and non 180 switching. Only non 180 domain switching induces strain in the material. Two different approaches were used to determine the ease of the film s non 180 domain switching capabilities namely 1 studying the behavior of the dielectric constant of the material under an increasing electric field and 2 studying in situ XRD patterns of the film under an electric field.

Generally the tetragonal a domain has a larger dielectric constant than the tetragonal c domain Under a sufficiently large electric field in the free standing ferroelectric film the dominant a domains whose polarization directions are along the planar direction will switch by 90 and become c domains. As a result a decrease in the dielectric constant is expected. Therefore the behavior of the dielectric constant under an external electric field is an indication of the non 180 domain wall motion. shows the normalized dielectric constant of the Sb NKNLN free standing films and the bulk bar as functions of electric field. The electric field was applied along the poling direction of the sample or opposite to the poling direction.

As shown in the behavior of the bulk bar remained fairly uniform. An 8 decrease in the dielectric constant was observed in both positive and negative electric field directions at a 10 kV cm field. By contrast the free standing film showed asymmetric behavior. When the electric field direction is the same as that of the poling direction the film exhibited a similar degree of decline in the dielectric constant as that of the bulk bar sample. When the field is opposite to the poling direction the dielectric constant showed a greater decline of over about 13 at 10 kV cm indicating that the free standing films enable easier non 180 domain switching.

Non 180 domain wall motion was also determined by measuring the change of the XRD patterns of the material under an applied electric field. The integrated intensity of the XRD peaks corresponds to the populations of a domains and c domains X. Li W. Y. Shih J. S. Vartuli D. L. Milius I. A. Aksay and W. H. Shih Effect of Transverse Tensile Stress on Electric Field Induced Domain Reorientation in Soft PZT In Situ XRD Study 85 4 844 2002 .

A 0 kV cm 5 kV cm 10 kV cm 15 kV cm and 20 kV cm electric field was applied to the Sb NKNLN free standing film and bulk bar under various experimental conditions. shows the in situ XRD of the unpoled Sb NKNLN free standing film and the bulk bar. Before poling the free standing film showed XRD peak intensity changed due to domain switching as electric field increased over a range of 0 kV cm to 20 kV cm. However for the bulk material the XRD pattern remained essentially unchanged up to about 20 kV cm. The results for an applied electric field at 5 kV cm and 15 kV cm are similar to that disclosed in .

After poling the intensities of the tetragonal peak 002 and tetragonal peak 200 significantly changed. The 002 peak grew much stronger as many domains switched from a oriented to c oriented. As shown in when a positive electric field was applied along the poling direction no appreciable change was observed for either the free standing films or the bulk bar. The results for an applied electric field at 5 kV cm 10 kV cm and 15 kV cm in and are similar to the curves disclosed in and respectively.

However when the electric field was applied in a direction opposite to the poling direction a peak intensity change was observed in the free standing film at 10 kV cm whereas the bulk bar still showed no change as shown in . The results for an applied electric field at 5 kV cm 15 kV cm and 15 kV cm in and are similar to the curves disclosed in and respectively. The in situ XRD results in and are consistent with the dielectric constant behavior of the free standing film and the bulk bar under an electric field which suggests that the free standing film geometry enables easier domain switching.

