---

title: Correlated control for close focus stereoscopic viewing
abstract: Exceptionally crisp infrared images are provided by a binocular infrared imaging system for close in focusing that simultaneously directs the center lines of the optical channels to a close in point while at the same time providing auto focusing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146448&OS=09146448&RS=09146448
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09146448
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130723
---
The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. H94003 04 D 002 0076 awarded by the US Army. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

This application claims rights under 35 USC 119 e from U.S. Application Ser. No. 61 674 432 filed Jul. 23 2012 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to stereoscopic and more particularly to an infrared system for close in infrared imaging especially of the human body so that ultra sharp stereoscopic images of a region on the body may be presented.

In phlebotomy and other medical procedures it is oftentimes important to be able to see subsurface structures in order to better perform a surgical operation or for instance to locate veins in order to successfully complete a phlebotomy.

In the past infrared imaging in the medical environment to detect bleeding and arterial structure and for instance anything that cannot be seen in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum such as bone overheating tissue overheating and the like cannot be readily observed due to the lack of the ability of instruments to provide a reasonably sharp infrared image of the inspected area.

Moreover focal plane arrays for infrared imaging in the past have only been available with 28 micron pixel spacing which does not lend itself to anything other than a relatively fuzzy picture of the body part being inspected by the thermal imagery process.

Typically thermal imaging on the body has involved long wave infrared in the range of 8 15 m. However with 28 micron pixel spacing image quality remains poor.

Moreover those thermal imaging instruments that are utilized in the medical field could only focus from infinity down to 10 meters or perhaps as little as 1 meter.

However those IR imaging systems that were capable of 1 meter focal lengths were not useful in close up viewing of the human body that require a 6 inch to 60 inch operating range. Thus while microbolometers have been used to detect heat the only thing that was sensed was an average heat reading over a given area. Thus short range thermal imaging only resulted in fuzzy or blurry images. In short these devices could not focus close in on subjects.

One of the reasons for the failure of IR imagers to have a very short focus was in part due to the size of the optics and the hardware necessary to provide a close in sharp image. It will be appreciated that providing a blotchy image of a human body part or area is not very useful in detecting subsurface structure.

Regardless of the fact that there were no single optical channel systems to produce sufficiently sharp infrared images there was still a need for stereo imagery in certain surgical procedures to provide depth perception. Depth perception is oftentimes important because when doing surgery one can accidently for instance cut an adjacent structure so that for instance blood vessels could be nicked during the procedure. Without depth perception one could not identify the location of the internal structure. Thus in the prior art there were no stereo infrared imaging systems used much less those capable of imaging targets within about 6 inches of the objective lenses of the binoculars. The requirement therefore is to have acceptably sharp thermal images for objects within 6 to 60 inches from the objective lenses of the binocular viewing device a requirement not met by current infrared technology.

Referring to U.S. Pat. No. 6 701 081 a binocular system is described which enables focusing to a point in space removed from the objective lenses by skewing the optical center lines of the optical channels so that they converge on a spot somewhere short of infinity. Note that the system operates in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum and was not used for thermal imaging. Moreover from this patent it appears that the minimum focus distance was on the order of 10 feet which would make it inapplicable to the type of medical imaging described above.

However just simply having the two optical channels having optical center lines which intersect at a distance from the binoculars is not sufficient to provide crisp focusing. The only way to provide crisp focusing is by providing a focal plane array spaced from an objective lens and by moving the focal plane array relative to the objective lens.

It will be appreciated that both skewing the optical channels to intersect at a close in range as well as providing independent focusing for each of the channels once the channels have been skewed would provide for the best resolution of a close in image.

It is noted that the above mentioned patent uses a worm gear to rotate the optical axes of the two channels of the binoculars and involves a relatively long focus distance incompatible with short close in work that would be required in the medical field namely a 6 to 60 inch working distance.

Moreover any movement of the image focal plane in the two channels of the above mentioned patent is restricted to adjusting the image focal plane in one channel to be exactly at the same distance as the image focal plane of the other channel there being no independent adjustment of the focal planes in each channel and certainly no automatic focus involving the movement of focal plane arrays in each of the channels relative to their own objective lenses.

In order to provide exceptionally crisp infrared images for instance for use in biomedical applications a binocular infrared imaging system for close in focusing simultaneously provides for a close in focal point and simultaneous focusing in each of the optical channels. To do this a mechanism is provided for skewing the center lines of the two optical channels in the binocular to intersect at a close in point while simultaneously adjusting the distance of the focal plane arrays in each of the channels from their respective objective lenses. The result is that in one operation the focal point of the binoculars is moved in towards the binoculars while at the same time adjusting focal plane array positioning for precise focusing in each of the channels. The subject binocular infrared imaging system provides images of such crispness and sharpness that the subject infrared imaging system may be utilized for close in work in the medical field such as for instance in surgery and phlebotomy applications.

More particularly in order to be able to provide exceptionally sharp or crisp thermal imaging for medical applications and the like in which subsurface characteristics are made viewable with sufficient sharpness an infrared binocular arrangement includes the ability to have the optical center lines of the two optical channels intersect at a point as little as 6 inches from the objective lenses of the binoculars to as much as 60 inches thus to provide exceptionally sharp close in thermal image viewing. Simultaneous with the adjustment or skewing of the two optical center lines the focal plane arrays in each of the channels are focused either mechanically or electronically such that not only are the optical center lines of the channels coincident directly at the point to be imaged but also the focal plane arrays associated with each of the channels are independently adjusted so that exceptional stereo infrared clarity is achieved.

In order to support increased resolution of the close in infrared system focal plane arrays having 17 micron pixel spacing are used.

In one embodiment the two optical channels are pivotable around two different pivots utilizing sector gears that are activated by a focusing distance gear rotated by a focus knob and positioned in between the sector gears. The sector gears are moved by the focusing distance gear so as to make the optical center lines of the two channels coincident on a point in space within the 6 inch to 60 inch working distance.

In one embodiment a pin slot actuating system is utilized such that when the sector gears are moved to skew the optical center lines the focal plane arrays associated with each of the two channels are moved due to the camming action of the pin slot measurement to vary the distance between the focal plane array and its associated objective lens. Thus as the optical axes of the two channels are skewed inwardly each focal plane array is moved away from its objective lens by the appropriate amount to maintain sharp focus.

The focal plane arrays are arranged on translating carriage assemblies which are supported in one embodiment by rods running aft from the lens support assembly from the associated objective lens so that the carriage is always moved along the center line of its objective lens. In another embodiment a wheel and track assembly is utilized in which the carriage rather than being suspended on rods is translated in a track using the wheel track assembly again maintaining the focal plane movement along the center line of the associated objective lens.

In combination with the camming action for positioning the focal plane arrays in one embodiment each of the carriages carries an auto focus assembly which can be utilized either separately or in addition to the focusing accomplishable by the above camming action when focusing on a particular point within the working range.

The results of the two actions provide a clear image of underlying thermal structures such as for instance in phlebotomy the ability to resolve even the thinnest of veins. When used in phlebotomy the subject binocular device is mounted above the arm or leg to be phlebotomized. A 3D display driven by the focal point arrays provides the technician with a clear accurate picture of where the subsurface veins are and the ability to be able to insert a needle at the exact point where the vein occurs. Unlike monocular systems binocular infrared optics allow depth perception to assure proper placement of surgical instruments.

The subject infrared binocular system may be used not only for phlebotomy but also in many types of surgical procedures where it is important to be able to resolve artifacts or structures that are obscured by other tissue. So good is the infrared imagery that it rivals that of imagery in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum to give doctors and surgeons a new tool in performing precise surgeries that heretofore may have resulted in accidental nicks or cutting of unwanted structures within the body.

In summary in order to obtain exceptional sharpness for infrared images the two optical channels need to be pointed at the same near in point in space both horizontally and vertically. Note that in azimuth the eyeballs are able to correct a large degree of error. But if the two channels are not perfectly aligned in azimuth or horizontally then the person s eyes can go cross eyed which is not comfortable. With respect to elevation or height error if the point of focus is off the person utilizing the binocular system will get headaches because the individual cannot fuse the two images together. Elevation error is minimized by shimming.

Referring now to a binocular infrared imaging system is located by a support apparatus above the arm of a patient so that the point of focus of the binocular is at a point on the arm of the patient.

The purpose of providing such an infrared imaging device is to be able to locate subsurface structures in the arm in this case for the purpose of a phlebotomy in which the subsurface structures to be detected are the veins in arm as projected onto a display when using for instance a computer laptop coupled to the focal plane arrays of the binocular device. It will be appreciated that is for illustrative purposes to show that the image developed by the infrared binocular is exceedingly crisp and sharp. It will be noted that display may be a three dimensional display for providing depth perception. Alternatively individual LCD displays may be mounted in the eyepieces of the binoculars with the small LCD displays driven by the focal plane arrays. As a result peering into the binoculars provides the crisp 3D image available from the subject unit.

It will also be appreciated that rather than mounting binocular on a support device above a physician s head the support device may support binoculars at a position usable by doctor to view the binocular image directly from the binoculars with the binoculars positioned between the doctor s head and arm of the patient.

In either case a binocular view of the point on the patient s arm is viewed in three dimensions because of the stereoscopic view associated with binoculars .

In order to provide for a crisp image to be viewed by the doctor or other personnel performing the surgical procedure it is of paramount importance to be able to crisply represent to the doctor or other personnel the subsurface structure on which the doctor or other personnel are operating. It is thus the purpose of the subject binocular infrared imaging system to give the doctor or other medical personnel the ability to visualize subsurface structures and to be able to position scalpels or other operating equipment relative to the subsurface structure without for instance nicking or otherwise damaging surrounding structure. This for instance provides the doctor or other medical personnel the ability to visualize the subsurface structure not only for instance in locating veins for a phlebotomy procedure but also for instance to locate bone structure beneath soft tissue when an operation so requires. Thus the subject infrared binocular system is useful for instance in knee surgery and in a large number of other surgeries in which the object to be operated on is hidden by tissue which would obstruct the subsurface structure.

In one embodiment the binocular infrared imaging system utilizes long wave infrared radiation which is particularly useful in detecting subsurface structures due to the heat that the subsurface structure exhibits or radiates.

Referring to the subject binocular infrared imaging system includes the binoculars which have two optical channels with eye piece and lenses and providing one end of the optical channel with objective lenses and providing the other end of the optical channel.

Initially the binocular has the optical channels parallel and focused at infinity as illustrated in in which the optical center lines and for the two optical channels are parallel. Each of the objective lenses and are supported on a pivotable lens support assembly and which is pivoted around respective pivot points and . Note that the pointing direction of each of the optical channels is determined by the position of sector gears and whose positions are in turn dictated by a focus gear which is operated by a focusing knob to move the direction of center lines and to cross as illustrated in at a point which is within a working range of 6 inches to 60 inches thereby to provide for close in imaging such as useful in medical applications.

In order to achieve the crispness of infrared imaging and referring now to it will be seen that center lines and are skewed so as to cross at point . This is accomplished by rotation of gear in the direction of arrow which causes sectors and to move in the direction of arrows so as to come to rest at the position shown at and . This action in and of itself causes the lens support assembly and to shift the optical channels so as to skew them onto a close in point. This is because sectors and are mechanically connected to the lens support assemblies for the optical channels.

Being able to skew the optical axis of the two channels onto a close in point will improve the focus by which the infrared objects may be viewed. It is nonetheless important to be able to simultaneously adjust focal plane arrays and relative to their objective lenses and .

In order to do this each of the focal plane arrays is mounted to a translatable carriage and which are made to move in the direction of arrows in an aft direction along the center line of each of the associated objective lenses. Thus as the focal point moves towards the binocular system the focal plane arrays are moved aft along the center line to maintain focus of point onto the respective focal plane array.

How this mechanical focusing system moves carriages and is now described. In each case a pin fixed to the binocular body coacts with a corresponding slot in carriages and such that as the direction of the optical channels are skewed the action of the fixed pin against the slot in the carriage moves the carriage aft from the position shown in to the position shown in with the fixed pin moving from one end of the slot to the other as the skewing angle is increased.

It will be appreciated that the movement of sectors and moves the objective lens support assembly and . Here it will be noted that sectors and are constrained in their motion by fixed pins and cooperating with associated slots and . Thus the sector movement is mechanically ganged to the objective lens support assembly of the optical channels so as to provide the aforementioned skewing.

This action is more clearly shown in in which sectors and are shown rotatable about pivots and respectively.

Here it can be seen that fixed pins are at the bottom of corresponding slots in carriages and . In this position the optical axis of the channels are parallel and focused at infinity. When however it is desired to focus into a spot between 6 and 60 inches from the binocular assembly sectors and are rotated which causes objective lens support assembly and to move in the direction of arrows and .

Simultaneously carriages and move in the direction of arrows to move respective focal plane arrays and aft along the optical center line of the respective objective lens. This is due to the camming action of fixed pin against slot in each of the focal plane array carriages.

It is noted that carriages and are pivoted about pivot and respectively to skew the optical channels with pivot and serving both for the pivoting of the sectors and the pivoting of the objective lens support assembly.

Referring now to an objective lens support assembly in this case assembly rather than being supplied with a translational carriage for the support of the moveable focal plane array is rather provided with an autofocus module shown in dotted outline at which due to its automatic operation moves the associated focal plane array to automatically focus on the spot selected.

Referring now to it can be seen that carriages and may be mounted for translation along the optical center line and of the objective lenses and by virtue of supporting the carriage with a roller wheel assembly here shown at with two wheels and to one side of the carriage whereas a single wheel coacts with an opposite side of carriage to maintain the movement of the focal plane array carriage in the direction of double ended arrow . Here the focal plane arrays and are shown mechanically attached to the respective translatable carriages and such that the focal plane array is moved in towards or away from the objective lens along the optical center line of the lens.

In summary the subject system provides close in focusing of an infrared binocular camera unit by first skewing the optical center lines of the two optical channels so that they converge at a point close in to the binoculars in one embodiment between 6 inches and 60 inches. Simultaneously with the skewing of the optical channels the associated focal plane arrays are positioned at the focal point of the objective lenses in the binoculars so that the point to which the channels are skewed is in focus in each one of the channels. Thus the clarity or crispness of the infrared image is dependent on both the skewing of the optical channels to focus in on a close in point while at the same time adjusting the focal plane array positions relative to their objective lenses to provide the best possible focus.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications or additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the recitation of the appended claims.

