---

title: Device-to-device communication for resource sharing
abstract: Embodiments of techniques and systems associated with device-to-device (D2D) resource sharing are described. In some embodiments, a D2D communication channel between a first device and a second device is established and a sharing request is received at the first device, from the second device, including a credential identifying the second device. Data representative of a first resource locally available to the first device, but not locally available to the second device, is provided to the second device by the first device. Use of the first resource may be controlled in accordance with an instruction transmitted to the first device from the second device. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09112884&OS=09112884&RS=09112884
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09112884
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
The present application is a national phase entry under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2013 031008 filed Mar. 13 2013 entitled DEVICE TO DEVICE COMMUNICATION FOR RESOURCE SHARING which designated among the various States the United States of America. The Specification of the PCT US2013 031008 Application is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to the field of electrical devices and more particularly to techniques and systems associated with sharing of resources between devices.

Existing architectures for sharing the resources of multiple devices often rely on a central server system for accessing the resources and allocating the resources to users of the devices. For example cloud computing systems rely on an Internet communication interlace to connect users with resources of the cloud devices. Private networks e.g. within a business or other institution similarly rely on central servers. Some network architectures are distributed e.g. ad hoc sensor networks but such architectures are typically configured for transmitting information from each of the distributed devices and do not allow the devices to share control of device resources.

Embodiments of techniques and systems associated with device to device D2D resource sharing are described. In some embodiments a D2D communication channel between a first device and a second device is established and a sharing request is received at the first device from the second device including a credential identifying the second device. Data representative of a first resource locally available to the first device but not locally available to the second device is provided to the second device by the first device. Use of the first resource may be controlled in accordance with an instruction transmitted to the first device from the second device.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form apart hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout and in which is shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete actions or operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations not be performed in the order of presentation. Operations described may be performed in a different order than the described embodiment. Various additional operations may be performed and or described operations may be omitted in additional embodiments.

For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A B and or C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C .

The description uses the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments ofthe present disclosure are synonymous. As used herein the terms module and logic may refer to be part of or include an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processing device shared dedicated or group and or memory shared dedicated or group that execute one or more software or firmware programs a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality.

The term device as used herein may include one or more wireless or wired electronic components such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a cellular telephone a pager an audio and or video player e.g. an MP3 player or a DVD player a gaming device a video camera a digital camera a navigation device e.g. a GPS device a peripheral e.g. a printer a scanner a headset a keyboard a mouse etc. a medical device a heart rate monitor a blood pressure monitor etc. and or other fixed portable or mobile electronic devices. Devices may communicate with each other referred to as device to device or D2D communication in any of a number of ways including Universal Serial Bus USB connections wireless near field communication NFC protocols or any of a nuMber of other wired or wireless communication modalities. The term constellation as used herein may refer to a collection of two or more devices each configured to share resources with at least one other device in the collection. Communication between various pairs of devices in a constellation may take place using different communication modalities for different pairs or may be constrained to a single common modality. As used herein the term resource may refer to a hardware firmware or software component or a combination of two or more of such components whose functionality may be used by a device. For example a video camera device may have video recording audio recording image processing and storage resources. In another example a laptop computer device may have a sensor interface resource and an accelerometer resource coupled to the laptop computer via the sensor interface.

As used herein the terms local and remote may refer to relationships between resources and devices and between devices. A resource local to a device may be controlled by and or in communication with the device without use of the resource sharing systems and or techniques described herein. Examples of resources local to a device may include resources embedded in the device e.g. one or more processing devices such as processor cores embedded in a computing device resources controlled by the device through a wireless NFC path e.g. a headset in communication with a smartphone via a Bluetooth protocol and resources coupled to the device via a USB parallel port or other wired or peripheral protocol e.g. an electronic effects pedal in wired communication with an electric guitar device. A device that is local to a resource may be referred to as the owner of the resource. A resource may have more than one owner device and an owner device may be associated with more than one resource. A resource remote to a device may not be controlled by and or in communication with the device without going through an intermediate device that is an owner of that resource without use of the resource sharing systems and or techniques described herein. A resource local to a remote device may be referred to as a remote resource As used herein resources may include physical and or virtual resources and devices may include physical and or virtual devices. As used herein control of a resource may include access to or receipt of data associated with the resource e.g. access to video data generated by a digital video camera .

Referring now to an example D2D resource sharing device is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments. Device may be or may include any one or more of the devices described above such as a smartphone or a tablet computer. Device may own local resources which as discussed above may include one or more hardware firmware and or software components. As discussed in detail below device may be configured to share some or all of local resources with other similarly configured D2D resource sharing devices. In some embodiments this sharing may take place over D2D communication channels established between device and each of the other devices without the assistance of a central coordinating server . In some embodiments this sharing may take place over communication channels established between device and each of the other devices with the assistance of one or more coordinating servers which may be remote to device . Additionally information about local resources may be provided to and processed by the other devices so that applications running on the other devices are able to control local resources as if they were local to the other devices.

In some embodiments device may include application layer service layer and resource management layer . In general each layer of device may process information about available resources and provide the processed information to one or more layers above it thereby allowing the higher layers to operate at higher levels of abstraction with regard to the available resources. One or more applications may execute in application layer and may draw on resource information provided by service layer . In some embodiments service layer may be a mobile operating system OS service layer. In turn service layer may process resource information provided by resource management layer . In some embodiments resource management layer may manage access by service layer and or application layer to local resources and or remote resources not shown . In some embodiments resource management layer may notify service layer when changes in available resources occur. Service layer may notify currently active or future applications running in application layer of resource changes so that the applications may for example adapt to the addition of new resources and utilize them as if the resources were local to device . For example in some embodiments application layer may register a callback when resource management layer determines that a resource is newly available is no longer available has had a change in one or more properties or under any other suitable condition.

Resource management layer may include D2D communication module . D2D communication module may be coupled to credential management module resource aggregation module and local resource controller . In some embodiments D2D communication module may be configured for receiving a sharing request from a remote device not shown . The sharing request may represent a request from the remote device to initiate a session to share resources. This sharing may take the form of the use and or offer of use of one of local resources by the remote device the use and or offer of use of a resource local to the remote device by device or a combination of both. As used herein the control of a device may include D2D communication module may receive a sharing request via one or more wired or wireless communications components such as one or more antennas.

In some embodiments a sharing request may be triggered by one or more actions such as an NFC tap a change of location of the requesting device as determined e.g. by a global positioning system GPS device or an accelerometer an infrared based ping query between the devices etc. In some embodiments the trigger action may be user configurable e.g. through a user interface on the requesting device such as a keypad touchscreen or other interface . In some embodiments a sharing request from a device may include credential data which may for example identify the device. Various embodiments of sharing requests are discussed below with reference to credential management module and with reference to . In some embodiments a sharing request may be transmitted separately from credential data.

D2D communication module may also be configured for establishing a D2D communication channel between device and a remote device for transmitting information and instructions to the remote device via the D2D communication channel and or for receiving information and instructions from the remote device via the D2D communication channel. In some embodiments a D2D communication channel may be a private secure channel between two devices over which resource sharing information and instructions may be transmitted. A private secure channel may be established between two devices in accordance with any suitable technique known in the art. For example in some embodiments a Secure Socket Layer SSL protocol and or a Transport Layer Security TLS protocol e.g. with mutual authentication may be used. In some such embodiments an encrypted channel may be established between two devices and the devices may authenticate each other using X.509 certificates or another public private key authentication scheme.

Resource management layer may include credential management module . Credential management module may be coupled to D2D communication management module and local resource control module . In some embodiments credential management module may be configured for providing and or receiving credentials for identifying authenticating and or authorizing the sharing of resources between device and one or more remote devices. For example credential management module may be configured for receiving from a remote device a credential that identifies the remove device and that may be used to enable the remote device to control one or more of local resources via instructions transmitted from the remote device to device via a D2D communication channel established by D2D communication management module . In some embodiments credential data from a device may include a unique device name serial number or other identifier. In some embodiments credential data managed by credential management module may identify a remote device as belonging to an authorized group of devices with which sharing may take place e.g. a group of devices owned by a common organization or made available to each other via a sharing agreement .

In some embodiments a credential may include an encryption key a security certificate a password or other data that the remote device may use to signal to device that the remote device is or should be authorized by device to share local resources or a subset thereof . In some embodiments a credential may authenticate the identity of a device in accordance with known techniques for automatically secured D2D communication. For example credential management module may generate a character string and may authorize a remote device to share local resources when the remove device provides that character string to device as a credential. In some embodiments device and the remote device must be in physical proximity to allow visual transfer of the character string e.g. by having a camera of the remote device capture the character string from a display of device or by having a user of the remote device view a display of device and manually enter the character string using a keyboard of the remote device . In some embodiments credential data provided by a remote device may be accompanied by data representative of shareable resources local to the remote device in other embodiments data representative of shareable resources may be provided separately from credential data. Such latter embodiments may advantageously minimize wasted data transfer when for example a remote device s credentials are not accepted by device and thus sharing will be prohibited.

In some embodiments in which a constellation of three or more devices are sharing resources in some combination one or more of the devices in the constellation may serve as central credential management entities and may maintain credential data and make credential determinations for the entire constellation. In some embodiments such central credential management entities may synchronize credential data among the devices in the constellation on a synchronous or asynchronous basis. In some embodiments a session token may be supplied to establish a secure session for resource sharing other session attributes such as a list of current devices in the constellation refreshed authentication credentials etc may also be supplied as part of establishing the session. Depending on the degree of robustness desired for the constellation a device added to the constellation may serve as a mesh or ring network node as well so as to help maintain the constellation if other devices exit the constellation.

Credential management module may also be configured along with D2D communication module and resource aggregation module discussed below to manage the process of one or more remote devices leaving a resource sharing arrangement with device and thus the loss of one or more remote resources. For example in some embodiments credential management module may along with resource aggregation module provide an exit event to application layer when a remote device and or resource is no longer accessible to device e.g. because the remote device loses power or is dropped and breaks . The exit event provided to application layer may be provided in a manner similar to existing techniques for managing hot plug devices such as smart cards or server storage racks .

Resource management layer may inc ude resource aggregation module . Resource aggregation module may be coupled to D2D communication module and local resource properties management module . In some embodiments D2D communication module may receive from a remote device data representative of a resource locally available to the remote device but not locally available to device . In such embodiments resource aggregation module may be configured to provide to another layer in device e.g. service layer a representation of this resource as a local resource available for use by device . For example in embodiments in which resource aggregation module provides a representation of a non local resource e.g. a resource local to a remote device to service layer the non local resource may appear to service layer as a local resource available for use by service layer and or other layers such as application layer .

Service layer and or application layer may provide instructions for control of the non local resource as if the non local resource were local to device . In some embodiments resource management layer may intercept these instructions and route them to the appropriate local component e.g. local resource control module discussed below or remote device. In some embodiments resource aggregation module may abstract the mechanisms and internal details required to use a local or remote resource and present resources as virtual resources using a standard application programming interface API . For example in some embodiments resource aggregation module may expose itself as a device driver e.g. when some or all resources are usually exposed via device drivers such as hard drive resources . Other existing programming APIs may be used. In some embodiments service layer may embody one or more such standardized APIs e.g. Open Device Read Write etc. to access resources. Resource management layer may then implement the API by parsing and routing more primitive commands to the targeted resource. Some embodiments may virtualize a resource by making it appear that a single resource can be owned by multiple clients or exists as multiple instances. In some embodiments a remote resource meant to appear as a local resource could also be so virtualized as such remote resource virtualization may occur before aggregation and or standard resource virtualization takes place. A remote resource may have a local proxy equivalent that when accessed routes resource interaction requests to the remote device.

In some embodiments resource aggregation module may be configured for aggregating information about multiple ones of local resources that are of a same type and providing a representation of an aggregate resource to another layer in device e.g. service layer or to another device such as a remote device . In some embodiments resource aggregation module may be configured for aggregating information about one or more of local resources and one or more resources of a same type that are local to a remote device hut not local to device and providing a representation of an aggregate resource to another layer in device or to another device. In some embodiments resource aggregation module may be configured for aggregating information about one or more resources of a same type that are local to different remote devices hut not local to device and providing a representation of an aggregate resource to another layer in device or to another device. In some embodiments resource aggregation module may be configured for providing a representation of an aggregate resource based on any combination of resources available locally to device or any of its remote devices. Various embodiments of techniques for determining type and aggregating resources are discussed below e.g. with reference to .

Resource management layer may include local resource control module . Local resource control module may be coupled to D2D communication module credential management module and local resource properties management module . In some embodiments local resource control module may be configured for determining that a remote device is or should be authorized to control one or more of local resources . In some embodiments this determination may be based on one or more credentials received from the remote device and processed or otherwise stored by credential management module . Credential management module may also store data representative of which remote devices are authorized to access which if any of local resources . Such information may be referred to herein as an access control ACL which may be stored in a memory associated with local resource control module . In some embodiments an ACL may be associated with a single remote device and may identify which of local resources the remote device is authorized to control as well as any conditions on that control such as read only write only or read write . In some embodiments on ACL may be associated with a class of remote devices e.g. all smartphones . In some embodiments a single ACL may be associated with any remote device which is properly authenticated for resource sharing with device . Credential management module may further store information about the relative priority of various remote devices in using various ones of local resources .

In some embodiments local resource control module may be configured for controlling use of one or more of local resources in accordance with instructions transmitted to device from one or more remote devices authorized to control the one or more local resources or from layers of device such as service layer and or application layer . Local resource control module may receive information about which remote devices are authorized to control which of local resources from credential management module and in some embodiments may use this information to determine which instructions received from remote devices via D2D communication module are to be executed. In some embodiments D2D communication module evaluates whether instructions are authorized in accordance with information stored in credential management module prior to passing instructions to local resource control module .

Resource management layer may include local resource properties management module . Local resource properties management module may be coupled to resource aggregation module and local resource control module . In some embodiments local resource properties management module may include memory to store data about properties of one or more of local resources . That data may be used by resource aggregation module to determine how Co represent local resources to other layers such as service layer and or application layer and or to remote devices and how to aggregate local resources among themselves and or with resources not local to device . In some embodiments data about properties of one or more of local resources may be provided to local resource controller prior to executing a received instruction to ensure that the local resource targeted by the instruction has the properties required or desired for proper execution of the instruction.

One example of data representative of one or more of local resources may include data representative of current or past usage of a local resource. Another example is an indicator of the stickiness of a particular property whether that particular property e.g. a calibration factor of a medical device or a baseline value for a sensor is subject to change when a particular device the device or a remote device ceases to control the resource. In some embodiments one or more properties of each local resource are included in a resource property manifest stored in local resource properties management module . Various embodiments of local resource properties that may be stored in local resource properties management module are discussed below e.g. with reference to .

In some embodiments applications and or other processes executing on device e.g. in service layer and or application layer may be designed or optimized for use with resources that may be not be consistently available e.g. local resources that are shared with other devices or remote resources which may become unavailable when their owner device stops sharing the remote resource. Such processes may for example perform processing operating in smaller batches to reduce the probability of a disruption in the middle of a batch and improve the ability of the process to move operating to available resources.

Referring now to schematic illustrations of an example D2D resource sharing scenario are provided in accordance with various embodiments. The scenario of is intended to illustrate various aspects of the operation of embodiments of the D2D resource sharing techniques and systems described herein and is not limiting of the operation of the disclosed techniques and systems.

In device owning resource is shown as receiving sharing request front device . Sharing request may include credential which may identify device to device . Device and device may be configured as described above for device of . In particular each of device and device may have a resource management layer configured as described above for resource management layer of . Sharing request may be transmitted to device from device over a D2D communication channel.

In device is shown as providing data representative of resource to device . Data may be derived from for example an ACL associated with device associated with resource or both. Data and credential may be transmitted from device to device over a D2D communication channel.

In device is shown as receiving an instruction from device to control the use of resource . Instruction may be transmitted to device from device over D2D communication channel. In some embodiments although resource is not local to device a resource management layer included in device such as resource management layer of may provide a representation to a service and or application layer of device so that resource appears to the service and or application layer to be local to device . As such from the perspective of the service and or application layer of device control of resource may appear to be direct control of a local resource as represented by dotted arrow . In some embodiments control instruction as transmitted to device may be substantially similar to a control instruction that would be transmitted by a service and or application layer of device if resource were local to device . In some such embodiments device may act substantially as a conduit of control instruction passing the instruction to a controller of resource e.g. local resource controller of for execution.

In some embodiments when resource generates data in response to executing control instruction the data is transmitted from device to device in substantially the same form as generated by resource . When a service and or application layer of device receives this data the data appears to have come directly from a local resource. For example in some embodiments resource may be an electronic keyboard configured to generate musical instrument digital interface MIDI data when keys are depressed. When device is in control of resource this MIDI data may be routed through device and to device substantially unchanged from the perspective of device the electronic keyboard is owned by device . Embodiments in which a device may control a remote resource using raw instructions interpretable by the remote resource instead for example of providing an instruction in a form that must be interpreted and translated by an application executing on the owner device may improve the granularity with which a device may control a remote resource thereby allowing a fuller range of control. Similarly embodiments in which a device may receive data generated by the remote resource in a substantially raw form may improve the granularity with which the device may interpret and respond to the data.

In some embodiments the control instruction of may be provided in response to a request by an application or other process executing on device for resource or a resource similar to resource . For example an application executing on device may require or desire additional processing power during a computationally intensive operation. In some such embodiments device may respond to this requirement or desire by determining whether any remote resources such as resource may be available to service the requirement or desire e.g. via a resource management layer such as resource management layer of . If a remote resource is available device may utilize the remote resource as if it were local. In some embodiments the requesting application or process may be unaware of the origin of the resource. In another example an application executing on device may identify a specific remote resource that it wishes to use a specialized piece of laboratory equipment owned by another university . In some such embodiments a resource management layer such as resource management layer of may communicate with the owner device of the identified remote resource for control of the identified remote resource.

In device is shown as providing data representative of resource to device . Device is shown as providing credential to device . Data and credential may be transmitted between device and device over a D2D communication channel in some embodiments device may provide data and device may provide credential as part of a mutual credentialing process that may include device providing data and device providing credential as shown in . In some embodiments data and or credential may be provided to device in response to a sharing request transmitted from device to device not shown . In some embodiments a mutual credentialing process may be triggered by a sharing request transmitted by one or both of device and device . In some embodiments a sharing request may include credential data.

As discussed above in some embodiments resources local to different remote devices may be aggregated and presented as an aggregate resource. In some embodiments this aggregation occurs when the resources are of a same or similar type such that treatment as an aggregate resource is possible or suitable. For example if resource is a storage device with a capacity of 5 GB and resource is a storage device with a capacity of 3 GB resource and resource may be aggregated and represented as a single aggregate storage device with a capacity of 8 GB. illustrates the representation of an aggregation. In particular in device is expanded to show its component service layer and resource management layer . Service layer may be configured as described above for service layer of and resource management layer may be configured as described above for resource management layer of . Resource management layer is shown as providing to service layer of the device a representation of an aggregation of resource and resource as an aggregate local resource available for use by service layer . Using the storage device aggregation example from above because of representation resource and resource may appear to service layer as a single local storage device with a capacity of 8 GB.

In device is shown as providing instruction to device to control the use of resource . Instruction may be transmitted to device from device over a communication channel. In some embodiments instruction is based on a first instruction provided by a service or application layer of device the first instruction may be routed to the appropriate device e.g. device or device to which the desired resource is local. When a resource is aggregated a resource aggregation module in a resource management layer such as resource aggregation module of resource management layer of may determine to which one or more device the instruction is most properly routed based on for example the demand on various devices the priority of the requesting device among other remote devices etc. . As discussed above from the perspective of the service and or application layer of device control of resource may appear to be direct control of a local resource as represented by dotted arrow .

In device is shown as receiving sharing request from device . Sharing request may include credential data identifying device . Device may be configured as described above for device of . Device is also shown in as providing data representative of resource to device . Data may be transmitted to device from device over a D2D communication channel. In some embodiments device may perform a similar exchange of data with device over a D2D communication channel between device and device

In device is shown as receiving an instruction from device to control the use of resource . Instruction may be transmitted to device from device over a D2D communication channel. As discussed above with reference to although resource is not local to device a resource management layer included in device such as resource management layer of may provide a representation to a service and or application layer of device so that resource appears to the service and or application layer to be local to device . As such from the perspective of the service and or application layer of device control of resource may appear to be direct control of a local resource as represented by dotted arrow .

In device is shown as providing to device updated data representative of resource . In some embodiments device may send updated data regarding a local resource such as resource to one or more of its remote devices when the properties of the local resource change e.g. the capacity of a storage device after device or one of its remote devices provides instructions to control the local resource and or after device or one of its remote devices relinquishes control over the local resource. For example in some embodiments resource may include a storage device including files related to a common project between device device and device . When one or more of these project files is changed by device updated data representative of the files may be transmitted to device when device finishes changes the files or on a periodic or asynchronous basis.

In device is shown as providing credential to device . Device is shown as providing data representative of resource to device . Data and credential may be transmitted between device to device over a D2D communication channel. A sharing request may also be transmitted from device not shown and some or all of these transmission may be part of a mutual credentialing process including device providing credential to device as shown in . Credential provided by device to device may be different from credential provided by device to device for example when the credentialing protocols for resource sharing employed by device and device are different.

If resource is of a same type as resource and resource device may represent these local resources as a single aggregate resource e.g. as discussed above with reference to . Continuing with the storage device example discussed above if resource is a storage device with a capacity of 5 GB resource is a storage device with a capacity of 3 GB and resource is a storage device with capacity 6 GB resource resource and resource may be aggregated and represented as a single aggregate storage device with a capacity of 14 GB. illustrates the representation of an aggregation. In particular in device is expanded to show its component service layer and resource management layer . Resource management layer is shown as providing to service layer of the device a representation of an aggregation of resource resource and resource as an aggregate local resource available for use by service layer . Because of representation resource resource and resource may appear to service layer as a single local storage device with a capacity of 14 GB. If resource and resource were of a same type and resource were of a different type resource management layer may provide to service layer a representation of an aggregation of resource and resource as an aggregate local resource available for use by service layer

In device is shown as providing instruction to device to control the use of resource and instruction to device to control the use of resource . Instructions and may be transmitted to device and device respectively over separate D2D communication channels. Device is also shown as providing instruction from service layer to resource management layer to control the use of resource . In some embodiments these multiple instructions may be triggered by a control instruction from service layer targeted to an aggregate resource resource management layer may intercept this instruction and transmit multiple instructions to each of the devices local to the resources that made up the aggregate. As discussed above with reference to the allocation of instructions between various devices local to components of an aggregate may depend on any of a number of factors stored in a resource aggregation module and or a credential management module such as resource aggregation module and or credential management module of including the bandwidth available on various D2D communication channels the demand on the component resources etc. From the perspective of the service and or application layer of device control of resource resource and resource may appear to be direct control of a single local resource.

As illustrated in two or more devices configured for D2D resource sharing as described herein may communicate over pairwise D2D communication channels to pass credentials data representative of resources resource control instructions and other data. In some embodiments the devices may be arranged in a peer to peer network architecture. In some embodiments the devices may be arranged in a hierarchical network architecture wherein one or more master devices is voted on or predetermined to be in control of the allocation of resources to devices.

Referring now to an example resource property manifest is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments. In some embodiments resource property manifest may be a file database entry or other data set that includes data representative of one or more resources. In some embodiments resource property manifest may be stored in memory associated with local resource properties management module and may include data representative of one or more of local resources . In some embodiments resource property manifest may be stored in resource aggregation module and may include data representative of one or more resources that are not local to device but which may be available to device through D2D resource sharing as described herein. In some embodiments only the device or devices for which a resource is local may edit the resource property manifest associated with that resource in some such embodiments other devices receive read only copies of the resource property manifest or portions of or derivative data based on the resource property manifest but may not change the manifest itself.

Resource property manifest may include a number of different kinds of data about the one or more resources associated with resource property manifest . For ease of discussion of the one or more resources associated with resource manifest may be referred to as the resource. in some embodiments resource property manifest may include type data . Type data may be representative of a type of the resource for example whether the resource is a storage device a global positioning system GPS device a camera an accelerometer another sensor etc. Type data may be used by resource management layer in determining how to represent the resource to higher layers such as service layer and application layer . In some embodiments type data may be used by resource aggregation module to determine whether and how the resource may be aggregated with other resources.

In some embodiments resource property manifest may include allocation map data . Allocation map data may be representative of whether or not the resource is currently in use by arty devices which are authorized to control the resource. Allocation map data may be representative of the number of devices authorized to control the resource and or how many such devices are currently controlling or recently have controlled the resource. Allocation map data may be representative of the relative priority and or criticality of current uses of the resource. For example in some embodiments resource management module may use criticality data included in allocation map data to transmit an alert to a device currently using the resource in a critical application e.g. a time sensitive measurement of a patient in a hospital that an owner of the resource is about to terminate the sharing of the resource and or may transmit an alert to the owner of the resource .

In some embodiments resource property manifest may include stickiness data . As discussed above with reference to as used herein the stickiness of a property of a resource may indicate whether that particular property e.g. a calibration factor of a medical device or a baseline value for a sensor is subject to change when a particular device e.g. the device or a remote device ceases to control the resource. For example in some embodiments an audio recording resource may store a short recorded segment in a temporary buffer before transferring that segment to a more permanent storage location. If a first device uses the audio recording resource the buffer may be emptied when a second device begins to use the audio recording resource. It may be important therefore for devices to know which properties of resources are sticky in the sense that they will be retained by the resource across multiple device users and which ones are not so that proper precautions may be taken to save desired data or to recalibrate the device upon a new use for example .

In some embodiments resource property manifest may include sync map data . In some embodiments sync map data may be used to constrain two or more resources in a constellation to adhere to the same internal state or properties. For example a second display resource on a remote device might be set in mirror mode by an application on the remote device having access to both local and remote displays as distinct resources. By storing an indication of the mirror mode among sync map data the matching of displays may be enforced so that two constellation users may see the same content on their individual displays. In some embodiments sync map data for a particular resource may indicate that such mirror modes or other synchronization should be supported by any user of the resource. In another example one device may act on a mirrored display resource with a local input resource e.g. a touch screen and the touch action may be sent as raw input to the remote device displayed on the remote device s display resource then mirrored back to the local display device. In another example an area of RAM may be aggregated across two devices as a display frame buffer with each device displaying a complementary portion of the frame buffer on the device s local display. In such an embodiment sync map data may indicate that the content of the frame buffer should be kept in sync between the two devices.

In some embodiments the systems and techniques disclosed herein may be advantageously used in mobile device systems to allows users of the resources e.g. applications running on the mobile devices to take advantage of the dynamic availability of resources due to the migration of devices and resources in and out of the constellation. These dynamically available resources may be exposed by a resource manager such as resource management layer of directly to applications e.g. in application layer of . Systems in accordance with such embodiments may enable a computing environment in which for example applications may register a callback when a resource becomes available or when other resource related conditions occur e.g. when the communication bandwidth of the device drops below a threshold for acceptable use of a remote resource . In one example embodiment device may be a mobile computing device e.g. a phone tablet or laptop and applications running in application layer of device may be in communication with local resources . As device moves from one environment to another new resources may become available for control by device via a D2D communication channel e.g. when device enters a user s home remote resources such a local thermostat an electronic light control system and a musical instrument may all become available . When the access control setting are appropriate applications running on device may control the remote resources as if they were local. For example a music playback application running in application layer may provide a feature that allows the songs that are played to be downloaded to the remote musical instrument as well as adjust the temperature and lighting to suit the mood of the song that is being played back.

Referring now to a flow diagram is provided of an example process for enabling control of a resource local to an owner device by a remote device in accordance with various embodiments. It may be recognized that while the operations of process and the other processes described herein are arranged in a particular order and illustrated once each in various embodiments one or more of the operations may be repeated omitted or performed out of order. For illustrative purposes operations of process may be described as performed by various components of device but process and individual operations of process may be performed by any suitably configured component or combination of components of device .

Process may begin at operation in which device may establish a D2D communication channel with a remote device. In some embodiments operation may be performed by D2D communication module . In some embodiments the D2D communication channel may be a temporary channel and may be unsecured or may have a low level of security.

At operation device may determine whether a sharing request has been received from the remote device with which a D2D communication channel was established at operation . In some embodiments operation may be performed by D2D communication module . In some embodiments operation may include some or all of the operations described above with reference to . If no sharing request is received at operation the process may end.

If a sharing request is received at operation device may proceed to operation and may receive a credential from the remote device. In some embodiments the credential received at operation may be included with the sharing request identified at operation . In some embodiments operation may be performed by D2D communication module and or credential management module . In some embodiments the credential received at operation may identify the remote device. In some embodiments operation may include some or all of the operations described above with reference to and .

At operation device may determine whether the remote device is authorized to control a resource locally available to device one or more of local resources referred to as the local resource . In some embodiments operation may be performed by D2D communication module and credential management module . In some embodiments the determination of operation may be based on the credential received from the remote device at operation . In some embodiments operation may be omitted and the determination of operation may be based on other criteria for example whether the local resources are currently busy or whether device has sufficient power or bandwidth to engage in resource sharing .

If device determines at operation that the remote device is not authorized to control the local resource process may end. If device determines at operation that the remote device is authorized to control a local resource device may proceed to operation and may provide data representative of the local resource to the remote device. In some embodiments operation may be performed by D2D communication module local resource control module resource aggregation module . In some embodiments the data representative of the local resource may include data representative of current or past usage of the local resource. In some embodiments the data representative of the local resource comprises an indicator of a property of the local resource that is subject to change after the local resource is no longer controlled in accordance with instructions from the second device see e.g. the discussion of stickiness above . In some embodiments the data representative of the local resource may include some or all of the data included in an ACL or a resource property manifest such as resource property manifest of . In some embodiments operation may include some or all of the operations described above with reference to and . Process may then end.

Referring now to a flow diagram is provided of an example process for controlling a resource local to an owner device based on instructions from a remote device in accordance with various embodiments. For illustrative purposes operations of process may be described as performed by various components of device but process and individual operations of process may be performed by any suitably configured component or combination of components of device . In some embodiments process may follow process to allow a remote device to control the local resource after enabling such control according to process .

Process may begin at operation in which device may determine whether an instruction to control a resource locally available to device e.g. one or more of local resources referred to as the local resource has been received from a remote device. In some embodiments operation may be performed by D2D communication module . If device determines at operation that no instruction has been received process may end. If device determines at operation that an instruction has been received device may proceed to operation and control the local resource in accordance with the instruction. In some embodiments operation may be performed by local resource control module . In some embodiments operation may include some or all of the operations described above with reference to and .

At operation device may provide to another remote device updated data representative of the local resource. In some embodiments operation may be performed by D2D communication module local resource properties management module and resource aggregation module . This updated data may include updated data representative of properties of the local resource. For example in some embodiments in which the local resource is a printer device may provide updated information to a remote device about the level of toner remaining after another remote device has completed a print job. In some embodiments operation may use sync map data to determine how updates are handled for different resources. In some embodiments operation may include some or all of the operations described above with reference to and . Process may then end.

Referring now to a flow diagram is provided of an example process for controlling a remote resource in accordance with various embodiments. For illustrative purposes operations of process may be described as performed by various components of device but process and individual operations of process may be performed by any suitably configured component or combination of components of device . In some embodiments process may be executed by device when controlling resource of device as illustrated in .

Process may begin at operation in which device may provide a credential to a remote device to enable control of resource s available to the remove device referred to as remote resource s . In some embodiments operation may be performed by D2D communication module and credential management module . In some embodiments operation may include some or all of the operations described above with reference to and .

At operation device may receive data representative of the remote resources. In some embodiments operation may be performed by D2D communication module and resource aggregation module . In some embodiments operation may include some or all of the operations described above with reference to and .

At operation device may provide to service layer a representation of the remote resource as an available local resource. In some embodiments operation may be performed by resource aggregation module in some embodiments operation may include sorne or of the operations described above with reference to . In some embodiments the remote resource may be aggregated with additional resources local or remote to device in the representation to service layer e.g. as illustrated in . In some embodiments the remote resource may not be aggregated with additional resource s in the representation to service layer .

At operation device may transmit an instruction to the remote device to control the remote resource. In some embodiments operation may be performed by D2D communication module . In some embodiments operation may include some or all of the operations described above with reference to and . Process may then end.

Referring now to a flow diagram is provided of an example process for aggregating resources for representation to a service layer of a device in accordance with various embodiments. For illustrative purposes operations of process may be described as performed by resource aggregation module of device but process and individual operations of process may be performed by any suitably configured component or combination of components of device .

Process may begin at operation in which resource aggregation module may determine a type associated with a first resource that is a candidate for aggregation. The first resource may be local to device e.g. one or more of local resources or remote to device . In some embodiments determining a type of the first resource at operation may include identifying type data contained in a resource property manifest e.g. resource property manifest of associated with the first resource. In some embodiments determining a type of the first resource at operation may include analyzing other data such as a model name or serial number associated with the first resource. In some embodiments a remote resource may appear as an additional local resource to the resource aggregator with a virtualization proxy implemented at a lower layer for systems with virtualization mechanisms available.

At operation resource aggregation module may determine a type associated with a second resource that is a candidate for aggregation. The second resource may be local to device e.g. one or more of local resources or remote to device . Determining a type at operation may take any of the thrms described above with reference to determining a type at operation . In some embodiments different kinds of data may be used at operations and to identify the types of the first and second resources for example the type of the first resource may be identified by type data included in a resource property manifest while the type of the second resource may be identified by a model name or serial number.

At operation resource aggregation module may determine whether the type of the first resource and the type of the second resource are a same type. If no process may then end. If yes resource aggregation module may proceed to operation and provide to service layer of device a representation of an aggregate of the first and second resources. In some embodiments operation may include some or all of the operations described above with reference to . Process may then end.

Referring now to a block diagram is provided of an example computing device suitable for practicing the disclosed embodiments in accordance with various embodiments. As shown computing device includes a number of processing device s and system memory . Examples of devices that may be included in processing device s include central processing units CPUs microprocessors graphics processing units and digital signal processing units. Additionally computing system may include mass storage devices such as diskette hard drive compact disc read only memory CDROM and so forth input output devices such as display keyboard cursor control and so forth and communication interfaces such as network interface cards modems and so forth . The elements may be coupled to each other via system bus which represents one or more buses. In the case of multiple buses they may be bridged by one or more bus bridges not shown .

Each of these elements may perform its conventional functions known in the art. In particular system memory and mass storage may be employed to store a working copy and a permanent copy of the programming instructions implementing the method of any of or portions thereof herein collectively denoted as computational logic . The various components may be implemented by assembler instructions supported by processing device s or high level languages such as for example C that can be compiled into such instructions. Machine readable media included in computing device or readable by computing device may include suitable volatile or non volatile memory e.g. flash memory and or may include any suitable non volatile storage device s such as one or more hard disk drive s HDD s one or more solid state drive s one or more compact discs CDs and or one or more digital versatile discs DVDs for example.

The permanent copy of the programming instructions may be placed into permanent storage in the factory or in the field through for example a machine accessible distribution medium not shown such as a compact disc CD or through communication interface e.g. from a distribution server not shown . That is one or more distribution media having an implementation of the instructions may be employed to distribute the instructions and program various computing devices. The constitution of elements are known and accordingly will not be further described. Any one or more suitable hardware firmware or software components of computing device or any combination thereof may serve as a resource for sharing in a D2D resource sharing system in accordance with the techniques disclosed herein.

Machine readable media including non transitory machine readable media such as methods systems and devices for performing the above described techniques are illustrative examples of embodiments disclosed herein. Additionally other devices in the above described interactions may be configured to perform various disclosed techniques.

Example 1 is a method for sharing resources between devices including establishing a device to device communication channel between a first device and a second device receiving from the second device a sharing request including a credential identifying the second device providing to the second device from the first device data representative of a first resource locally available to the first device the first resource not locally available to the second device and controlling use of the first resource in accordance with an instruction transmitted to the first device from the second device.

Example 2 may include the subject matter of Example 1 and further specifies that the sharing request is triggered by a near field communication tap between the first device and the second device an infrared based ping query between the first device and the second device or a location change of the second device.

Example 3 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 1 2 and further includes prior to controlling use of the first resource in accordance with the instruction transmitted to the first device from the second device determining at the first device that the second device is authorized to control the first resource based on the credential received from the second device.

Example 4 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 1 3 and further specifies that the data representative of the first resource includes data representative of current or past usage of the first resource.

Example 5 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 1 4 and further specifies that the data representative of the first resource includes an indicator of a property of the first resource that is subject to change after the first resource is no longer controlled in accordance with an instruction from the second device.

Example 6 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 1 5 and further includes establishing a second device to device communication channel between the first device and a third device the third device different from the second device receiving from the third device a sharing request including a credential identifying the third device providing to the third device front the first device data representative of the first resource the first resource not locally available to the third device and controlling use of the first resource in accordance with an instruction transmitted to the first device from the third device.

Example 7 may include the subject matter of Example 6 and further includes sending to the second device updated data representative of the first resource after controlling use of the first resource in accordance with the instructions transmitted to the first device from the third device.

Example 8 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 1 7 and further includes providing to the second device a credential identifying the first device receiving at the first device from the second device data representative of a second resource locally available to the second device the second resource not locally available to the first device and providing to the service layer of the first device a representation of the second resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer.

Example 9 may include the subject matter of Example 8 and further specifies that providing to a service layer of the first device a representation of the second resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer includes identifying a type of the second resource based on the data representative of the second resource identifying a third resource locally available to the first device the third resource having a same type as the type of the second resource and providing to a service layer of the first device a representation of an aggregate of the second and third resources.

Example 10 may include the subject matter of Example 8 and further includes establishing a second device to device communication channel between the first device and a third device the third device different from the second device providing to the third device over the second device to device communication channel a credential identifying the first device receiving at the first device from the third device data representative of a third resource locally available to the third device the third resource not locally available to the first device and providing to a service layer of the first device a representation of the third resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer.

Example 11 may include the subject matter of Example 10 and further specifies that providing to a service layer of the first device a representation of the third resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer includes identifying a type of the second resource based on the data representative of the second resource identifying a typo of the third resource based on the data representative of the third resource and providing to a service layer of the first device a representation of an aggregate of the second and third resources.

Example 12 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 1 11 and further specifies that the first device includes a personal computing device and the second device includes a personal computing device a camera or a musical instrument.

Example 13 is one or more machine readable media including instructions that in response to execution by a processing device of a first device cause the first device to perform the method of any of Examples 1 12.

Example 14 is one or more machine readable media including instructions that in response to execution by a processing device of a first device cause the first device to establish a device to device communication channel between the first device and a second device receive from the second device a sharing request including a credential identifying the second device provide to the second device data representative of a first resource locally available to the first device the first resource not locally available to the second device and control use of the first resource in accordance with an instruction transmitted to the first device from the second device.

Example 15 may include the subject matter of Example 14 and further specifies that the sharing request is triggered by a near field communication tap between the first device and the second device an infrared based ping query between the first device and the second device or a location change of the second device.

Example 16 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 14 15 and fluffier includes instructions that in response to execution by the processing device cause the first device to prior to controlling use of the first resource in accordance with the instruction transmitted to the first device from the second device determine that the second device is authorized to control the first resource based on the credential received from the second device.

Example 17 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 14 16 and further specifies that the data representative of the first resource includes data representative of current or past usage of the first resource.

Example 18 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 14 17 and further specifies that the data representative of the first resource includes an indicator of a property of the first resource that is subject to change after the first resource is no longer controlled in accordance with an instruction from the second device.

Example 19 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 14 18 and further includes instructions that in response to execution by the processing device cause the first device to establish a second device to device communication channel between the first device and a third device the third device different from the second device receive from the third device a sharing request including a credential identifying the third device provide to the third device data representative of the first resource the first resource not locally available to the third device and control use of the first resource in accordance with an instruction transmitted to the first device from the third device.

Example 20 may include the subject matter of Example 19 and further includes instructions that in response to execution by the processing device cause the first device to send to the second device updated data representative of the first resource after controlling use of the first resource in accordance with the instructions transmitted to the first device from the third device.

Example 21 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 14 20 and further includes instructions that in response to execution by the processing device cause the first device to provide to the second device a credential identifying the first device receive from the second device data representative of a second resource locally available to the second device the second resource not locally available to the first device and provide to a service layer of the first device a representation of the second resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer.

Example 22 may include the subject matter of Example 21 and further specifies that provide to a service layer of the first device a representation of the second resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer includes idea type of the second resource based on the data representative of the second resource identify a third resource locally available to the first device the third resource having a same type as the type of the second resource and provide to ihe service layer of the first device a representation of an aggregate of the second and third resources.

Example 23 may include the subject matter of Example 21 and further includes instructions that in response to execution by the processing device cause the first device to establish a second device to device communication channel between the first device and a third device the third device different from the second device provide to the third device over the second device to device communication channel a credential identifying the first device receive from the third device data representative of a third resource locally available to the third device the third resource not locally available to the first device and provide to a service layer of the first device a representation of the third resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer.

Example 24 may include the subject matter of Example 23 and further specifies that provide to a service layer of the first device a representation of the third resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer includes identify a type of the second resource based on the data representative of the second resource identify a type of the third resource based on the data representative of the third resource and provide to the service layer of the first device a representation of an aggregate of the second and third resources.

Example 25 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 14 24 and further specifies that the first device includes a personal computing device and the second device includes a personal computing device a camera or a musical instrument.

Example 26 is an apparatus for sharing resources including means for establishing a device to device communication channel between the apparatus and a second device means for receiving from the second device a sharing request including a credential identifying the second device means for providing to the second device data representative of a first resource locally available to the first device the first resource not locally available to the second device and means for controlling use of the first resource in accordance with an instruction transmitted to the apparatus from the second device.

Example 27 may include the subject matter of Example 26 and further includes means for providing to the second device a credential identifying the apparatus means for receiving front the second device data representative of a second resource locally available to the second device the second resource not locally available to the apparatus and means for providing to a service layer of the apparatus a representation of the second resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer.

Example 28 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 26 27 and further specifies that the means for providing to a service layer of the apparatus a representation of the second resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer includes means for identifying a type of the second resource based on the data representative of the second resource means for identifying a third resource locally available to the apparatus the third resource having a same type as the type of the second resource and means for providing to the service layer of the apparatus a representation of an aggregate of the second and third resources.

Example 29 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 26 28 and further includes means for establishing a second device to device communication channel between the apparatus and a third device the third device different from the second device means for providing to the third device over the second device to device communication channel a credential identifying the apparatus means for receiving from the third device data representative of a third resource locally available to the third device the third resource not locally available to the apparatus and means for providing to a service layer of the apparatus a representation of the third resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer.

Example 30 is an apparatus for sharing resources between devices including one or more processing devices and one or more machine readable media configured with instructions that in response to execution by the one or more processing devices cause the apparatus to establish a device to device communication channel between the apparatus and a second device receive from the second device a sharing request including a credential identifying the second device provide to the second device data representative of a first resource locally available to the apparatus the first resource not locally available to the second device and control use of the first resource in accordance with an instruction transmitted to the apparatus from the second device.

Example 31 may include the subject matter of Example 30 and further specifies that the sharing request is triggered by a near field communication tap between the apparatus and the second device an infrared based ping query between the apparatus and the second device or a location change of the second device.

Example 32 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 30 31 and further specifies that the one or more machine readable further include instructions that in response to execution by the one or more processing devices cause the apparatus to prior to controlling use of the first resource in accordance with the instruction transmitted to the apparatus from the second device determine that the second device is authorized to control the first resource based on the credential received from the second device.

Example 33 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 30 32 and further specifies that the data representative of the first resource includes data representative of current or past usage of the first resource.

Example 34 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 30 33 and further specifies that the data representative of the first resource includes an indicator of a property of the first resource that is subject to change after the first resource is no longer controlled in accordance with an instruction from the second device.

Example 35 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 30 34 and further specifies that the one or more machine readable media further includes instructions that in response to execution by the one or more processing devices cause the apparatus to establish a second device to device communication channel between the apparatus and a third device the third device different from the second device receive from the third device a sharing request including a credential identifying the third device provide to the third device data representative of the first resource the first resource not locally available to the third device and control use of the first resource in accordance with an instruction transmitted to the apparatus from the third device.

Example 36 may include the subject matter of Example 35 and further specifies that the one or more machine readable media further includes instructions that in response to execution by the one or more processing devices cause the apparatus to send to the second device updated data representative of the first resource after controlling use of the first resource in accordance with the instructions transmitted to the apparatus from the third device.

Example 37 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 30 36 and further specifies that the one or more machine readable media further includes instructions that in response to execution by the one or more processing devices cause the apparatus to provide to the second device a credential identifying the apparatus receive from the second device data representative of a second resource locally available to the second device the second resource not locally available to the apparatus and provide to a service layer of the apparatus a representation of the second resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer.

Example 38 may include the subject matter of Example 37 and further specifies that provide to a service layer of the apparatus a representation of the second resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer includes identify a type of the second resource based on the data representative of the second resource identify a third resource locally available to the apparatus the third resource having a same type as the type of the second resource and provide to the service layer of the apparatus a representation of an aggregate of the second and third resources.

Example 39 may include the subject matter of Example 37 and further specifies that the one or more machine readable media further includes instructions that in response to execution by the one or more processing devices cause the apparatus to establish a second device to device communication channel between the apparatus and a third device the third device different from the second device provide to the third device over the second device to device communication channel a credential identifying the apparatus receive from the third device data representative of a third resource locally available to the third device the third resource not locally available to the apparatus and provide to a service layer of the apparatus a representation of the third resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer.

Example 40 may include the subject matter of Example 39 and further specifies that provide to a service layer of the apparatus a representation of the third resource as a local resource available for use by the service layer includes identify a type of the second resource based on the data representative of the second resource identify a type of the third resource based on the data representative of the third resource and provide to the service layer of the apparatus a representation of an aggregate of the second and third resources.

Example 41 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 30 40 and further specifies that the apparatus includes a personal computing device and the second device includes a personal computing device a camera or a musical instrument.

Example 42 is an apparatus for sharing resources including means for performing the method of any of Examples 1 12.

