---

title: Geolocation of a mobile device in the course of a law enforcement operation
abstract: A geolocation system enables law enforcement officers to geolocate a mobile phone, or target device, during the course of police business. In a consented geolocation request, an officer requests, via the geolocation system, that the user of a target device be prompted to grant the officer permission to geolocate the target device. If the user allows the request, the officer may, in turn, geolocate the target device with the geolocation system. In a surreptitious geolocation request, the officer circumvents any request for user permission to grant the officer permission to geolocate the target device. Instead, the officer utilizes the geolocation system to generate a surreptitious request package which contains the necessary legal and situational information required to geolocate the target device without the user's consent. Once a submitted request is registered, the officer may geolocate the target device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09271112&OS=09271112&RS=09271112
owner: World Emergency Network—Nevada, Ltd.
number: 09271112
owner_city: Carson City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130424
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 637 735 filed Apr. 24 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to the field of geolocating a mobile device and more specifically to expediting geolocation of the mobile device during the course of a law enforcement operation.

Police officers and other agents oftentimes need to geolocate a target mobile phone or other device during the course of their duties. Traditionally obtaining permission to geolocate a target mobile phone during the course of a law enforcement operation requires the officer to manually request the location of the target from a service provider. The service provider manually processes the request and provides the officer with the location of the target mobile device.

Oftentimes the service provider processes the request on the order of hours or days in addition to commanding a non trivial sum of money for processing the request. The time delay to process a request oftentimes negates the usefulness of locating the target mobile device for time sensitive investigations. Further the service provider s charges prohibit the agency from geolocating a mobile device for lower priority investigations.

The above and other issues are addressed by a method and computer system for geolocating a target mobile which may be provided by an agency service utilizing application programming interfaces to expedite lookup and return of a target device s location while meeting the applicable legal requirements for geolocating the target device. An embodiment of the method comprises receiving a request to locate a target device associated with a user from a monitoring device associated with an officer. The request includes properties identifying a transmitting number of the target device and the user of the target device. The request to locate the target devise is automatically processed in accordance with a set of rules governing the legality of locating the target device during the course of a law enforcement operation.

Automatically processing the request to locate the target device may comprise prompting the user of the target device to consent to the request to locate the target device. In turn a text massage prompting the user of the target device for a response may be generated. The text message indicates the request properties and is transmitted to the target device. Text messages received from the target device are parsed to determine whether the user of the target device consents to the request to locate the target device.

Automatically processing the request to locate the target device may comprise automatically generating a legal document for authorizing the request to locate the target device. Generating the legal document may comprise identifying fields in the legal document and automatically populating one or more fields with the request properties. Additionally login credentials of the officer may use used to populated one or more fields within the legal document with officer information. Any supporting legal documentation required for authorizing the officer to locate the target device may also be identified. In turn a prompt may be transmitted to the monitoring device requesting the identified supporting legal documentation.

The location requests are registered with a location interface that identifies location information for the target device. The location of the target device may then be automatically transmitted to the monitoring device.

An embodiment of the system comprises a server having one or more processors and a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer program code. When executed the computer program code causes the server to receive information in response to requests to locate a target device associated with a user from a monitoring device associated with an officer. The request includes properties identifying a transmitting number of the target device and the user of the target device. The request to locate the target devise is automatically processed in accordance with a set of rules governing the legality of locating the target device during the course of a law enforcement operation.

Automatically processing the request to locate the target device may comprise prompting the user of the target device to consent to the request to locate the target device. In turn a text massage prompting the user of the target device for a response may be generated. The text message indicates the request properties and is transmitted to the target device. Text messages received from the target device are parsed to determine whether the user of the target device consents to the request to locate the target device.

Automatically processing the request to locate the target device may comprise automatically generating a legal document for authorizing the request to locate the target device. Generating the legal document may comprise identifying fields in the legal document and automatically populating one or more fields with the request properties. Additionally login credentials of the officer may use used to populate one or more fields within the legal document with officer information. Any supporting legal documentation required for authorizing the officer to locate the target device may also be identified. In turn a prompt may be transmitted to the monitoring device requesting the identified supporting legal documentation.

The location requests are registered with a location interface that identifies location information for the target device. The location of the target device may then be automatically transmitted to the monitoring device.

The Figures FIG. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of the embodiments.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments for purposes of illustration only.

A geolocation system is provided for enabling police officers and other law enforcement agents officers to geolocate a mobile phone or other Location Based Services LBS enabled device collectively target device during the course of police business. LBS may be used to geolocate a target mobile device of a criminal suspect confidential informant fugitive or even an officer. Traditionally the geolocation process involved contacting the service provider or carrier of the mobile device such as a phone carrier or data services provider collectively communications service provider CSP by email or fax to request the location of the target device at which point the CSP reviews the request internally for approval. Responses even if approving the request could have delays measured in hours or days and come accompanied with a costly bill to the law enforcement agency.

The geolocation system described herein which may be provided by an agency supporting service may utilize application programming interfaces APIs to expedite lookup and return of a target device s location while meeting the applicable legal requirements for geolocating the target device. Depending on the type of location request the CSP laws for officer conduct agency and or due to variety of other factors the legal requirements governing the officer s ability to locate the target device may differ. Accordingly the geolocation system generates forms and automatically prompts officers to complete the applicable requirements according to a set of rules that ensure officers utilizing the system comply with best practices for geolocating a target device in the field.

One type of location request is a consented request. In a consented geolocation request the officer requests via the geolocation system that the user of the target device grants the officer permission to geolocate the target device. The user may allow or deny the officer s request. If the user allows the request the officer may in turn utilize the geolocation system to geolocate the target device. For example the officer may utilize a consented geolocation request to determine the location of a confidential informant

Another type of location request is a surreptitious request. In a surreptitious geolocation request the officer circumvents user permission to grant the officer permission to geolocate the target device. Instead the officer utilizes the geolocation system to generate a surreptitious request package which contains the necessary legal and situational information required to geolocate the target device without the user s consent. For example the officer may utilize a surreptitious geolocation request to determine the location of a prime suspect in a crime.

Once a submitted request is approved by the agency service and or the CSP the officer may then geolocate the target device. The agency service determines e.g. in real time via one or more interfaces e.g. a CSP or 3party API location information the target device and may subsequently transmit all or a portion of the collected real time data over existing channels e.g. a network back to the agency or another entity such as a mobile device of the requesting officer utilized to monitor the location of the target device. For example embodiments of the agency agency service and or other entities within the geolocation system receive the collected location data for storage and or live streaming to an officer s monitoring device and records.

Figure is a block diagram illustrating an example operating environment of an agency service for geolocating a target device according to one example embodiment. As shown the operating environment includes an agency communications service provider CSP monitoring device target device and a network with components such as the internet provider network and global positioning system GPS network .

Agency represents a collection of servers desktop notebook or tablet computers mobile telephones and related storage mediums used by respective agency personnel for executing applications or modules to communicate with and receive data from the agency service e.g. via the agency interface and other entities on the network . For example agency devices such as monitoring device may execute a web browser to access a web interface or execute a mobile or desktop application comprising one or more modules for communicating with the agency service or other entity coupled to the network to geolocate a target device . An agency may also include data telephonic and video infrastructure enabling data audio and video communicability e.g. internally and or over the network using a data network e.g. TCP IP public switched telephone network PSTN short messaging service SMS voice over internet protocol VoIP or other communication protocol.

Monitoring devices may connect to entities on the network to obtain or present data associated with one or more geolocation requests for target devices . The monitoring device may also be used to submit geolocation requests. Depending on the embodiment a monitoring device is a network capable device that can be operated within an agency or externally in the field. As referred to herein a monitoring device is a mobile or stationary device capable of connectivity e.g. wireless or wired to a network such as an agency network the internet PSTN GPS and or provider network.

The monitoring device is oftentimes a desktop computer or mobile device capable of collecting data and transmitting data e.g. wired or wirelessly over the network . Some examples of a monitoring device as a mobile device include a mobile phone tablet or notebook computer. Example embodiments of monitoring device as a mobile phone include feature phones smart phones or standard mobile phones. Accordingly a given mobile phone or other device operated as a monitoring device may not necessarily include or support all of the functionality ascribed herein to the monitoring device or geolocation system due to inherent differences in device capabilities.

The target device is oftentimes a mobile telephonic device capable of collecting data and transmitting data e.g. wirelessly over the network . Some examples of the target device as a mobile telephonic device include a mobile phone tablet or notebook computer. Example embodiments of the target device as a mobile phone include feature phones smart phones or standard mobile phones. As shown the target device includes a location module that may utilize a variety of technologies to determine a position of the target device . The capabilities of the location module executing on the target device may differ based on device capabilities. For example the location module of one target device may as best be used to determine its location based on the known location of a nearby cell tower within a provider network . Alternatively the location module executing on another target device may be able to triangulate its location based on the coordinates of nearby cell towers within the provider network and or utilizing a GPS network . In one embodiment the location module employs assisted GPS which utilizes an internet and or provider network connection to aid in determining its location using GPS network satellites. For example the location module may communicate with a server on the network e.g. operated by the CSP and or a 3Party to quickly retrieve orbital data for GPS satellites or offload received data from GPS satellites for processing at the server. Some location modules may also determine a location based on an address or location associated with a WiFi connection utilized by the target device to connect to the network . Accordingly a given mobile phone or other target device to be geolocated may not necessarily include or support all of the functionality ascribed herein to the geolocation system due to inherent differences in device capabilities.

The provider network may include servers switches and other hardware and software for implementing among other protocols and technologies worldwide interoperability for PSTN communications including land lines and 2G 3G 4G wireless protocols. The provider network is managed by one or more communication service providers CSPs that own telephone numbers for use on the PSTN and operate and service portions of the provider network . For example a portion of the provider network may be proprietary to a CSP and include hardware such as wireless data and telephonic service devices e.g. cellular towers etc. owned by the CSP that facilitate communications over the PSTN and internet . In some embodiments the provider network may also include CSP managed WiFi hotspots for providing internet service to their customers. Accordingly the provider network may include servers switches and other hardware and software for communicating over the network with CSPs and other entities to handle network traffic.

The CSP owns telephone numbers and or internet protocol IP address ranges for use on the provider network and in turn manages network traffic associated with those numbers when the corresponding devices are utilizing the provider network . Thus the provider network and CSP provide mobile devices such as the target device and or monitoring device with the capability to transmit and receive data over the PSTN and internet .

Typically a telephone number used on the provider network directs to a given mobile device VoIP device or land line device having an associated number identity characterized by automatic number identification ANI information or caller identification. VoIP phones and other IP based devices such as a modem may additionally or alternatively have an associated IP address that is leased on either a short term or long term basis from the CSP. For example a home modem may utilize a short term lease e.g. may change on modem power on off whereas a company server or VoIP device may have a long term lease e.g. does not change . The CSP may store customer information for telephone numbers and IP based devices authorized on the provider network .

Agency service represents a collection of compute devices e.g. servers and related storage mediums that are configured for performing various activities such as coordinating the geolocation of target devices and storing data in support of the agency and monitoring devices . For example the agency service may include one or more modules providing ascribed functionality to an agency via an application programming interface API or web interface collectively the agency interface . The agency service may also include infrastructure for providing audio and video communicability e.g. internally and or over the network within the monitoring interface using the public switched telephone network PSTN voice over internet protocol VoIP and video conferencing services.

In one embodiment the agency service receives requests via the agency interface from the agency or monitoring device to geolocate the target device . The officer submitting the request may include number information for the target device such as an area code e.g. 555 country code e.g. 44 and or number e.g. 403 7826 user information such as name address zip code or city and or associated CSP . In one embodiment the agency service processes the request based on a set of rules ensuring the officer complies with best practices for geolocating a target device in the field. Rules for complying with a given geolocation request may be stored at the agency service and or agency associated with the officer making the request. For example the agency service may determine whether the request is a surreptitious or consensual request and process the requests according to the different legal requirements applicable to each request type. The agency service may in turn approve the request and register the geolocation request with one or more CSPs or a 3Party Intermediary not shown that manages LBS for a number of CSPs. To register the request the agency service may for example query a CSP with number and user information received from the requesting officer along with any other associated data such as user consent and or legal forms and verify a match of a CSP record with the target device and associated user. Once the target device has been registered with the CSP the agency service may request the target device s location.

In one embodiment the CSP includes a location interface for registering location requests and determining the location of target devices . In one embodiment the location interface determines a target device s location by polling the location module of the target device for its current known location. The location interface may also utilize network devices such as wireless towers or nodes to determine the location of the target device . For example the location interface may store wireless broadcast identification information for the target device . In turn the location interface identifies the towers in range of the target device and signal strength associated with the different towers. Based on the signal strength and location of the towers the location interface triangulates an estimated location of the target device. The location interface may also utilize the GPS network to determine the distance of three or more satellites to the target device and triangulate the location of the target device .

In some embodiments the location interface utilizes multiple locating methods and combines them to produce a more accurate measurement. The location interface may also determine a margin of error e.g. 100 ft 500 ft 750 ft etc describing the accuracy of each measurement. The location interface subsequently transmits the determined location information such as coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude or other proprietary coordinates and the margin of error to the agency service . The determined location information may further include a heading and velocity of the target device .

In one embodiment the agency service communicates e.g. over the network with the CSP location interface to register location requests and geolocate target devices . In other embodiments such as in cases where the agency service does not have a direct relationship with a CSP the agency service may communicate with a 3Party Intermediary providing LBS for the CPS to register location requests and geolocate target devices . Thus the 3Party Intermediary may also include a location interface for servicing agency service requests for a variety of CPSs . Accordingly references made herein to connections between the agency service and other entities with the location interface of the CPS are not so limited and include embodiments where similar connections and processes may be carried out with a location interface of a 3Party Intermediary. Additionally in some embodiments the agency service may utilize 3Party APIs for the sending and receiving of SMS text messages. For example the agency service may send a SMS message to a target device for the user s consent to be located. Additionally for example the agency service may send a SMS message to notify a monitoring device when a given target device may be located.

In some embodiments the agency service includes a geolocation module that may be accessed via the agency interface e.g. via a web browser to process geolocation requests and present locations of target devices . The agency service may also provide functionality of the geolocation module to the monitoring device in the form of hardware and or software in order to support collection of information for geolocation requests using monitoring device software and or hardware. For example a geolocation module may execute on the monitoring device to utilize features such as a camera touch interface keyboard and or display to collect and present information for the officer. The geolocation module on the monitoring device may also format and transmit the collected data over the network such as back to the agency service e.g. via the agency interface or other entity. The agency service in turn may store the collected data locally and or perform additional processing of the data. For example a geolocation module at the agency service may verify data received from the monitoring device prior to registering a geolocation request with a CSP or accessing the location interface to determine a location of the target device. Additionally the agency service may transmit the collected data to the agency for record storage e.g. in an appliance . The geolocation module is described in more detail with reference to .

In one embodiment the agency includes an appliance for storing geolocation request data target device location history and other collected or determined information. The appliance may additionally store legal forms and or text associated with the consensual and surreptitious requests. The appliance may utilize the agency interface provided by the agency service for updating stored data at the appliance and or the agency service . For example the appliance may be periodically updated with current forms disclaimers or other legal text for consensual and surreptitious requests that are made available to the agency service .

One example embodiment of the appliance also includes its own interface not shown that enables monitoring devices to access real time and historic location data stored on the appliance for the target device . Interfaces provided by the agency service or appliance may also be accessible via a web browser for streaming or downloading data and include the same or similar options.

Additionally the appliance and agency service may communicate to intermittently update collected data and records at defined intervals or in response to notifications to download data e.g. in response to a newly received location . During the intervals or notification periods the agency service may process the data and perform any necessary actions as desired by the monitoring device until the data is transferred to the appliance . In some embodiments the agency service maintains a persistent connection with the appliance to facilitate transfer of real time location data collected about the target device .

In one embodiment the agency service insures that it and the CSP do not possess data collected from the target device beyond the time needed to facilitate transfer to the appliance . However in mission critical situations officers and other agency personnel cannot rely only on the availability of the appliance for storing and maintaining collected data. Consequently if the appliance is unable to take possession of the collected data or go offline during transfer the agency service and or the CSP may maintain possession of the collected data until the appliance is functioning. Furthermore the agency service and or CSP may determine whether checksums hashes or sizes of transferred data match the appliance s version prior to deleting stored data.

In some embodiments the agency service maintains an appliance instead of or in addition to the agency . In such cases the appliance may exist as a dedicated piece of hardware or remote storage. Alternatively embodiments of the appliance may be implemented in a cloud computing and storage stack available on the network .

The network represents the communication pathway between agencies agency service the monitor devices target devices CSP internet provider network GPS network and other entities such as GPS satellites not shown in the GPS network . In one embodiment the network includes standard communications technologies and or protocols and can include the Internet and PSTN. Oftentimes these communications technologies and or protocols carry both PSTN and Internet related data. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 2G 3G 4G mobile communications protocols worldwide interoperability for PSTN communications digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM InfiniBand PCI Express Advanced Switching etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP the file transfer protocol FTP etc. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including analog audio e.g. for last mile PSTN communications digital audio and video e.g. as a file or streaming with Real Time Streaming Protocol the hypertext markup language HTML the extensible markup language XML JavaScript VBScript FLASH the portable document format PDF etc. In addition all or some of the data exchanged over the network can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS virtual private networks VPNs Internet Protocol security IPsec etc. In another embodiment the entities on the network can use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above. For example some government agencies and the military may operate networks auxiliary to the internet and PSTN.

As used herein the term module refers to computer program instructions and or other logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules formed of executable computer program instructions are stored on a non transitory storage device loaded into memory and executed by a computer processor as one or more processes.

As used herein the terms message messaging and short messaging service SMS each comprise the breadth of messaging services and related technologies or standards used for communicating and transmitting data over the network . These technologies and services include SMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages proprietary messaging service messages such as BLACKBERRY messages BBM and the like.

The consented location module automates the process for geolocating a target device when the officer expects the user of the target device to consent to being geolocated. The consented location module may receive properties associated with the geolocation request from the officer. For example the officer may provide the transmitting number of the target device the name alias of the user and an expiration date. The expiration date specifies the time period e.g. number of days the officer is requesting to be able to locate the target device . In turn the consented location module processes the request according to a set of rules governing consensual geolocation requests. For example the user of the target device may be required to provide explicit consent before the officer may locate the target device. Additionally in some embodiments the consented location module may require the officer to confirm e.g. by consenting to terms and conditions for using the geolocation system that the user has been informed about the geolocation request process. Additional example rules may govern the maximum length of time a user may consent to a location request and whether the user must be provided an option to terminate the service at any time.

In one embodiment the user of the target device consents to a geolocation through replying affirmatively to a series of prompts such as SMS messages generated by the consented location module . The prompts may contain a number of options for the user to select e.g. by replying back as instructed . One example prompt may request the user to reply back with a Yes to approve No to deny or Help to view additional information for the geolocation request. Additionally one or more prompts may inform the user of one or more properties associated with the geolocation request that were provided by the officer such as the time period the officer is requesting to be able to locate the user s target device .

The consented location module parses SMS replies received from the target device to determine which provided option the user selected. Based on the user s selection the consented location module may generate a follow up SMS prompt that is transmitted to the target device and optionally notify e.g. via SMS a requesting monitoring device of the user s selections. For example the consented location module may generate a follow up SMS for the target device providing instructions on how to terminate the service e.g. reply back with STOP to end geolocation or receive help with the service e.g. reply back with HELP for questions . An example sequence of prompts is described in greater detail with reference to .

Once the user of the target device provides selections approving the geolocation request the consented location module registers the request with the CSP . For example the consented location module may register the transmitting number of the target device with the CSP for permitting location based lookups e.g. from the agency service over X days. In one embodiment the consented location module registers the request with a location interface of the CSP . Additionally the consented location module stores and updates the properties associated with the geolocation request at the agency service and or appliance to reflect the user s consent to being located.

The surreptitious location module automates the process for geolocating a target device absent the consent of the user of the target device. The surreptitious location module may receive properties associated with the geolocation request from the officer. For example the officer may provide a known transmitting number of the target device the name alias of the user and an expiration date. The expiration date specifies the time period e.g. number of days the officer is requesting to be able to locate the target device . In turn the consented location module processes the request according to a set of rules governing surreptitious geolocation requests. For example depending on the officer s agency state urgency of request etc. legal documentation may differ and the officer may need to submit supporting legal documentation such as warrants or court orders. Thus the surreptitious location module may modify generated legal documentation and request applicable supporting documentation based on the set of rules and the officer provided information for the geolocation request. Additionally in some embodiments the surreptitious location module may require the officer to confirm e.g. by consenting to terms and conditions for using the geolocation system that he understands the legal requirements of submitting a surreptitious geolocation request.

The surreptitious location module subsequently generates a surreptitious request form for the officer. In one embodiment the surreptitious location module retrieves a blank form from the agency appliance and or the agency service . is an example form with fields for processing a surreptitious location request according to one example embodiment.

The surreptitious location module modifies the retrieved form based on the Officer provided properties associated with the request. For example the surreptitious location module identifies the different fields in the form associated with the properties provided for the location request and automatically generates values for the fields based on the properties. Thus example form fields such as transmitting number and name alias may be automatically populated by the surreptitious location module .

Additionally in some embodiments the surreptitious location module modifies the retrieved form based on other determined information. For example an officer may be required to provide login credentials for a unique user account to access the geolocation module . The surreptitious location module may identify information about the officer based on the login credentials and in turn modify the form based on the identified officer information. The surreptitious location module may identify the officer information associated with provided login credentials at the agency appliance and or the agency service . Information identified about the officer may include the officer s name agency and or department badge number etc. Further the information identified about the officer may also include information for a supervisor or other personnel that provides oversight on the legality of location requests.

The surreptitious location module may prompt the officer to provide information for required fields in the form that are not automatically populated. For example the surreptitious location module may determine that a warrant or other court order is required and prompt the officer to indicate whether the warrant has already been issued or is in the process of being obtained. If no warrant is need the surreptitious location module may prompt the officer to provide an explanation of the circumstances.

Once the surreptitious location module has completed desired modifications of the form a completed request form is generated and displayed to the officer for approval. In embodiments where the officer specified that a warrant has been obtained the surreptitious location module may additionally prompt the officer to submit a copy of the document with the completed request form. A warrant may be submitted through the uploading of the document or image e.g. of the warrant as an attachment to the request form. For example the surreptitious location module may prompt the officer to identify the location of the document on the monitoring device the appliance or with a 3party e.g. an electronic system of the court capture images of the document e.g. using a camera of a mobile phone or scanner or indicate that the document will be provide via fax or other means e.g. email . The surreptitious location module generates a request package including the approved form request properties and any supporting documents for the geolocation request that may be stored at the agency appliance and or agency service for registration with the CSP .

If the officer indicated that a warrant or other supporting document for a location request will be provide via fax or other means e.g. email the surreptitious location module generates a unique code e.g. bar code or QR code that when included with the supporting documents identifies the associated request. In some embodiments the surreptitious location module generates a fax cover sheet including the unique code and instructions e.g. fax number attention to etc. indicating where the supporting documents should be faxed. In one embodiment the surreptitious location module may examine supporting documents received at the agency service and or appliance e.g. via fax for unique codes associated with outstanding surreptitious request packages. Once the supporting documentation is identified for an outstanding request the surreptitious location module stores the completed request package for registration with the CSP .

In one embodiment completed request packages are automatically approved e.g. by the agency service for registration with the CSP . In one embodiment the surreptitious location module registers the request with a location interface of the CSP . For example the surreptitious location module may register the transmitting number of the target device with the CSP for permitting location based lookups e.g. from the agency service over X number of days.

In some embodiments completed request packages are verified for example by the agency service a 3party and or the supervisor of the officer placing the request prior to registration with the CSP . Verifications may also be performed in instances where information for the target device is incomplete or is confirmed prior to registering a request. For example a CSP subscriber list may be queried based on the name aliases transmitting number location etc. provided by the officer for the user the target device . The agency service may in turn compare query results with the information provided by the officer to verify the relationship between a user and a target device . If a completed request package requires review by personnel the surreptitious request module may notify the appropriate party when a completed request package is pending and provide the request package to the party. Once the necessary parties have approved a generated request package a location request for the indicated target device is registered with the CSP . Additionally generated request packages in which a geolocation request is registered with the CSP may be stored such that an agency and or CSP may audit the request and associated package.

The location request module receives officer requests to locate a target device registered with a CSP and in turn interfaces with the location interface of the CSP to request the location of the target device . Each time a location fix is returned from the CSP the location request module stores the location and associated request information in its database including but not limited to the Officer submitting the location request Target Device Number Name Alias Time Date of Lookup CSP Name Latitude and Longitude Radius Margin of Error Velocity Heading and Location Determination Method. The location request module may store the location and associated request information at the agency service and or appliance .

Prior to interfacing with the location interface to retrieve the target device s location the location request module may verify that the authorized time period for locating the target device has not expired or for consensual requests that the agency service has not received a STOP response from the user of the target device .

In one embodiment the location request module verifies the expiration dates of all outstanding registered target devices against the current date. When the location request module identifies a registered target device having an expiration date later than the current date the agency service may transmit a STOP command to the CSP thus preventing future location requests via the location interface . In the case of registered consensual geolocation requests the location request module may transmit a notification e.g. and SMS to the target device and any monitoring device that initiated the geolocation request or requested a location for the target device that the target device s location may no longer be requested. For surreptitious geolocation requests only monitoring devices may be notified.

Should the officer subsequently request to update the location for an expired target device the location request module may redirect the officer to the consensual or surreptitious location module to resubmit the request. In one embodiment the location request module transmits previous request information along with the redirection such that applicable properties and or fields are provided and filled automatically for the officer.

The monitoring dashboard generates the various interfaces which the officer interacts with to perform location requests for registered target device and maps the locations of target devices for display. In one embodiment the monitoring dashboard presents a login interface for receiving login credentials. The monitoring dashboard authenticates the credentials and generates an interface displaying the target devices registered with the CSP that the officer may request the location of. In one embodiment the display comprises a table listing information such as the target device number user name alias date of last location request expiration date and option to locate the target device. The table may further include a tab the officer may select to locate a new target device.

The monitoring dashboard maps the stored locations of selected target devices for display e.g. in response to officer selection of locate . If no historic location information is available the monitoring dashboard may interface with the location request module to receive a current location. The monitoring dashboard may also provide the officer with the option to refresh the target devices current location. The monitoring dashboard marks retrieved locations on a map which may include controls for cardinal directions and zoom level. Retrieved locations may be marked on the map based on coordinates such as latitude and longitude or other proprietary system. The monitoring dashboard may reverse geocode received coordinates to determine and indicate a nearest address for the marked location. For example the monitoring dashboard may determine that the coordinates for the mark are near 1500 Market Street . In one embodiment a reverse geocoding service is used to determine nearest address for the marked location. The marked location on the map may include a dot and associated margin of error.

Each marked location may include associated information about the location request. For example the monitoring dashboard may display the nearest address the CSP which handled the request and method e.g. reported tower triangulation and or GPS used to determine the location of the target device. In some embodiments the CSP provides velocity and heading for target device which may also be indicated on the map.

In some embodiments the monitoring dashboard marks the locations of multiple target devices within the map display area . For example the officer may select an option not shown to view the table e.g. that of of available registered targets. Each target in the table may further include an associated Show or Hide button that reveals or removes their reported locations from the map. In one embodiment clicking Show will generate a new location request to the CSP for the target s current location. In another embodiment Show will use the last reported location of the target device. Target device markers may be color coded or numbered to distinguish the locations of difference target devices. In some embodiments the history display for multiple targets includes tabs or other suitable interface elements for selection refreshing and viewing of the location history for a given target device.

Additionally the monitoring dashboard may allow the officer to mark additional e.g. past current locations for a target device and or multiple target devices over a given time period. The markers may be uniformly color coded or otherwise visually distinct for a given target device to provide visual consistency across the target s mapped locations and descriptively tagged e.g. with a time stamp or subject name . Furthermore for the locations of a given target that were frequently updated e.g. on the order of seconds minutes or hours the monitoring dashboard may visually link consecutive marks e.g. by a connecting line that may indicate direction on the map. Statistics relating to the target devices travel e.g. average speed time spent moving stationary etc. between two locations may also be determined by the monitoring dashboard and displayed graphically and or numerically.

The monitoring dashboard may further configure recurring location requests which cause the location request module to automatically receive the current location of one or more target device . After a target device has been registered with the CSP the monitoring dashboard may provide the officer with the option to specify a recurring location request. The monitoring dashboard prompts the officer to specify a desired frequency and time to request the automatic update. For example the officer may specify that the location of a given target devices is refreshed at 7 00 am every day every hour from 7 am 8 pm on weekdays etc. An ending time for the recurring location requests may also be specified but if not new locations will not be retrieved after the expiration date or target device opt out of the registered request itself. Similar to a manual location request the monitoring device submits target device information to the location request module which retrieves the current location of the target device.

If the user of the target device will be consenting to the location request the agency service processes the request according to a set of rules that legally prompt the user of the target device for consent. For example the agency service may generate a SMS message prompting the user of the target device to consent to the location request via a SMS reply. The user s affirmative reply completes the request.

If the user of the target device will not be consenting to the location request i.e. a surreptitious location request the agency service processes the request according to a set of rules that generate legal documentation ensuring that the officer complies with laws applicable to completing the request. Additionally the agency service may determine any supporting legal documents that the officer should provide to complete the request and prompts the officer to provide the supporting documentation.

Completed geolocation requests are registered with the CSP which in turn enables the agency service to retrieve the target device s location. To retrieve the target device s location the agency service submits target device information to the CSP to geolocate the target device.

The agency service subsequently receives location information for the target device and provides the location information to the target device . In one embodiment the agency service provides the location information to the target device via a web browser over the internet. For example the agency service may mark the received location of the target device on a map which is rendered by the browser. In another embodiment the agency service provides the location information to a geolocation module executing on the target device. The geolocation module in turn marks the received location of the target device on the map and renders the marked map for display.

To process A the geolocation request the agency service transmits the properties of the location request and a prompt for the user to approve or deny the location request to the target device . The user of the target device in turn consents to a geolocation request by approving the location request through replying affirmatively to the prompt or series of prompts such as SMS messages. Alternatively the user of the target device may deny the location request in the SMS reply or simply not reply at all.

The agency service parses received SMS replies to determine whether the request is approved or denied. In either instance the agency service may notify the officer e.g. via SMS message transmitted to the monitoring device of the response received from the target device . In cases where the request is denied the agency service ends the geolocation process.

If the geolocation request is approved the agency service registers the geolocation request with the CSP . In response to registering the geolocation request with the CSP which enables the agency service to retrieve the location of the target device the agency service may notify the target device and the officer s monitoring device that registration is complete and the agency service may be used locate the target device.

The agency service generates an interface for the officer to provide properties of the target device and target device user for the geolocation request. The officer submits the request and the agency service generates a prompt inviting the target device user to consent to the geolocation request. The user may reply NO to not participate or reply YES to enable the officer to locate the target device . After the user has replied YES the user may reply STOP at a later date to unregister the target device from being located.

The user of the target device may also reply HELP to receive additional information from the agency service about the geolocation service. In one embodiment the agency service transmits a reminder to the target device every so many days to prompt the user whether they want to continue with the service.

In one embodiment to process B the surreptitious geolocation request the agency service generates a surreptitious request form. The agency service modifies the retrieved form based on the officer provided properties associated with the request for the target device and user officer information and agency policy to meet legal requirements. For example the agency service may identify the different fields in the form and automatically generates values for the fields based on the properties officer information and agency policy. Thus example form fields such as transmitting number and name alias of the target device Officer and supervisor contact information and whether a warrant or court order is required may be automatically populated.

The generated form is displayed to the officer on the monitoring device . The agency service prompts the officer to complete the necessary fields of the request form. If the agency service determines that a warrant or court order is required the agency service prompts the officer to provide supporting documentation B using the monitoring device. In some embodiments the agency service may receiver supporting documentation from a source other than the monitoring device . In such cases the agency service may generate a unique code such as a bar code or quick response QR code that is provided to the monitoring device . The officer or another party may in turn utilize the unique code to submit supporting documents B to the agency service in association with the request.

The agency service verifies completed request forms A and supporting documents B for the geolocation request and generates a surreptitious location request package including the necessary forms and documentation. In some embodiments the request package is transmitted to the agency CSP or other entity for approval or auditing. In other embodiments complete requests package may be automatically approved.

Once a surreptitious request package is complete the agency service registers the geolocation request with the CSP and notifies the monitoring device of the registration .

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the disclosure which is set forth in the following claims.

