---

title: Apparatus, method and computer program for spatially representing a digital map section
abstract: A navigation apparatus for spatially representing a digital map section around a geographical position on the earth's surface on the basis of digital geodata, wherein the digital geodata have height information, having a first input interface for the digital geodata; a second input interface for coordinates of the geographical position; a third input interface for a perspective stipulation variable corresponding to a desired viewing direction of the position; a processor module which is coupled to the first, second and third input interfaces; and an output interface coupled to the processor module and intended to output output data corresponding to the projection of the geodata which can be visually perceived in different ways and corresponds to the height information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09500496&OS=09500496&RS=09500496
owner: Volkswagen AG
number: 09500496
owner_city: Wolfsburg
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130724
---
This patent application is a U.S. National Phase of International Patent Application No. PCT EP2013 065654 filed 24 Jul. 2013 which claims priority to German Patent Application Nos. 10 2012 021 193.7 filed 30 Oct. 2012 and 10 2012 023 481.3 filed 30 Nov. 2012 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Illustrative embodiments relate to a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail around a geographical position on the earth s surface on the basis of digital geodata wherein the digital geodata have height information.

Navigation apparatuses for displaying journey or flight routes are known. Such navigation apparatuses generally comprise a display apparatus that can be used to represent a detail from a map or road map on the basis of digital geodata or topographical data. Usually the display essentially shows the course of the roads and paths within the presented map detail and also features of the surroundings such as outlines of adjoining buildings localities or wooded areas. Conventionally three dimensional geodata can be represented in two dimensions using navigation systems but known representations of this kind do not give the impression of spatial plasticity.

There is therefore a need to provide a navigation apparatus having an improved display that provides the user with a fully fledged spatially realistic perception of the displayed map section.

According to at least one disclosed embodiment a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail around a geographical position on the earth s surface on the basis of digital geodata is provided. In this case the digital geodata or topographical data have not only two dimensional coordinates or position statements but additionally also height information. According to exemplary embodiments the navigation apparatus comprises a first input interface for the digital geodata a second input interface for coordinates or position statements for the geographical position and a third input interface for a perspective stipulation variable that corresponds to a desired viewing direction to the position. In addition the navigation apparatus comprises a processor module that is coupled to the first second and third input interfaces. In this case the processor module is set up or customized on the basis of the perspective stipulation variable and the geographical position to ascertain or compute a coordinate transformation of the geodata that corresponds to the desired viewing direction. In addition the processor module is set up or customized to associate different visual perception values with the geodata for different topological height values to obtain a visually differently perceptible or notionally plastic projection of the geodata that corresponds to the height information. In addition the navigation apparatus comprises an output interface coupled to the processor module for outputting output data that correspond to the visually differently perceptible projection of the geodata that corresponds to the height information.

In other words the processor module may be designed for example by means of suitable programming and or electrical connection to take the input data obtained via the first second and third input interfaces as a basis for altering or complementing the digital geodata such that spatial plasticity that is perceptible to a viewer of a display is obtained for an electronic navigation map that is based on the output data.

According to exemplary embodiments the first input interface may be implemented for example as an access device for accessing an electronic storage medium particularly a CD ROM DVD ROM or hard disk memory that stores the digital geodata. The second input interface can be used to read in the coordinates of the geographical position of interest. In this case the geographical position relates to a current position of a vehicle in which the navigation apparatus may be embedded for example. In this case the geographical position as a current vehicle position can be ascertained by means of a GPS device GPS Global Positioning System for example and transferred to the processor module via the second input interface. The geographical position may alternatively be a desired destination position specified by the user. The third input interface can be used by the user to input a desired viewing direction or a desired virtual viewing height that is to say to stipulate a perspective from which the user wishes to view the geographical position on the electronic or digital map. It is thus possible for the user to stipulate that he wishes to view roads and the surroundings thereof from a desired virtual height for example 100 m above the vehicle. On the basis of the stipulated perspective and the geographical position the processor module ascertains a coordinate transformation or projection for the digital geodata that corresponds to the desired viewing direction. In this case the digital geodata can be converted into a notionally perspective 2D or 3D view depending on the format of the original digital geodata by the processor module using image reproduction techniques through scaling rotation and displacement. In addition the processor module associates different visual perception values for different topological height values with the geodata transformed or projected on the basis of the stipulated perspective. In this way the output data that code a visually differently perceptible projection of the geodata that corresponds to the height information are obtained. The output data obtained in this manner can be output by an output interface to a display apparatus for displaying the edited geodata in a notionally plastic map.

The cited navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail can be used to provide a user with a plastic representation of the roads and buildings surrounding him and of the terrain relief surrounding him on a display apparatus particularly on a navigation display as a result of which the user is able to assess his surroundings in an improved manner. Such a representation is useful particularly with a vehicle that is traveling at high speed or when visual conditions are poor.

According to some exemplary embodiments a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail can involve the digital geodata having two dimensional geodata plus associated height values. These may be what are known as 2 D or 2.5D data for which every point in the represented map section has a height stated in addition to two dimensional x and y or length and width coordinates. The 2.5D representation is particularly suitable for providing a perspective or plastic virtual 3D map representation of the map detail. However vertical walls and overhangs cannot be modeled in this way. In the case of 2 D geodata the processor module may be set up or customized on the basis of the perspective stipulation variable that is to say the virtual height statement for example and the geographical position to ascertain a two dimensional coordinate transformation or projection for the two dimensional geodata that corresponds to the desired viewing direction and to associate different visual perception values to the two dimensional geodata for different topographical height values which perception values result in the plastic viewing effect despite a representation of the transformed geodata that is still two dimensional.

According to some exemplary embodiments the digital geodata can also be present in genuinely three dimensional form i.e. with three dimensional x y and z coordinates. In such cases the navigation apparatus may additionally also have a fourth input interface for at least one light source stipulation variable that corresponds to a desired virtual light source. In such cases the processor module may be set up or customized on the basis of the perspective stipulation variable and the geographical position to ascertain a three dimensional coordinate transformation or projection of the geodata that corresponds to the desired viewing direction. In addition the processor module may be set up or customized to associate different visual perception values with the three dimensional geodata for different topographical or topological height values and to associate different light and shade regions with the resultant three dimensional projection of the geodata on the basis of the light source stipulation variable.

The fourth input interface of the navigation apparatus can be used to read in input data that model a virtual light source. In this case these input data are represented as a light source stipulation variable for example a vector. The light source stipulation variable can comprise statements about the height the angle and or the direction of the light source relative to the geographical position. A combination of the variables obtained via the four input interfaces particularly the height information the perspective stipulation variable predetermined visual perception values for the plasticity and the light source stipulation variable allows a fully fledged spatially realistic perception to be produced for the user.

Optionally a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail according to one exemplary embodiment can have the processor module designed or set up to provide for a viewing direction that corresponds to an observation point behind and above the geographical position a virtual horizon region in a region of the digital map detail that becomes free as a result of the coordinate transformation or the perspective tilt of the original geodata in a display region of the geodata. This is intended to be understood to mean a display region that is obtained as a result of tilting or rotation corresponding to the coordinate transformation of the original geodata from a pure plan view. A pure plan view particularly of two dimensional geodata does not allow a notionally plastic representation. According to exemplary embodiments the geodata are therefore tilted or rotated e.g. by a central projection. The tilting then results in a freed image region that is no longer required for displaying the tilted data. This image region can therefore be provided with a horizon region for example by means of corresponding coloring to enhance the plastic impression. By providing a horizon region in the digital map detail it is possible to achieve a natural and realistic representation of the horizon that conveys a visual appearance of a curvature of the earth.

To produce the plastic impression a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of the digital map detail according to one exemplary embodiment can have the processor module customized or set up to associate a first digital color code with the digital geodata for a first topological height value and to associate a second digital color code with the digital geodata for a second possibly adjacent height value the second digital color code may differ from the first digital color code only slightly. Hence different color codes can be provided as visual perception values for different topological height values which different color codes in combination with the stipulated perspective stipulation variable produce a perceptible plasticity for a navigation map. In this case color codes that are associated with adjacent discrete height values can according to exemplary embodiments differ only slightly to obtain a soft transition between adjacent height values. Thus it becomes possible to convey the overall impression of a sometimes only two dimensional navigation map with height differences without the complex technical implementation of an actual three dimensional height model. A combination of the color gradations stipulated by the color code for the representation of the various topological heights and if need be with the light source stipulation variable additionally allows a light and shade interaction to be produced on height models and 3D building models which conveys a spatially realistic perception of the navigation map.

The color code used may be an RGB color space for example which simulates the color perceptions as an additive color space by means of additive mixing of three primary colors red green and blue. Other color codes such as the CMYK color model can likewise be used for the color representation of different height values.

It is also possible to use textures defined by means of a texture code i.e. images or patterns that are on the surface of the objects to be mapped. In this case a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail according to one exemplary embodiment can have the processor module customized or set up to associate a first digital texture code with the digital geodata for a first height value and to associate a second digital texture code with the digital geodata for a second height value. The use of different textures for representing different topological height values is particularly advantageous for users with a color weakness.

Since the computation of the visual perception values for different topological height values by the processor module can result in a high level of computation complexity it is possible according to some exemplary embodiments to use statically defined lookup tables that store digital visual perception values that correspond to different height values. It is therefore optionally possible for a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail according to one exemplary embodiment to have an electronic memory area with a lookup table stored therein that stores digital visual perception values that correspond to different height values.

The static storage of visual perception values that correspond to different height values means that complex computations and accordingly a high level of memory consumption are avoided in the course of ascertaining the visually differently perceptible projection of the geodata that corresponds to the height information. Use of lookup tables is found to be particularly advantageous particularly in the case of quickly changing surroundings for example at high speed of travel when the map detail needs to be updated quickly.

Optionally a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail according to one exemplary embodiment can have the lookup table storing color codes that correspond to different height values wherein an association for a day representation of the digital map detail with two dimensional or 2.5D geodata can be made according to the following association of RGB values with topological height values 

For example the height statement can involve metric statements such as mm cm dm m or km. Other parameters such as yards miles etc. are likewise conceivable. In this case the value 50 50 means that the corresponding height value can be between 0 and 100 units of height. Accordingly 100 50 means that the corresponding height value can be between 50 and 150 units of height etc. The color values can be represented as unsigned 8 bit values merely by way of example. In each case the statement 30 means that the corresponding color value can differ from the indicated mean value by up to 30 of the mean color value in an upward or downward direction. Optionally the color values each differ from the indicated mean value by less than 20 and may even differ by less than 10 of the mean color value in an upward or downward direction.

Optionally a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail according to one exemplary embodiment can have the lookup table storing color codes that correspond to different height values so that an association for a night representation of the digital map detail using two dimensional geodata is made according to the following association of RGB values with topological height values 

Optionally a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail according to one exemplary embodiment can have the lookup table storing color codes that correspond to different height values with an association for a day representation of the digital map detail using three dimensional geodata being made according to the following association of RGB values with topological height values 

Optionally a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail according to one exemplary embodiment can have the lookup table storing color codes that correspond to different height values with an association for a night representation of the digital map detail using three dimensional geodata being made according to the following association of RGB values with topological height values 

In other words such lookup tables provide parameterization for the topological heights taking account of a day night representation of the digital map detail. According to some exemplary embodiments the height color associations defined by means of the lookup tables can be made available to a software implemented and or hardware implemented graphics processor for example within the context of what is known as a programming interface Application Programming Interface API .

In the case of all of the preceding height color associations it can be seen that the color codes RGB values that are associated with the adjacent height values differ from one another to such a small extent that the viewer is provided with a fluent color characteristic impression. According to some exemplary embodiments individual color values e.g. R G B values of adjacent height values which can differ by up to 1000 units of height differ from one another by no more than 30 . That is to say that 0.7

Optionally a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail according to one exemplary embodiment can have the desired viewer perspective adjusted by means of an altered or alterable perspective stipulation variable. The perspective stipulation variable may thus be adjustable for example using a man machine interface of the navigation apparatus. Optionally the perspective stipulation variable can correspond to a virtual height above the earth s surface that can be used to set a viewing angle between the viewing direction and the earth s surface. In other words the perspective stipulation variable can be modeled as a zoom level of a virtual camera arranged in the three dimensional space the camera angle being stipulated as the image angle of the camera by or by means of the viewing angle.

Optionally a navigation apparatus for the three dimensional representation of a digital map detail according to one exemplary embodiment can have in the electronic memory area a further lookup table stored therein that stores viewing angles that correspond to different height values according to the following table 

In this case too the lookup table can be used to provide a defined height angle association according to some exemplary embodiments for a software implemented and or hardware implemented graphics processor for example within the context of what is known as a programming interface Application Programming Interface API such as OpenGL Open Graphics Library which is a specification for a platform independent and programming language independent programming interface for developing 2D and 3D computer graphics. The statement 10 in the table above means in each case that the corresponding viewing angle can differ from the stated mean value by up to 10 of the mean angle value in an upward or downward direction. Optionally the viewing angles each differ from the indicated mean value by less than 5 and may even differ by less than 2 of the mean angle value in an upward or downward direction.

Hence it becomes possible to define a perspective view of a map detail at a stipulated by the user viewing angle relative to the earth. The viewing angle can be increased to present the map detail from further above as a result of which a larger area map detail is presented. The increased viewing angle when a larger area map detail is presented can improve comprehension of the surroundings around the geographical position for the user.

A vehicle is also provided that comprises a navigation apparatus for the spatial representation of a digital map detail around a geographical position on the earth s surface on the basis of digital geodata according to one exemplary embodiment wherein the geographical position represents a current or a desired vehicle position.

According to a further disclosed embodiment a method for the spatial representation of a digital map detail around a geographical position on the earth s surface on the basis of digital geodata is provided wherein the digital geodata also comprise height information. The method has the following steps 

As has already been explained in connection with the navigation apparatus a navigation method according to one exemplary embodiment can also provide a user with a plastic representation of the roads and buildings surrounding him and of the terrain relief surrounding him on a display apparatus particularly on a navigation display which allows the driver to assess his surroundings in an improved manner. Such a representation is useful particularly when the vehicle is traveling at high speed or when visual conditions are poor.

In addition a computer program having a program code that is suitable for performing a method according to one exemplary embodiment when the computer program is executed on a programmable hardware component may optionally be provided.

Exemplary embodiments provide a fully fledged spatial height representation on a navigation map that conveys a spatial realistic perception through a combination of height model color gradation and light influence. In this case parameterization of viewing angles be means of viewing heights in other words parameterization of camera angles by means of zoom levels the color gradations for the representation of the various topological heights and also the light sources for producing light and shade interaction on height models and three dimensional objects decides on the spatially realistic perception of the navigation map.

In the description of the enclosed illustrations that follows identical reference symbols denote identical or comparable components. In addition synoptic reference symbols are used for components and objects that occur repeatedly in one exemplary embodiment or in an illustration but are described together in respect of one or more features. Components or objects that are described using identical or synoptic reference symbols can be embodied identically or else differently as appropriate in respect of single multiple or all features for example in respect of their dimensions unless the description explicitly or implicitly reveals otherwise.

The navigation apparatus comprises a first input interface that is used to obtain digital geodata that is to say information that relates to towns or regions on the earth. In particular the first input interface is also used to read in height information or values for the region of the earth s surface that is represented in the digital map detail. According to exemplary embodiments the digital geodata are thus at least what are known as 2 D or 2.5D data. In comparison with pure 2D data where every point of an object in question requires two numerical statements for its position 2 D has the third coordinate i.e. the height stored only as an attribute that is to say not in a spatial structure. Typical examples of 2 D structures are for example right angled coordinates plus a metric scalar e.g. height as an attribute for the point or geographical latitude longitude plus an arbitrary attribute e.g. slope of terrain gravitational force vegetation height etc. . While 2D involves point data on a flat or curved surface it is possible to use 2 D data to construct a virtual spatial model with the height e.g. a digital terrain model. The height information may naturally also be part of a true 3D model i.e. 3D geodata. In contrast to 2 D a true 3D model also allows spatial correlations of all attributes or sectional methods for lines and surfaces in space. Examples of the latter are insolation as a function of slope gradient and direction or the intersection of geological layers with the terrain. For example the first input interface may be embodied as a reading drive for a CD ROM that contains the digital 2 D or 3D geodata.

A second input interface of the navigation apparatus can be used to read coordinates e.g. latitude longitude for the geographical position for example for the current vehicle position into the navigation system. For example the second input interface may be embodied as a communication interface with a GPS locating device not shown for ascertaining the current vehicle position.

A third input interface of the navigation apparatus can be used for the input of a desired viewing direction or desired viewing height by the user to stipulate a perspective from which the user wishes to view the geographical position on a display apparatus. Thus the user can stipulate that he wishes to view the roads and the surroundings from a desired virtual height for example 100 m above the vehicle or the earth s surface. In some exemplary embodiments the virtual viewing point may be not just above but constantly also behind the vehicle position. The desired viewing height can then be converted into a viewing angle that is understood by a rendering program for example.

A fourth input interface of the navigation apparatus can optionally be used to read in further input data that model a virtual light source. In this case these input data are represented as at least one light source stipulation variable for example a vector. The light source stipulation variable can comprise statements about the height the angle the intensity and or the direction of the light source relative to the geographical position that is to be displayed.

In addition the navigation apparatus comprises a processor module that can electronically process the data that are input via the four input interfaces . On the basis of the perspective stipulated by means of the perspective stipulation variable and the geographical position the processor module can ascertain a coordinate transformation or projection of the digital 2D or 3D geodata that corresponds to the desired viewing direction. In this case the digital geodata can be converted into a notionally perspective virtual 3D or 3D view for example by means of a central projection by the processor module using image reproduction techniques through scaling rotation and displacement. This is mapping that maps points in the three dimensional space onto points in a given plane. To enhance the resultant perspective or plastic effect it is additionally possible for the processor module to associate different visual perception values such as different colors for different topological height values of the digital 2.5D or 3D geodata with the geodata transformed on the basis of the stipulated perspective. In this case it is possible to use special predefined color tables for example that define a soft or fluent color characteristic between adjacent discrete height values. In this way processor output data that code a visually differently perceptible perspective projection of the geodata that corresponds to the height information are obtained. The output data obtained in this manner are output to a display apparatus of the navigation apparatus via an output interface .

After the method starts in step S the digital 2.5D or 3D geodata are first of all read in via the first input interface of the navigation apparatus in step S. In step S the coordinates of the geographical position are read in via the second input interface . For this steps S and S can be performed sequentially or else in parallel. In step S the third input interface is used to read in at least one perspective stipulation variable that corresponds to a desired viewing direction to the geographical position. In an exemplary embodiment the perspective stipulation variable is a viewing height that is input by the user. The viewing height indicates the virtual height from which the user wishes to view the surroundings around the geographical position. In other words the viewing height corresponds to a zoom level of a virtual camera that is in the space the lower the viewing height the greater the zoom or magnification level. For example the zoom level can be input using input means not shown of the navigation apparatus . It is conceivable for an implementation to involve the use of a rotary switch or the use of control panels on a touchscreen that the user can use to set the zoom level. Direct input of numerical values for example using a keypad and or a touchscreen are likewise possible. In step S on the basis of the perspective stipulation variable and the geographical position a coordinate transformation or projection of the 2D or 3D geodata that corresponds to the desired viewing direction is ascertained. In step S different visual perception values e.g. colors textures shading etc. are associated with different topographical height values in the geodata to obtain a visually differently perceptible transformation or projection of the geodata that corresponds to the height information. In step S the processor module outputs resultant output data which correspond to the visually differently perceptible projection of the geodata that corresponds to the different height information to the display apparatus to obtain a graphical display of the edited geodata.

In the case of 2D or 2 D geodata as input data a predetermined viewing angle i.e. a camera angle of 30 10 for example can be stipulated in step S by means of all the zoom levels. In the case of 3D geodata as input data different viewing angles can be taken into account on the basis of different zoom levels as will be explained further on in conjunction with .

The first or left hand column of the day representation contains various height values in a stipulated unit of height. This may be a metric unit such as m or km or else Anglo American units of measurement for example yards or miles. The second column of the lookup table in shows colored reproductions of the RGB color codes associated with the respective height values . The third fourth and fifth columns indicate the red green and blue values respectively of the color code used as RGB values. The last column contains a transparency value A value . The RGB values and the transparency value are indicated as integer values in the range between 0 and 255 corresponding to exemplary 8 bit coding.

Accordingly the first or left hand column of the night representation contains various height values of the unit of height. The second column of the lookup table in shows colored reproductions of the RGB color codes associated with the respective height values . The third fourth and fifth columns indicate the red green and blue values respectively of the color code used as RGB values. The last column again contains a transparency value A value .

The individual color values R G B can each differ from the indicated mean value by up to 30 of the mean color value shown in the tables in an upward or downward direction. Optionally the R G B color values even differ from the indicated mean value by less than 20 and may even differ by less than 10 of the mean color value in an upward or downward direction in each case. The height differences between adjacent height values are between 10 and 1000 units of height in this case.

In the case of the height color associations shown in it can be seen that color codes RGB values that are associated with adjacent height values differ from one another to such a small extent that the viewer is provided with a fluent color characteristic impression. According to some exemplary embodiments single color values e.g. R G B values for adjacent height values also differ from one another by no more than 30 . That is to say that 0.7

If the digital geodata are present as true 3D geodata various topological height values can be parameterized by using accordingly customized lookup tables as shown in . In this case too differently distinguished color gradations are used for different height values on the basis of the day or night representation.

The first or left hand column of the 3D day representation again contains various height values in a stipulated unit of height. The second column of the lookup table in shows colored reproductions of the RGB color codes associated with the respective height values . The third fourth and fifth columns indicate the red green and blue values respectively of the color code used as RGB values. The last column contains a transparency value A value . The RGB values and the transparency value are indicated as once again integer values in a range between 0 and 255 corresponding to exemplary 8 bit coding.

Accordingly the first or left hand column of the 3D night representation contains fewer height values than in the 3D day representation . The second column of the lookup table in shows colored reproductions of the RGB color codes associated with the respective height values . The third fourth and fifth columns indicate the red green and blue values respectively of the color code used as RGB values. The last column again contains a transparency value A value which is at the maximum so as also to display the road network.

As in the case of 2D or 2 D geodata the color characteristic for true 3D geodata is also fluent between adjacent height values so that no hard edges arise on the navigation map at the transition between adjacent regions. In this case too single color values e.g. R G B values for adjacent height values differ from one another optionally by no more than 30 . That is to say that 0.7

In addition to the color gradations for representing the various topological heights in the case of 3D geodata it is possible to parameterize the viewing direction or the camera angle by means of zoom levels and take account of a virtual light source for producing light and shade interaction. This is shown schematically in which presents a virtual light source and objects lit thereby. Depending on where the light source is situated locations of light and shade are obtained that convey a plastic impression.

An example of parameterization of the camera or viewer angle by means of zoom levels is shown in table in .

In this case an angle of 90 corresponds to a viewing perspective from directly or a very long way above the geographical position e.g. for viewer heights above 1000 km. By contrast an angle of 0 corresponds to a viewing perspective as seen from the geographical position i.e. in this case the camera position matches the geographical position. A virtual viewer height from 30 m to 5 km can correspond to an angle of 34 . From a height of from 6 km to 1000 km the viewer angle can increase progressively from 34 to 90 . In other words the camera can move on a fictitious circle around the geographical position and the lower the viewing height the shallower the camera angle becomes.

Compared to the exemplary embodiment shown in the map details and shown in figures a and involve a spatial realistic perception of the navigation map additionally being enhanced by the use of a virtual light source since objects that have a topological height are represented not only in different colors but also with corresponding shading. Thus the map section in shows differently shaded regions B and B that indicate mountains of different heights and are therefore able to improve plastic representation even further.

For example the virtual light source for a 3D rendering unit can be parameterized in accordance with the following settings which may be specified as XML code XML Extensible Markup Language for example 

In this case the parameter light mode head means that the light source is at a fixed location in the space regardless of the position of the virtual camera. The attribute type directional states that the light source is at a mathematically infinite distance from the geometry and hence every object in the rendering scene is lit from the same direction depending on azimuth and tilt simulation of the sun azimuth being an angle of rotation for the light source in relation to a virtual zero point in the map representation. tilt determines an angle of tilt of the light source. ambient describes a brightness of the light source and hence a perceptible contrast. The parameter squarebrightness is irrelevant because it is not used. The parameter usage describes whether the light source described lights the general scenery or the carsor vehicle symbol separately.

A further exemplary embodiment of a spatially plastic representation of a map section is shown by . Compared to this figure shows a bird s eye perspective i.e. viewer angle 90 with a plastic appearance on account of color shading and possibly additional light shade effects.

The plastic representation of the vehicle symbol that is shown in has had the light source parameterized for example according to the following settings 

In this case the horizon settings can be parameterized on the basis of the table shown in . Slight deviations for example by up to 10 from the values presented in are possible. The parameters used besides the zoom level are scale factor and sky offset . The scale factor parameter stipulates a displacement factor relative to the map detail represented on the display. The second parameter sky offset describes an absolute distance to the beginning of a mist that is represented beneath a horizon line from the beginning of the screen edge.

Color values for elements like roads and polygons are each indicated as an RGBA value in a manner separated according to inline and outline e.g. freeways tunnels bridges A roads country roads local roads pedestrian zones ferry roads industrial areas built up areas oceans lakes rivers canals parks forests cemeteries boundaries railroad lines routes etc. In this case inline describes an area of a linear object e.g. road that is to say the region that lies between the two contour lines. The outline describes the contour line itself.

Visibility for the elements such as roads polygons and text labels can be defined by means of statements for zoom scales e.g. freeways tunnels bridges A roads country roads local roads pedestrian zones ferry roads industrial areas built up areas oceans lakes rivers canals parks forests cemeteries boundaries railroad lines routes one way street arrows city names road names checkered flags labels for forests and bodies of water etc.

Typefaces for text labels can be defined by defining font font size font color thickness and color of the outline e.g. city names road names road numbers names for bodies of water forest names tunnel names island names etc.

A suppression algorithm and a character order are executed by stipulating a fixed order for all representable elements. A configuration for the character width for roads and polygons is stipulated in a manner separated according to inline and outline by means of all the zoom levels by defining pixel values e.g. for freeways tunnels bridges A roads country roads local roads pedestrian zones ferry roads routes etc.

A further application is for assessment of large scales and routes with a great distance. It is thus possible for routes that extend over large portions of the earth s surface likewise to be represented in plastic form as shown in . Zooming out a long way allows a large overview. At the same time exemplary embodiments allow the globe to be rotated to explore the earth. Both a day representation and a night representation or mode are possible.

The features disclosed in the description above the claims below and the enclosed figures may be of significance for realizing an exemplary embodiment in their various refinements and can be implemented either individually or in any combination.

Although some aspects have been described in connection with an apparatus it goes without saying that these aspects are also a description of the corresponding method which means that a block or an element of an apparatus can also be understood to be a corresponding method step or to be a feature of a method step. Similarly aspects that have been described in connection with or as a method step are also a description of a corresponding block or detail or feature of a corresponding apparatus.

According to particular implementation requirements exemplary embodiments may be implemented in hardware or in software. The implementation can be performed using a digital storage medium for example a floppy disk a DVD a BluRay disk a CD a ROM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM or a FLASH memory a hard disk or another magnetic or optical memory that stores electronically readable control signals that are able to interact or do interact with a programmable hardware component such that the respective method is performed.

A programmable hardware component may be formed by a processor a computer processor CPU Central Processing Unit a graphics processor GPU Graphics Processing Unit a computer a computer system an application specific integrated circuit ASIC an integrated circuit IC a system on chip SOC a programmable logic element or a field programmable gate array FPGA with a microprocessor.

The digital storage medium may therefore be machine readable or computer readable. Some exemplary embodiments thus comprise a data storage medium that has electronically readable control signals that are capable of interacting with a programmable computer system or a programmable hardware component such that one of the methods described herein is performed. An exemplary embodiment is therefore a data storage medium or a digital storage medium or computer readable medium on which the program for performing one of the methods described herein is recorded.

In general exemplary embodiments may be implemented as a program firmware a computer program or computer program product with a program code or as data the program code or the data being effective for performing one of the methods when the program runs on a processor or programmable hardware component. The program code or the data may also be stored on a machine readable storage medium or data storage medium for example. The program code or the data may be present as a source code machine code or bytecode and as another intermediate code inter alia.

A program according to one exemplary embodiment can implement one of the methods whilst being performed for example by reading memory locations or writing a datum or a plurality of data thereto which possibly prompts switching processes or other processes in transistor structures in amplifier structures or in other electrical optical or magnetic components or components operating on another functional principle. Accordingly data values sensor values or other information can be captured determined or measured by a program by reading a memory location. A program can therefore capture determine or measure variables values measured variables and other information by reading one or more memory locations and can prompt bring about or perform an action and actuate other appliances machines and components by writing to one or more memory locations.

The exemplary embodiments described above are merely an illustration of the principles. It goes without saying that modifications and variations of the arrangements and details described herein will be apparent for a person that is skilled in the art. The intention is therefore for the invention to be limited merely by the scope of protection of the patent claims below rather than by the specific details that have been presented herein on the basis of the description and the explanation of the exemplary embodiments.

