---

title: Growth of antimony doped P-type zinc oxide nanowires for optoelectronics
abstract: In a method of growing p-type nanowires, a nanowire growth solution of zinc nitrate (Zn(NO)), hexamethylenetetramine (HMTA) and polyethylenemine (800 MPEI) is prepared. A dopant solution to the growth solution, the dopant solution including an equal molar ration of sodium hydroxide (NaOH), glycolic acid (CHO) and antimony acetate (Sb(CHCOO)) in water is prepared. The dopant solution and the growth solution combine to generate a resulting solution that includes antimony to zinc in a ratio of between 0.2% molar to 2.0% molar, the resulting solution having a top surface. An ammonia solution is added to the resulting solution. A ZnO seed layer is applied to a substrate and the substrate is placed into the top surface of the resulting solution with the ZnO seed layer facing downwardly for a predetermined time until Sb-doped ZnO nanowires having a length of at least 5 μm have grown from the ZnO seed layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09455399&OS=09455399&RS=09455399
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09455399
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130912
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 700 132 filed Sep. 12 2012 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. DE FG02 07ER46394 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Piezoelectric semiconductors with wurtzite or zinc blend structures such as ZnO GaN InN and ZnS have attracted increased attention in the burgeoning field of piezotronics and piezo phototronics which can be attributed to their numerous robust synthesis methods and potential for realizing novel applications by coupling their piezoelectric and semiconductor properties. The working principle of piezotronics lies in the modulation gating of carrier transport across the barriers junctions through piezoelectric polarization induced electric field piezopotential under strain which is known as the piezotronic effect. This provides a new mechanism for controlling charge carrier transport by mechanical strain in addition to the well known electrically induced field effect. A wide variety of novel applications based on the piezotronic effect have been demonstrated including strain sensors logic units memory cells electrochemical devices and tactile imaging arrays. However the aforementioned piezotronic devices were all fabricated using intrinsically n type ZnO and few studies of piezotronics based on p type materials especially p type ZnO have been done. In order to develop a full understanding of the theory of piezotronics and enable novel applications in electronics optoelectronics smart MEMS NEMS and human machine interfacing it is important to investigate the feasibility of p type piezoelectric semiconductors for piezotronic applications.

Different types of p type doping in ZnO nanowires has been previously achieved through a variety of methods including chemical vapor deposition and pulsed laser deposition. However the doping often suffers from poor stability due to the formation of low energy donor impurities such as hydrogen interstitials and oxygen vacancies V . Group I elements in the Zn site should act as acceptors but have been shown to form interstitials due to their small atomic radii making them act as donors instead. Of the group V elements nitrogen has often been considered the most promising candidate for achieving stable p type doped ZnO due to its similar atomic radius to oxygen. However there has been difficulty in reproducing them. Despite their much larger atomic radii arsenic As and antimony Sb have both been demonstrated as promising candidates for p type doping in ZnO. Rather than occupying an O site it has been suggested that an As Sb 2Vcomplex forms. Recently p type ZnO nanowires doped with Sb were demonstrated through low temperature solution phase process using a glycolate ligand to control the release rate of dopant. However those solution grown nanowires were only a few m in length making manipulation and further experimentation difficult.

Therefore there is a need for a method of growing p type doped nanowires that are longer and more stable.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a method of growing p type nanowires in which a nanowire growth solution of zinc nitrate Zn NO hexamethylenetetramine HMTA and polyethylenemine 800 MPEI is prepared. A dopant solution to the growth solution the dopant solution including an equal molar ration of sodium hydroxide NaOH glycolic acid CHO and antimony acetate Sb CHCOO in water is prepared. The dopant solution is mixed with the growth solution in a container to generate a resulting solution that includes antimony to zinc in a ratio of between 0.2 molar to 2.0 molar the resulting solution having a top surface. An ammonia solution is added to the resulting solution. A ZnO seed layer is applied to a substrate and the substrate is placed into the top surface of the resulting solution with the ZnO seed layer facing downwardly for a predetermined time until Sb doped ZnO nanowires having a length of at least 5 m have grown from the ZnO seed layer.

In another aspect the invention is a method of growing a nanostructure in which a nanowire growth solution of 25 mM zinc nitrate Zn NO 12.5 mM hexamethylenetetramine HMTA 5 mM polyethylenemine 800 MPEI and 0.8 M ammonium hydroxide is prepared. A dopant solution to the growth solution the dopant solution including an equal molar ration of sodium hydroxide NaOH glycolic acid CHO and antimony acetate Sb CHCOO in water is prepared. The antimony acetate Sb CHCOO is added to the dopant solution in a 1 12 molar ratio. The dopant solution is mixed with the growth solution in a container to generate a resulting solution that includes antimony to zinc in a ratio of between 0.2 molar to 2.0 molar. The resulting solution has a top surface. A ZnO seed layer is sputtered on to an SiOsubstrate. The substrate is placed into the top surface of the resulting solution with the ZnO seed layer facing down for about 24 hours until Sb doped ZnO nanowires having a length of at least 5 m have grown from the ZnO seed layer. The substrate is removed from the resulting solution and the Sb doped ZnO nanowires are rinsed in deionized water. The Sb doped ZnO nanowires are annealed at about 850 C. for about one hour.

In yet another aspect the invention is a nano structure that includes a substrate. An elongated zinc oxide nanowire extends from the substrate. The elongated zinc oxide nanowire includes an antimony dopant and has a length of at least 5 m.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

As shown in one embodiment is a method of growing ultra long p type ZnO nanowires up to 60 m in length using a low temperature solution growth method. In one experimental embodiment doped ZnO nanowires were synthesized using a modified hydrothermal method. To produce longer wires high concentrations of ammonia were added to the growth solution to inhibit self nucleation. A solution of 25 mM zinc nitrate Zn NO 12.5 mM hexamethylenetetramine HMTA 5 mM polyethylenemine 800 MPEI and 0.8 M ammonium hydroxide was prepared. The dopant solution was prepared by mixing an equal molar ratio of sodium hydroxide NaOH and glycolic acid CHO in water. Antimony acetate Sb CHCOO was then added to this solution in a 1 12 molar ratio which were combined in a beaker to form a resulting solution . All chemicals were purchased from Sigma Aldrich and Alfa Aesar and used as received without further purification. Dopant with concentration between 0.2 and 2 molar relative to zinc was added to the solution. The nanowires were grown on a substrate made from a silicon wafer in other embodiments the substrate could include SiOor a flexible polymer such as polyethylene terephthalate PET with a 100 nm thick sputtered ZnO seed layer for 24 hours in a 95 C. oven. With certain types of substrates such as polymer substrates an indium tin oxide ITO layer may be applied to the substrate prior to sputtering the ZnO seed layer to improve adhesion. Teflon tape was added to the substrate to improve buoyancy.

A shown in considerable improvement in nanowire length can be seen with wires reaching lengths of up to 60 m at 0.2 doping. As the doping concentration increased the wire length tended to decrease while the diameter remained constantly between 200 300 nm. A micrograph of resulting Sb doped nanowires is shown in .

Voids can be observed inside the as synthesized nanowires suggesting that the doping mechanism is the same despite the differences in growth solution and length of as fabricated nanowires. This co doping reaction explains the excellent stability of p type Sb doped nanowires generated from this method. The concentration of voids increases when the dopant concentration increases from 0.2 to 2 . Significantly smaller voids are observed in the heavily doped sample as well. In the higher doped samples there will be more nucleation events due to the increased dopant concentration. Because of the overlapping diffusion fields of the different nucleation sites in the higher doped samples the growth rate will quickly drop off leading to smaller dopant planes and thus smaller voids. Due to the lower number of nucleation events in the lower doped sample there is no diffusion overlap allowing for faster growth of dopant planes which form larger voids. Since the dopant is only incorporated onto the bottom face of the void a large number of small voids will incorporate more dopant into the nanowire than a few large ones.

To characterize the charge carrier properties of as synthesized ZnO nanowires single nanowire field effect transistors FET with a back gate configuration were fabricated. The ZnO nanowires were annealed at 850 C. in atmosphere to activate the dopants and then re dispersed in ethanol using ultrasonication to transfer them to the Si substrate. A 200 nm thick SiOwafer was thermally grown on heavily doped silicon substrates and acted as the gate dielectric. Source and drain electrodes 200 nm Ti for undoped nanowires and 200 nm Ni for doped nanowires were defined by electron beam lithography and deposited via electron beam evaporation and standard lift off processes. The electrical transport characteristics of the single nanowire FETs was measured using a semiconductor parameter analyzer Keithley 4200 with results for both undoped 0 and doped samples 0.2 and 1 . The undoped ZnO nanowire FET exhibited typical n type characteristics with a threshold voltage of 2.8 V and on off ratio of 10. The mobility and carrier concentration were calculated as 3.22 cm V sand 2.2 10cmrespectively. Clear p type characteristics can be observed for both 0.2 and 1 Sb doped ZnO nanowire FETs. The on off ratio threshold voltage mobility and carrier concentration of 0.2 doped sample are found to be 10 2.1 V 0.82 cm V sand 2.6 10cmrespectively while the corresponding values for 1 doped samples are 10 2.0 V 1.24 cm V sand 3.8 10cm. The electrical transport characteristic of 0.2 doped sample was remeasured after 2 months which demonstrates stable p type behavior.

In one experimental embodiment a Pt coated Si AFM tip AFM MFP 3D from Asylum Research was scanned across an array of as grown nanowires in contact mode with a constant normal force of 5 nN. A 500 M resistor was added to the circuit to calculate the voltage based on the output current. Electrical signals with opposite polarities were observed in undoped and doped wires. When the AFM tip bends a piezoelectric semiconductor nanowire positive and negative piezopotential is induced along the stretched and compressed sides respectively. In an n type nanowire the conduction band electrons tend to accumulate on the stretched side. Consequently the positive piezopotential at the stretched side is partially screened by free charge carriers while the negative piezopotential is preserved. The remnant positive piezopotential due to incomplete screening by the free electrons results in a reversely biased Schottky barrier between AFM tip and nanowire which prevents the flow of electrons across the interface. When the AFM tip scans across the top of the nanowires and touches the compressed side of the nanowire negative piezopotential at that side gives rise to the forward biased Schottky barrier. As a result negative transient current spikes can be observed in external load due to the transport of free electrons from the semiconductor to the metal tip. Conversely in nanowires with finite p type doping the holes tend to accumulate at the negative piezopotential side. In this case the negative piezopotential at the compressed side is partially screened while the positive piezopotential is preserved. Unlike n type semiconductors the Schottky barrier at the metal p type semiconductor interface is forward biased when the semiconductor side is positively biased. Therefore positive piezopotential in bent p type nanowires will drive the flow of charge carriers from the metal tip to the nanowires through the external load and positive transient current spikes can be observed. As a result one can easily identify the majority carrier based on the sign of measured current during conductive AFM scanning. It is also interesting to note that the outputs from 1 doped nanowires were an order of magnitude lower than those from the 0.2 doped samples which can be attributed to the increased screening of strain induced piezopotential in more heavily doped nanowires. By characterizing the electrical transport and piezoelectric response measurements the p type doping of our ultra long nanowires was confirmed.

Piezotronic devices based on modulation of charge carrier transport by strain induced piezopotential can be made with n type materials. Using the method disclosed herein p type ZnO nanowires based piezotronic transistors can be made which extends the concept of piezotronics and its potential applications in the fields of flexible electronics and optoelectronics. As prepared Sb doped ZnO nanowires were sonicated in ethanol and transferred onto PET substrates. Titanium 200 nm thick was chosen to form Schottky contacts with single p type ZnO nanowires. The nanowire was attached laterally to a substrate and its two ends bonded with metal. In such a configuration since the diameters of p type ZnO nanowires 

The piezoelectric polarization induced piezopotential in strained p type ZnO nanowires can also drive the flow of electrons through an external load without an applied electric bias which can be utilized to harvest mechanical energy and converts it into electricity. Flexible piezoelectric nanogenerators NGs based on an array of p type ZnO nanowires were fabricated to demonstrate this concept. In one experimental embodiment a layer of ITO 120 nm was first sputtered onto PET substrates serving as the bottom electrode. A ZnO seed layer 125 nm was subsequently sputtered onto the ITO layer. An array of p type ZnO nanowires was then grown through the hydrothermal method described previously except the growth time was decreased to 2 hours for the 0 and 0.2 doped samples to produce wires of comparable length to the 1 doped samples. After growth the as synthesized nanowires array was encapsulated with a PMMA layer and a layer of gold 50 nm was evaporated onto the baked PMMA to serve as the top electrode. Piezoelectric output was produced by applying periodic mechanical strain to the device. Due to the low doping concentration no significant difference was seen between the outputs of the 0 and 0.2 doped devices. However there was a noticeable drop in output for the 1 doped sample. This can be attributed to the more significant screening of the induced piezo polarization charges by the higher concentration of free charge carriers. Unlike the aforementioned AFM measurements for transversely bent ZnO nanowires no reversal in polarity of the outputs were observed here for n and p type samples due to the fundamental differences between these two scenarios. Because of the device structure and operation scheme of the flexible array NG the strain induced piezopotential is distributed along the axial direction of the nanowires regardless of doping which is different from the transverse distribution of piezopotential in the AFM study. The distribution of piezopotential induced along the nanowires is dictated by the crystal structure and orientation and not the type of majority carriers. As a result the piezopotential of both undoped and doped samples will have the same polarity at corresponding contacts under the same straining conditions. Free electrons in undoped samples and holes in doped ones will only screen the piezopotential at their corresponding contacts and will not change the direction of the electron flow through the external circuit which defines the polarity of the measured electrical outputs.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

