---

title: Social media driven information interface
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for populating an information interface based upon social media data. For example, users may post, share, and/or discuss various information through social media sources. Accordingly, social media data may be obtained from such social media sources. The social media data may be grouped into sets of social media data based upon temporal information. Within the sets of social media data, social media entries may be clustered into topic clusters (e.g., a royal wedding topic cluster, a plane crash topic cluster, etc.). Event summaries may be generated for respective topic clusters. The event summaries may be used to populate timeslots of an information interface, such as a calendar or timeline, to create annotated timeslots. In this way, the information interface may provide users with an interactive view of events over a time period, such as a year-in-review, based upon social media data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09299113&OS=09299113&RS=09299113
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09299113
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130913
---
Many users post and share information through various social networking services. In an example a user may use a mobile device to capture a soccer championship game photo of a player scoring a winning goal. The user may upload the soccer championship game photo to an image sharing service for other users to view comment on share and or the like. The user may tag the soccer championship game photo with a hashtag such as championshipgoal which may facilitate discovery of the championship game photo by other users performing an image search. In another example multiple users of a microblog discussion service may engage in a microblog discussion regarding a recent political debate. In this way users may share information through image sharing services microblog discussion services social network profiles and or a variety of other social networking services.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for populating an information interface based upon social media data are provided herein. Users may share discuss and or discover information relating to entities e.g. a soccer player a new restaurant chain a city a new car etc. and or events e.g. a hurricane birth of a royal baby a tennis championship match etc. associated with a wide variety of topics through social media services such as a photo sharing service a social network a microblog service a search engine service etc. Such social media data may be obtained from one or more social media sources.

In an embodiment the social media data may be grouped into sets of social media data based upon temporal information. For example a first set of social media data may be identified from the social media data based upon the first set of social media data corresponding to a first time range e.g. social network posts shared images microblog discussions and or other social media entries corresponding to a particular day . In this way the sets of social media data may correspond to social media entries occurring within particular time ranges such as days of the year.

Topic clusters may be identified from the sets of social media data e.g. social media entries within respective sets of social media data may be clustered into topic clusters . In an example a first topic cluster may be identified from the first set of social media data. The first topic cluster may comprise one or more social media entries having topics that are similar above a topic clustering threshold. For example the first topic cluster may comprise social media entries pertaining to a soccer game occurring on Sep. 12 2013 a second topic cluster may comprise social media entries pertaining to a large corporation merger occurring on Sep. 12 2013 a third topic cluster may comprise social media entries pertaining to a plane crash on Sep. 13 2013 a fourth topic cluster may comprise social media entries pertaining to peace treaty on Sep. 13 2013 etc.

In an embodiment the social media data may be grouped into topic clusters e.g. without initially being grouped based upon temporal information . For example a first topic cluster may be identified having one or more social media entries having a first topic similarity above a first topic clustering threshold a second topic cluster may be identified having one or more social media entries having a second topic similarity above a second topic clustering threshold etc. After the social media data is grouped or clustered into topic clusters one or more temporal groupings of social media entries within a topic cluster may be identified. For example a sports topic cluster e.g. a first topic cluster may be identified from the social media data e.g. not based upon temporal information . The sports topic cluster may comprise a wide variety of sports related social media entries. A first temporal grouping of social media entries corresponding to a first time range may be identified from the sports topic cluster a second temporal grouping of social media entries corresponding to a second time range may be identified from the sports topic cluster etc. For example a first temporal grouping of social media entries derived from the sports topic cluster may comprise one or more social media entries pertaining to the Olympics where the one or more social media entries within the first temporal grouping span a time range e.g. several days during which the Olympics occur. It will be appreciated that grouping social media data into topic clusters and then identifying a temporal grouping of social media entries within a topic cluster may facilitate or simplify finding events that span a relatively long time span. In this way a user may not have to peruse multiple time spans e.g. 1 day 2 days etc. to determine if two topic clusters e.g. in neighboring days pertain to the same event topic etc.

It will be appreciated that the examples provided herein are not meant to be limiting e.g. temporal groupings are not limited to granularity of a day days 24 hrs. etc. . For example social media entries may be clustered into topic clusters and or grouped into temporal groupings corresponding to any granularity of time ranges such as weeks months or any arbitrary time period. In an example a first temporal grouping of social media entries within a Sports topic cluster may correspond to a MLB baseball season and thus may span a time range of about 8 months whereas a second grouping of social media entries within the Sports topic cluster may correspond to MLB baseball playoffs and thus may span a time range of about 2 months.

Respective event summaries may be generated for different topic clusters and or for different temporal groupings of social media entries within a topic cluster. For example the soccer game social media entries within the first topic cluster may be evaluated to generate a soccer event summary describing the soccer game on Sep. 12 2013 e.g. the soccer event summary may comprise an image a short description of the soccer game a social network message a hashtag a description of the teams that played the soccer game and or a variety of other information that may correspond to soccer game social media entries having a ranking above a popularity threshold such as a relatively high number of shares likes views etc. . In an example one or more event summaries may be annotated with a category such as sports entertainment etc. Thus a user may filter event summaries for events corresponding to a particular category e.g. of interest to the user . In this way event summaries may be created for time ranges based upon topic clusters e.g. the soccer event summary and a corporation merger event summary may be associated with a Sep. 12 2013 time range a plane crash event summary and a peace treaty event summary may be associated with the Sep. 13 2013 time range etc. . In this way timeslots e.g. timeslots representing days weeks months etc. of an information interface such as a calendar or timeline may be populated with event summaries. The information interface may provide a historical a current and or a future summary of events identified from social media data e.g. a year in review a future event predicted based upon a recurring event such as the Olympics etc. . It may be appreciated that the information interface may be provided through various types of interfaces such as a calendar app a search results page as a social network interface a timeline a carousel and or any other e.g. interactive interface.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

An embodiment of populating an information interface based upon social media data is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At social media data may be obtained from one or more social media sources. In an example social network posts may be extracted from a social network microblog messages may be extracted from a microblog discussion network search queries may be extracted from a search engine network hashtags may be extracted from a first social media source images may be extracted from an image sharing network a link may be extracted from a second social media source multimedia content may be extracted from a third social media source etc. In another example a social media source may provide a ranked list of social media data maintained by the social media source e.g. hashtags images posts or other social media entries having relatively high popularity rankings based upon an amount of shares likes views occurrences etc. . In this way the social media data may be extracted from various social media sources. Because the social media data may comprise redundant data e.g. hundreds of instances of a soccer game winning shot photo deduplication may be performed on the social media data.

The social media data may be grouped into sets of social media data based upon time ranges e.g. days weeks months etc. . Accordingly a first set of social media is identified from the social media data at . The first set of social media data may correspond to a first time range e.g. social media entries corresponding to a particular day . In this way the social media data may be grouped based upon temporal criteria such as days of the year.

Respective sets of social media data may be clustered by topics into topic clusters e.g. the first set of social media data may have social media entries corresponding to a soccer game topic a business merger topic and a new amusement park topic for the first time range a second set of social media data may have social media entries corresponding to a plane crash topic a baseball game topic and a new movie release topic for a second time range . Accordingly a first topic cluster is identified from the first set of social media data at . The first topic cluster comprises a first social media entry and or other social media entries having topic similarities above a first topic clustering threshold e.g. social media entries corresponding to a soccer game may be clustered into a soccer game topic cluster . In an example a second topic cluster is identified from the second set of social media data. The second topic cluster comprises a second social media entry and or other social media entries having topic similarities above a second topic clustering threshold e.g. social media entries corresponding to a plane crash may be clustered into a plane crash topic cluster . In this way social media entries within respective sets of social media data may be clustered into topic clusters.

In an example one or more entities may be identified from social media entries within a topic cluster. For example a first entity e.g. a soccer player A who plays for Team A may be identified from a first social media entry. A second entity e.g. soccer player B who plays for Team B may be identified from a second social media entry. A relationship between the first entity and the second entity may be determined e.g. Team A played Team B in the soccer game where player A scored a winning shot past player B . In this way the first social media entry and the second social media entry may be included within the first topic cluster based upon the relationship. The relationship may be used for deduplication clustering event summary generation etc.

Event summaries may be generated for respective topic clusters. Accordingly a first event summary may be generated for the first time range based upon the first topic cluster at . The first event summary may comprise various descriptive information associated with events and or entities of the first topic cluster. For example an event description e.g. a caption derived from text of social media entries within the soccer game topic cluster having relatively high rankings corresponding to quality relevancy popularity etc. of the soccer game an image of a game winning shot e.g. an image having a threshold number of shares likes views etc. an entity description of a soccer player e.g. identified from text of social media entries within the soccer game topic cluster a category e.g. a sports category assigned to the first topic cluster a hashtag e.g. a hashtag championshipwinners used to tag a threshold number of social media entries a link to web content e.g. a team roster a link to a social network page e.g. a team A social network profile and or a variety of other information may be used to generate and or be comprised within the first event summary. A second event summary may be generated for the first time range based upon the second topic cluster e.g. information relating to or identifying the plane crash .

Timeslots e.g. representing days weeks months etc. of an information interface such as a calendar a carousel a timeline or other interface may be populated with event summaries to create annotated timeslots for the information interface. Accordingly a first timeslot associated with the first time range may be populated with the first event summary to create a first annotated timeslot at . In an example the first annotated timeslot may be annotated with the first event summary and or the second event summary. In this way the first timeslot may be annotated with event summaries corresponding to the first time range e.g. event summaries for a particular day represented by the first annotated timeslot . In an example an event summary used to populate a timeslot may correspond to a recurring event such as the Olympics. Accordingly a future timeslot of the information interface may be populated with a future occurrence of the recurring event.

In an example a plurality of timeslots of the information interface may be populated with event summaries to create a plurality of annotated timeslots. For example a second set of social media data may be identified from the social media data. The second set of social media data may correspond to a second time range e.g. the first time range may correspond to Sep. 12 2013 and the second time range may correspond to Sep. 13 2013 . A second topic cluster may be identified from the second set of social media data. The second topic cluster may comprise a second social media entry and or other social media entries having topic similarity above a second topic clustering threshold. A second event summary may be generated for the second time range based upon the second topic cluster. A second timeslot associated with the second time range of the information interface may be populated with the second event summary to create a second annotated timeslot.

The information interface may be provided according to a variety of interface types. In an example the information interface may be provided as a calendar e.g. a day of the calendar may correspond to an annotated timeslot such that the day may be annotated with one or more event summaries or condensed event summaries that are populated within the annotated timeslot . For example a calendar may be augmented using the information interface to create an augmented calendar. The calendar may be provided as a carousel interface a calendar application embedded within a search results page provided through an operating system search interface such as a search charm and or any other type of user interface. In an example the information interface may be filtered based upon various filter criteria or rather various filter criteria may be applied to the information interface such that the information interface is merely populated with corresponding relevant etc. information. For example a user may filter the information interface based upon interests of the user e.g. a particular genre of video games entity types e.g. people places organizations etc. and or categories e.g. politics sports world movies etc. etc. The filter criteria may be specified by the user or may be provided to the user for selection for example.

In another example the information interface may be provided as a timeline e.g. a day of the timeline may correspond to an annotated timeslot such that the day may be annotated with one or more event summaries or condensed event summaries that are populated within the annotated timeslot . The timeline may comprise an interactive timeline that may facilitate user navigation amongst one or more annotated timeslots e.g. a zoom in navigation to display annotated timeslots at a higher granularity over a shorter timespan a zoom out navigation to display annotated timeslots at a lower granularity over a larger timespan a scroll navigation to view annotated timeslots corresponding to a new timespan etc. . In another example the information interface may be provided as a carousel interface comprising a plurality of carousel panes where a carousel pane corresponds to an annotated timeslot e.g. one or more event summaries or condensed event summaries of an annotated timeslot may be used to annotate a corresponding carousel pane . In another example the information interface may be provided as a year in review interface comprising annotated timeslots corresponding to days of a year.

In an example the information interface may be populated based upon a profile of a user. For example the profile of the user e.g. a profile based upon a social network profile email messages sent received by the user topics discussed by the user such as through a microblog session etc. may be evaluated to identify a first interest of the user. One or more event summaries may be selectively displayed through the information interface based upon the one or more event summaries corresponding to the first interest. For example the user may have an interest in soccer but may have expressed a disinterest in politics. Accordingly soccer event summaries but not political event summaries may be populated within the information interface. In an example the information interface may be populated with a plurality of event summaries. A first set of event summaries but not a second set of event summaries may be selectively displayed based upon a filter criteria e.g. the user may select a videogame filter criteria such that merely videogame event summaries are displayed . In an example the information interface may be provided as an interactive interface. A first set of annotated timeslots may be displayed through the interactive interface based upon a first view granularity. The first set of annotated timeslots may correspond to a first event summary granularity e.g. event summaries populated at a monthly granularity . Responsive to a zoom input associated with the interactive interface display of the first set of annotated timeslots may be transitioned to a second set of annotated timeslots based upon a second view granularity specified by the zoom input. The second set of annotated timeslots may correspond to a second event summary granularity e.g. event summaries populated at a weekly granularity different than the first event summary granularity. In this way event summaries may be derived from social media data and may be used to populate an information interface such as a calendar carousel timeline and or other e.g. interactive interface. At the method ends.

Because a topic cluster may comprise redundant social media entries e.g. the first topic cluster may comprise 2 000 instances of the fire truck at CLE parade image the information interface population component may be configured to remove duplicate social media entries utilizing deduplication functionality. In an example the information interface population component may be configured to rank social media entries based upon various ranking criteria such as a number of shares a number of likes a number of views quality relevancy user interest user interaction and or other ranking criteria.

The information interface population component may be configured to generate event summaries for respective topics clusters. For example a first event summary may be created for the first topic cluster . The first event summary may comprise information related to a Cleveland parade event e.g. hashtags used to discuss the Cleveland parade event an image of the Cleveland parade event and or a variety of other information about the Cleveland parade event . A second event summary may be created for the second topic cluster . The second event summary may comprise information related to a Tampa Bay fighter jet show event e.g. hashtags used to discuss the Tampa Bay fighter jet show event information about a fighter pilot entity a description of the Tampa Bay fighter jet show event an image from the Tampa Bay fighter jet show event a link to a fighter jet social network profile etc. . In this way event summaries may be created for topic clusters. The event summaries may be used to populate timeslots of an information interface to create annotated timeslots e.g. .

The information interface population component may determine that a relationship exists between the player A of Team A and the player B of Team B. For example the relationship may specify that Team A played Team B in a championship soccer match where player A from Team A scored a winning goal past player B of Team B. The relationship may be used for clustering e.g. a determination as to whether one or more social media entries are to be or remain clustered within the third topic cluster event summary generation e.g. a soccer championship event summary may be derived from information within the relationship categorization of topic clusters e.g. the assignment of a sports category and or the soccer championship topic to the third topic cluster etc.

In an example the information interface comprises an augmented calendar comprising annotated timeslots such as the first annotated timeslot populated with the condensed first event summary and the condensed second event summary the second annotated timeslot populated with the condensed third event summary and a condensed fourth event summary for a plane crash event and or a third annotated timeslot e.g. corresponding to a third time range of Jul. 16 2013 populated with a condensed fifth event summary for a stock market surge event and a condensed sixth event summary for a new military jets deployed event. A user may navigate between various time ranges of the information interface . For example responsive to a view older input annotated timeslots corresponding to time ranges before July 14may be displayed. Responsive to a view newer input annotated timeslots corresponding to time ranges after July 16may be displayed. Responsive to receiving a search query through a search interface one or more annotated timeslots populated with event summaries corresponding to the search query may be displayed.

In an example the information interface population component may be configured to evaluate a user profile of a user to identify one or more interests of the user such as a fighter jet interest e.g. based upon a social network profile of the user a soccer interest e.g. based upon microblog messages of the user having soccer tags and a stock market interest e.g. based upon emails of the user regarding the stock market . The information interface population component may be configured to selectively display one or more event summaries through the information interface based upon the one or more event summaries corresponding to the one or more interests of the user. For example the information interface population component may display the condensed first event summary corresponding to the fighter jet interest and the condensed second event summary corresponding to the soccer interest but not a condensed event summary corresponding to a Netherlands earthquake that may be populated within the first annotated timeslot . In an example the information interface may be filtered by date e.g. the user may specify a date range of Apr. 4 2012 to Jun. 4 2012 such that the information interface is populated with annotated timeslots between Apr. 4 2012 and Jun. 4 2012 filtered by category e.g. the user may specify a sports category such that the information interface is selectively populated with event summaries corresponding to sports etc.

In an example the second condensed event summary is selected. Responsive to the selection a soccer championship game event summary is displayed. The soccer championship game event summary comprises various information about a soccer championship game event. For example the soccer championship game event summary specifies a link to a Team A victory article a soccer ball image captured during the soccer championship game event and tagged with a hashtag winningball a link to a player A winning goal video a link to a player A social network profile etc.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

