---

title: Multiple stream content presentation
abstract: A client may, for example, initiate presentation of the content item in a hybrid stream mode in which both a client stream and a content provider stream are combined to form a resulting hybrid stream for presentation. The client may then, at some point during presentation of the content item, detect that the content provider stream has become unavailable. In response to such a determination, the client may continue to present the content item in a client stream mode, in which the client stream is used for presentation of the content item without use of the content provider stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596280&OS=09596280&RS=09596280
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09596280
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131111
---
This application is related to the following applications each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 076 718 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled VIDEO ENCODING BASED ON AREAS OF INTEREST U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 076 821 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled ADAPTIVE SCENE COMPLEXITY BASED ON SERVICE QUALITY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 077 127 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled SERVICE FOR GENERATING GRAPHICS OBJECT DATA U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 077 136 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled IMAGE COMPOSITION BASED ON REMOTE OBJECT DATA U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 077 165 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled MULTIPLE PARALLEL GRAPHICS PROCESSING UNITS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 077 084 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled ADAPTIVE CONTENT TRANSMISSION U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 077 180 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled VIEW GENERATION BASED ON SHARED STATE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 077 149 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled DATA COLLECTION FOR MULTIPLE VIEW GENERATION U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 077 142 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled STREAMING GAME SERVER VIDEO RECORDER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 076 815 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled LOCATION OF ACTOR RESOURCES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 077 146 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled SESSION IDLE OPTIMIZATION FOR STREAMING SERVER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 077 023 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled APPLICATION STREAMING SERVICE U.S. Patent Application No. 61 902 740 filed Nov. 11 2013 entitled EFFICIENT BANDWIDTH ESTIMATION .

Recent technological advances have improved the ability to transmit and deliver information in a fast and efficient manner. In accordance with such advances it is becoming increasingly popular to acquire and store data at a central provider location and to deliver the data to end users quickly upon request. This model may employ technological concepts such as multimedia streaming in which multimedia content may be constantly received by and presented to an end user while being delivered by a provider. One rapidly expanding area is the use of streaming technology to deliver content such as video games. When streaming content a provider may access the requested content render the content from scenes into images and then encode and transmit the images to a client over a network such as the Internet.

While streaming and other content delivery technology provides many benefits it may also involve a number of drawbacks. For example streaming and other content delivery technology may require a client to maintain a constant connection to the provider for the entire duration of a streaming or other content delivery session. The need for such a constant connection may for example be undesirable for clients that would need or like to change locations during a content delivery session. Such a change in location may cause the client to pass through or relocate to an area with poor connectivity to the provider thereby interrupting and perhaps terminating the content delivery session. In some cases even if a client is not changing location changing network conditions at a fixed location may also reduce connectivity and potentially negatively impact or terminate content delivery.

In general this disclosure describes techniques for multiple stream content presentation. In accordance with the disclosed techniques multiple content streams may be employed in association with presentation of a content item such as a video game. For example the multiple content streams may include a client stream and a content provider stream. In some cases the client stream may be rendered based at least in part on a client content item version installed on the client device while the content provider stream may be rendered based at least in part on a content provider content item version executed by a content provider. The content provider stream may for example be transmitted from the content provider to the client using an electronic network such as the Internet.

In some cases a client may establish a connection with a content provider prior to or shortly after initiating presentation of a content item. In such cases the client may for example initiate presentation of the content item in a hybrid stream mode in which both the client stream and the content provider stream are combined to form a resulting hybrid stream for presentation. The client may then at some point during presentation of the content item detect that the content provider stream has become unavailable. In response to such a determination the client may continue to present the content item in a client stream mode in which the client stream is used for presentation of the content item without use of the content provider stream. In some cases upon detecting that the content provider stream has again become available the client may switch back into the hybrid stream mode and once again use both the client stream and the content provider stream for presentation.

In some cases the client stream may for example include features of higher importance while the content provider stream may for example include features of lower importance. Also in some cases the client stream may for example include a base feature set while the content provider stream may for example include an optional feature set. The client stream may for example include at least enough features such that the client stream alone would allow the content item to be at least temporarily presented without the need to be paused or restarted. In some cases the client stream may include lower intricacy versions of one or more objects while the content provider stream may include higher intricacy versions of one or more objects. This may for example allow various objects to appear more realistic and or more detailed when the content provider stream is included in a resulting presentation stream.

A content provider may in some cases render and transmit content including a content provider stream to clients over an electronic network such as the Internet. Content may in some cases be provided upon request to clients using for example streaming content delivery techniques. An example computing environment that enables rendering and transmission of content to clients will now be described in detail. In particular illustrates an example computing environment in which the embodiments described herein may be implemented. is a diagram schematically illustrating an example of a data center that can provide computing resources to users and which may be referred herein singularly as user or in the plural as users via user computers and which may be referred herein singularly as computer or in the plural as computers via a communications network . Data center may be configured to provide computing resources for executing applications on a permanent or an as needed basis. The computing resources provided by data center may include various types of resources such as gateway resources load balancing resources routing resources networking resources computing resources volatile and non volatile memory resources content delivery resources data processing resources data storage resources data communication resources and the like. Each type of computing resource may be general purpose or may be available in a number of specific configurations. For example data processing resources may be available as virtual machine instances that may be configured to provide various web services. In addition combinations of resources may be made available via a network and may be configured as one or more web services. The instances may be configured to execute applications including web services such as application services media services database services processing services gateway services storage services routing services security services encryption services load balancing services application services and the like. These services may be configurable with set or custom applications and may be configurable in size execution cost latency type duration accessibility and in any other dimension. These web services may be configured as available infrastructure for one or more clients and can include one or more applications configured as a platform or as software for one or more clients. These web services may be made available via one or more communications protocols. These communications protocols may include for example hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or non HTTP protocols. These communications protocols may also include for example more reliable transport layer protocols such as transmission control protocol TCP and less reliable transport layer protocols such as user datagram protocol UDP . Data storage resources may include file storage devices block storage devices and the like.

Each type or configuration of computing resource may be available in different sizes such as large resources consisting of many processors large amounts of memory and or large storage capacity and small resources consisting of fewer processors smaller amounts of memory and or smaller storage capacity. Customers may choose to allocate a number of small processing resources as web servers and or one large processing resource as a database server for example.

Data center may include servers which may be referred herein singularly as server or in the plural as servers that provide computing resources. These resources may be available as bare metal resources or as virtual machine instances and which may be referred herein singularly as virtual machine instance or in the plural as virtual machine instances . Virtual machine instances and are multiple stream virtual machine MSVM instances. The MSVM virtual machine instances and may be configured to perform all or any portion of the techniques for generating a content provider stream for multiple stream presentation in accordance with the present disclosure and described in detail below. As should be appreciated while the particular example illustrated in includes one MSVM virtual machine in each server this is merely an example. A server may include more than one MSVM virtual machine or may not include any MSVM virtual machines.

The availability of virtualization technologies for computing hardware has provided benefits for providing large scale computing resources for customers and allowing computing resources to be efficiently and securely shared between multiple customers. For example virtualization technologies may allow a physical computing device to be shared among multiple users by providing each user with one or more virtual machine instances hosted by the physical computing device. A virtual machine instance may be a software emulation of a particular physical computing system that acts as a distinct logical computing system. Such a virtual machine instance provides isolation among multiple operating systems sharing a given physical computing resource. Furthermore some virtualization technologies may provide virtual resources that span one or more physical resources such as a single virtual machine instance with multiple virtual processors that spans multiple distinct physical computing systems.

Referring to communications network may for example be a publicly accessible network of linked networks and possibly operated by various distinct parties such as the Internet. In other embodiments communications network may be a private network such as a corporate or university network that is wholly or partially inaccessible to non privileged users. In still other embodiments communications network may include one or more private networks with access to and or from the Internet.

Communication network may provide access to computers . User computers may be computers utilized by users or other customers of data center . For instance user computer or may be a server a desktop or laptop personal computer a tablet computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA an e book reader a game console a set top box or any other computing device capable of accessing data center . User computer or may connect directly to the Internet e.g. via a cable modem or a Digital Subscriber Line DSL . Although only two user computers and are depicted it should be appreciated that there may be multiple user computers.

User computers may also be utilized to configure aspects of the computing resources provided by data center . In this regard data center might provide a gateway or web interface through which aspects of its operation may be configured through the use of a web browser application program executing on user computer . Alternately a stand alone application program executing on user computer might access an application programming interface API exposed by data center for performing the configuration operations. Other mechanisms for configuring the operation of various web services available at data center might also be utilized.

Servers shown in may be standard servers configured appropriately for providing the computing resources described above and may provide computing resources for executing one or more web services and or applications. In one embodiment the computing resources may be virtual machine instances . In the example of virtual machine instances each of the servers may be configured to execute an instance manager or which may be referred herein singularly as instance manager or in the plural as instance managers capable of executing the virtual machine instances . The instance managers may be a virtual machine monitor VMM or another type of program configured to enable the execution of virtual machine instances on server for example. As discussed above each of the virtual machine instances may be configured to execute all or a portion of an application.

It should be appreciated that although the embodiments disclosed above discuss the context of virtual machine instances other types of implementations can be utilized with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. For example the embodiments disclosed herein might also be utilized with computing systems that do not utilize virtual machine instances.

In the example data center shown in a router may be utilized to interconnect the servers and . Router may also be connected to gateway which is connected to communications network . Router may be connected to one or more load balancers and alone or in combination may manage communications within networks in data center for example by forwarding packets or other data communications as appropriate based on characteristics of such communications e.g. header information including source and or destination addresses protocol identifiers size processing requirements etc. and or the characteristics of the private network e.g. routes based on network topology etc. . It will be appreciated that for the sake of simplicity various aspects of the computing systems and other devices of this example are illustrated without showing certain conventional details. Additional computing systems and other devices may be interconnected in other embodiments and may be interconnected in different ways.

In the example data center shown in a server manager is also employed to at least in part direct various communications to from and or between servers and . While depicts router positioned between gateway and server manager this is merely an exemplary configuration. In some cases for example server manager may be positioned between gateway and router . Server manager may in some cases examine portions of incoming communications from user computers to determine one or more appropriate servers to receive and or process the incoming communications. Server manager may determine appropriate servers to receive and or process the incoming communications based on factors such as an identity location or other attributes associated with user computers a nature of a task with which the communications are associated a priority of a task with which the communications are associated a duration of a task with which the communications are associated a size and or estimated resource usage of a task with which the communications are associated and many other factors. Server manager may for example collect or otherwise have access to state information and other information associated with various tasks in order to for example assist in managing communications and other operations associated with such tasks.

It should be appreciated that the network topology illustrated in has been greatly simplified and that many more networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. These network topologies and devices should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

It should also be appreciated that data center described in is merely illustrative and that other implementations might be utilized. Additionally it should be appreciated that the functionality disclosed herein might be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Other implementations should be apparent to those skilled in the art. It should also be appreciated that a server gateway or other computing device may comprise any combination of hardware or software that can interact and perform the described types of functionality including without limitation desktop or other computers database servers network storage devices and other network devices PDAs tablets cellphones wireless phones pagers electronic organizers Internet appliances television based systems e.g. using set top boxes and or personal digital video recorders and various other consumer products that include appropriate communication capabilities. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated modules may in some embodiments be combined in fewer modules or distributed in additional modules. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated modules may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

In at least some embodiments a server that implements a portion or all of one or more of the technologies described herein may include a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media. depicts a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media. In the illustrated embodiment computing device includes one or more processors and or which may be referred herein singularly as a processor or in the plural as the processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computing device further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface .

In various embodiments computing device may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processors capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor s . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing one or more desired functions such as those methods techniques and data described above are shown stored within system memory as code and data .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripherals in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computing device and other device or devices attached to a network or networks such as other computer systems or devices for example. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as types of Ethernet networks for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks SANs such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above for implementing embodiments of the corresponding methods and apparatus. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include non transitory storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to computing device via I O interface . A non transitory computer accessible storage medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM read only memory etc. that may be included in some embodiments of computing device as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as those that may be implemented via network interface . Portions or all of multiple computing devices such as those illustrated in may be used to implement the described functionality in various embodiments for example software components running on a variety of different devices and servers may collaborate to provide the functionality. In some embodiments portions of the described functionality may be implemented using storage devices network devices or special purpose computer systems in addition to or instead of being implemented using general purpose computer systems. The term computing device as used herein refers to at least all these types of devices and is not limited to these types of devices.

A compute node which may be referred to also as a computing node may be implemented on a wide variety of computing environments such as commodity hardware computers virtual machines web services computing clusters and computing appliances. Any of these computing devices or environments may for convenience be described as compute nodes.

A network set up by an entity such as a company or a public sector organization to provide one or more web services such as various types of cloud based computing or storage accessible via the Internet and or other networks to a distributed set of clients may be termed a provider network. Such a provider network may include numerous data centers hosting various resource pools such as collections of physical and or virtualized computer servers storage devices networking equipment and the like needed to implement and distribute the infrastructure and web services offered by the provider network. The resources may in some embodiments be offered to clients in various units related to the web service such as an amount of storage for storage processing capability for processing as instances as sets of related services and the like. A virtual computing instance may for example comprise one or more servers with a specified computational capacity which may be specified by indicating the type and number of CPUs the main memory size and so on and a specified software stack e.g. a particular version of an operating system which may in turn run on top of a hypervisor .

A number of different types of computing devices may be used singly or in combination to implement the resources of the provider network in different embodiments including general purpose or special purpose computer servers storage devices network devices and the like. In some embodiments a client or user may be provided direct access to a resource instance e.g. by giving a user an administrator login and password. In other embodiments the provider network operator may allow clients to specify execution requirements for specified client applications and schedule execution of the applications on behalf of the client on execution platforms such as application server instances Java virtual machines JVMs general purpose or special purpose operating systems platforms that support various interpreted or compiled programming languages such as Ruby Perl Python C C and the like or high performance computing platforms suitable for the applications without for example requiring the client to access an instance or an execution platform directly. A given execution platform may utilize one or more resource instances in some implementations in other implementations multiple execution platforms may be mapped to a single resource instance.

In many environments operators of provider networks that implement different types of virtualized computing storage and or other network accessible functionality may allow customers to reserve or purchase access to resources in various resource acquisition modes. The computing resource provider may provide facilities for customers to select and launch the desired computing resources deploy application components to the computing resources and maintain an application executing in the environment. In addition the computing resource provider may provide further facilities for the customer to quickly and easily scale up or scale down the numbers and types of resources allocated to the application either manually or through automatic scaling as demand for or capacity requirements of the application change. The computing resources provided by the computing resource provider may be made available in discrete units which may be referred to as instances. An instance may represent a physical server hardware platform a virtual machine instance executing on a server or some combination of the two. Various types and configurations of instances may be made available including different sizes of resources executing different operating systems OS and or hypervisors and with various installed software applications runtimes and the like. Instances may further be available in specific availability zones representing a logical region a fault tolerant region a data center or other geographic location of the underlying computing hardware for example. Instances may be copied within an availability zone or across availability zones to improve the redundancy of the instance and instances may be migrated within a particular availability zone or across availability zones. As one example the latency for client communications with a particular server in an availability zone may be less than the latency for client communications with a different server. As such an instance may be migrated from the higher latency server to the lower latency server to improve the overall client experience.

In some embodiments the provider network may be organized into a plurality of geographical regions and each region may include one or more availability zones. An availability zone which may also be referred to as an availability container in turn may comprise one or more distinct locations or data centers configured in such a way that the resources in a given availability zone may be isolated or insulated from failures in other availability zones. That is a failure in one availability zone may not be expected to result in a failure in any other availability zone. Thus the availability profile of a resource instance is intended to be independent of the availability profile of a resource instance in a different availability zone. Clients may be able to protect their applications from failures at a single location by launching multiple application instances in respective availability zones. At the same time in some implementations inexpensive and low latency network connectivity may be provided between resource instances that reside within the same geographical region and network transmissions between resources of the same availability zone may be even faster .

As set forth above in accordance with the disclosed techniques a content item may be presented in association with multiple presentation streams. is a diagram illustrating an example system for content presentation in association with multiple presentation streams in accordance with the present disclosure. As shown in content provider and client communicate via network which may in some cases be an electronic network such as for example the Internet or another type of wide area network WAN or local area network LAN . Content provider may for example provide one or more content providing services for providing content to clients such as client . The content providing services may reside on one or more servers. The content providing services may be scalable to meet the demands of one or more customers and may increase or decrease in capability based on the number and type of incoming client requests. Portions of content providing services may also be migrated to be placed in positions of reduced latency with requesting clients. For example content provider may determine an edge of a system or network associated with content providing services that is physically and or logically closest to client . The content provider may then for example spin up migrate resources or otherwise employ components associated with the determined edge for interacting with the client . Such an edge determination process may in some cases provide an efficient technique for identifying and employing components that are well suited to interact with a particular client and may in some embodiments reduce the latency for communications between a content provider and one or more clients.

Client and content provider may in some cases communicate for the purposes of having content provider assist with the presentation of a content item at the client . The term content as used herein refers to any presentable information and the term content item as used herein refers to any collection of any such presentable information. For example a content item may include graphics content such as a video game. In some cases a content item may include two dimensional content which as used herein refers to content that may be represented in accordance with two dimensional scenes. Also in some cases a content item may include three dimensional content which as used herein refers to content that may be represented in accordance with three dimensional scenes. The two dimensional or three dimensional scenes may be considered logical representations in the sense that they may for example not physically occupy the areas that they are intended to logically model or represent. The term scene as used herein refers to a representation that may be used in association with generation of an image. A scene may for example include or otherwise be associated with information or data that describes the scene. To present a content item scenes associated with the content item may be used to generate resulting images for display. The images may be generated by way of a process commonly referred to as rendering which may incorporate concepts such as for example projection reflection lighting shading and others. An image may include for example information associated with a displayable output such as information associated with various pixel values and or attributes.

As shown in client and content provider each execute a respective version of a content item. In particular client executes client content item version while content provider executes content provider content item version . For purposes of simplification client content item version and content provider content item version may be referred to collectively as a single content item. Thus in some cases a single content item may include two associated versions executing on the client and at the content provider . As will be described in greater detail below client content item version and content provider content item version may in some cases be designed to execute in combination with one another such that they may generate complimentary features for one or more images presented at client . In some cases for example a content creator such as a company that creates video games may market and separately distribute separate client and content provider versions of a content item to content providers and to individual clients. In other cases for example a content creator may distribute both client and content provider versions to a content provider and individual clients may then obtain the client version from the content provider or form any number of other additional parties. The client and content provider versions may be distributed using for example an electronic download by distributing various forms of storage media and the like.

As should be appreciated it is not required that client and content provider necessarily execute different versions of a content item. For example in some cases client and content provider may execute an identical version of a content item but may access or execute different portions or features of the identical content item version.

Client includes client state component while content provider includes content provider state component . In general client state component and content provider state component may for example collect maintain store and exchange state information associated with presentation of a content item. Such state information may include for example information associated with various features events actions or operations associated with the presentation of a content item.

In some cases client state component may collect state information associated with input provided by a user of client . For example in some cases client may have control over certain entities associated with the presented content item. Such entities may include for example various characters vehicles weapons athletic equipment and the like. For example video games often allow different participants to control one or more different characters or other entities. Thus in some cases client state component may collect state information associated with a character or other entity controlled by client . For example a controlled character may be moved to a new location or perform an action such as firing a weapon or swinging a golf club. State information associated with these example actions may for example be collected by client state component . Additionally client state component may collect for example information associated with a user selection of a particular entity for control by the user or a user selection to switch control from one entity to another.

State information collected by client state information component is however not limited to information associated with user input and or entities controlled by the client . For example client state information component may also collect state information associated with various features events actions or operations associated with client stream or with any other aspect of the presentation of a content item.

Content provider state component may also collect state information associated with presentation of a content item. For example content provider state information component may collect state information associated with various features events actions or operations associated with content provider stream or with any other aspect of the presentation of a content item.

Client state component and content provider state component may in some cases periodically exchange state information with another. In some cases client state component and content provider state component may exchange all or almost all collected state information. However it is not required that all or almost all collected state information be exchanged between client state component and content provider state component . In some cases client state component may send to content provider state component only a portion of collected state information that is considered to be necessary for the generation of content provider stream . Similarly in some cases content provider state component may send to client state component only a portion of collected state information that is considered to be necessary for the generation of client stream .

State information may for example be exchanged between client state component and content provider state component periodically at any desired time or interval. Client state component and content provider state component may for example exchange state information simultaneously or using different transmissions to one another at different times. In some cases client state component and content provider state component may periodically send or exchange updates of state information. Such updates may for example include only state information that was not sent in a previous update or transmission thereby conserving bandwidth by not re sending information that was sent previously.

In some cases a presented content item may be presented at multiple clients connected to content provider . For example the presented content item may be a multi player video game with multiple different clients each controlling a different respective character in the video game. In such cases each of the participating client devices may for example periodically exchange state information with content provider state component . The state information sent from content provider state component to each participating client may then for example include state information received from each of the other participating clients.

Client may use client state component in combination with client content item version to provide input to client rendering component for generation of client stream . Similarly content provider may use content provider state component in combination with content provider content item version to content provider rendering component for generation of content provider stream . Client rendering component and content provider rendering component may include for example a graphics processing unit and the like. Client stream and content provider stream may each include for example corresponding images portions of images or other information that is usable in association with a resulting display image. For example in some cases streams and or may include information that describes or otherwise corresponds to various features associated with a presentation of a content item. A display image is an image that is displayed by the client .

Encoding and compression components may encode and compress content provider stream prior to its transmission to client . Encoding and compression components may for example include an encoder a compressor a codec and the like. Encoding and compression components may generally use any appropriate technique to encode and or compress content provider stream for transmission to client . In some cases it may not be necessary to encode and or compress the content provider stream . After any necessary encoding and or compressing operations are performed content provider stream may be transmitted over network to client .

In some cases content provider stream may be transmitted in accordance with streaming content delivery techniques in which content may be constantly received and presented by client device . Also in some cases content provider stream may be transmitted by a dedicated respective server associated with client . The use of a separate respective streaming server may be advantageous for example because it may in some cases enable improved ability to adjust various transmission characteristics to individual clients based on factors such as quality of service associated with a network connection to each client. The adjusted transmission characteristics may include for example encoding rates transmission speed image quality and other relevant factors. It is noted however that the disclosed techniques are not limited to the use of separate servers for transmission to each client. Rather the disclosed techniques may employ any number of servers each for transmission to any number of different clients. It is also noted that the disclosed techniques are not limited to use with streaming technology and that other content delivery techniques may be employed.

Upon being received by client content provider stream may be decoded and or decompressed by decoding and decompression components . Decoding and decompression components may for example include a decoder a de compressor a codec and the like. Decoding and decompression components may generally use any appropriate technique to decode and or decompress content provider stream . As set forth above in some cases content provider stream may not be encoded and or compressed and therefore decoding and or decompression may be unnecessary.

After any necessary decoding or decompressing content provider stream may be provided in combination with client stream to stream processing component . Stream processing component may for example select various features of one or more of content provider stream and client stream to form a resulting presentation stream. The resulting presentation stream may be presented by presentation components which may include for example a display screen a monitor audio components such as speakers control panels and the like.

The term feature as used herein refers to any portion of an image or other collection of information. A feature may be for example a particular pixel or collection of pixels. A feature may be all or any portion of one or more colors textures shapes patterns or other visual effects. A feature may be for example all or any portion of a particular object. A feature may also be for example all or any portion of a collection of objects. A feature may be for example all or any portion of a particular asset. A feature may also be for example all or any portion of a collection of assets. A feature may also be for example all or any portion of an entity such as a tree fire water a cloud a cloth clothing a human an animal and others. For example a feature may be a portion of a tree or a portion of a cloth. A feature may also for example include all or any portion of a collection of objects entities and or assets. A feature may also be or include audio information. A feature may also be or include any information that at least in part describes or indicates anything mentioned above in this paragraph.

In some cases for one or more images displayed at client in association with the presented content item at least some of the features in an image may be distributed between client stream and content provider stream . Features in the client stream may be referred to as client stream features while features in the content provider stream may be referred to as content provider stream features. Thus for example a particular image or other portion of information from client stream may be combined with a counterpart image or other portion of information from content provider stream to form a resulting image for display at client . In some cases in addition to video features client stream and or content provider stream may also include or indicate audio features.

In some cases client stream and content provider stream may not be precisely synchronized with one another with respect to a time at which each stream is received by stream processing component . For example in some cases an image in content provider stream may be received by stream processing component either before or after receiving a counterpart image from client stream . This lack of precise synchronization may be due to factors such as network latency or processing latency at client and or content provider . One or more synchronization techniques may be employed to assist stream combination with identifying counterpart images or image portions in content provider stream and client stream . One example synchronization technique may involve assigning identifiers to images or other portions of information in client stream and content provider stream . The assigned identifiers may include for example sequence identifiers timestamps and the like. Stream processing component may for example identify counterpart images by matching identifiers to images or other portions of information in each of the streams and .

As set forth above in some cases a connection between client and content provider may become limited or disrupted for certain periods during a presentation of a content item. For example client may be a mobile device or another transportable device that changes locations during a content presentation session. Such a change in location may cause the client to pass through or relocate to an area with poor quality of service and or lack of connectivity to the content provider. In some cases even if client does not change locations changing network conditions may also potentially reduce quality of service and or terminate connectivity.

If client becomes disconnected from content provider during a content presentation session then this may result in a scenario in which content provider stream becomes at least temporarily unavailable to client . Additionally in some cases even if a connection is maintained a quality of network service may become so low that content provider stream cannot be received at a necessary quality and or within a necessary time period for display.

In some cases when content provider stream becomes at least temporarily unavailable to client stream processing component may pass client stream along to presentation components without any additional features from content provider stream . This may in some cases be referred to as a client stream operating mode because the resulting presentation stream is based on client stream without additional input from content provider stream .

By contrast in some cases when content provider stream is available to client stream processing component may combine client stream with content provider stream to form a resulting presentation stream as described above. This may in some cases be referred to as a hybrid stream operating mode because the resulting presentation stream is a hybrid stream based on both client stream and content provider stream . As should be appreciated the terms hybrid stream operating mode and client stream operating mode are used herein merely for purposes of simplification and are not meant to imply that a client is necessarily required to employ two distinct modes of operation in association with the combination of client stream and content provider stream .

Any combination of appropriate techniques may be employed by client to determine when the content provider stream becomes unavailable. For example in some cases client may include one or more components that monitor the connection between client and content provider . These monitoring components may in some cases alert stream processing component when the connection to content provider is terminated or when network quality of service falls below minimum threshold conditions. This may cause stream processing component to at least temporarily operate in the client stream operating mode. Additionally the monitoring components may in some cases alert stream processing component when the connection to content provider is resumed or when network quality of service rises above minimum threshold conditions. This may cause stream processing component to at least temporarily operate in the hybrid stream operating mode.

Also in some cases a maximum acceptable delay period may be established for receiving images from content provider . For example when a particular image is received in client stream a timing component may be employed to initiate counting of a delay period for receiving a counterpart image in content provider stream . If the counterpart image from content provider stream is received at any point prior to expiration of the delay period then the counterpart image from the content provider stream may be successfully combined with the image from client stream to form a hybrid image. By contrast if the counterpart image from content provider stream is not received prior to expiration of the delay period then content provider stream may be determined to be unavailable and the image from content stream may be presented without any added features from the content provider . As set forth above a number of techniques such as sequence identifiers and timestamps may be employed for identifying counterpart images in content provider stream and client stream .

In some cases features associated with a content item may be distributed between client stream and content provider stream based on a level of importance of the features. For example client stream may in some cases include more important features while the content provider stream may in some cases include less important features. As another example client stream may in some cases include a base feature set while the content provider stream may in some cases include an optional feature set. The client stream may for example include at least enough features such that the client stream alone would allow the content item to be at least temporarily presented without the need to be paused or restarted. In some cases if content provider stream becomes temporarily unavailable during presentation of a content item it may be desirable to include in client stream at least enough features such that the client stream alone would allow the content item to be at least temporarily presented until content provider stream again becomes available or presentation of the content item is completed.

As an example for a content item that is a basketball video game client stream may include features of higher importance such as the active players the ball and the baskets. By contrast content provider stream may include features of lower importance such as spectators in the crowd a scoreboard various advertising billboards throughout an arena and a bench where reserve players are seated. In this example if the content provider stream were to become unavailable the example features in the content provider stream would likely not be required in order to at least temporarily continue playing of the basketball game. By contrast it would likely be difficult to continue playing of the basketball without the active players the ball or baskets.

In some cases features associated with a content item may be distributed between client stream and content provider stream based on a level of intricacy of the features. For example in some cases the client stream may include lower intricacy versions of one or more objects while the content provider stream may include higher intricacy versions of one or more objects. This may for example allow various objects to appear more realistic and or more detailed when the content provider stream is included in a resulting presentation stream. This may also for example create an appearance that a level of visibility has increased for a character and or for one or more portions of an image. For example client stream may include a cloth that is depicted as a plain color with no pattern or design. By contrast content provider stream may include the same cloth with an intricate pattern that includes multiple different shapes textures and colors.

As another example in some cases client stream may provide higher levels of detail for foreground objects and lower levels of detail for background objects. By contrast in some cases content provider stream may supplement the content stream by providing higher levels of detail for background objects that are not present in the client stream . In these cases when the content provider stream is included in a resulting presentation stream it may appear as if a distance of visibility from an image viewpoint has increased. By contrast when the content provider stream is not included in a resulting presentation stream it may appear as if a distance of visibility from an image viewpoint has decreased.

In some cases stream processing component or another component may insert certain visual effects in an image or series of images in order to make the inclusion or exclusion of content provider stream appear more natural to a user. For example in some cases when content stream is unavailable a foggy effect may be inserted into an image. As another example the sun or another light source may become obscured by a cloud or another object. These visual effects may in some cases help to create an impression that there is natural cause within the context of a content item for portions of the displayed output to temporarily appear to be less detailed or less visible.

In some cases the distribution of features between client stream and or content provider stream may be adjusted based on state information or any other appropriate information. As an example a particular video game may include two characters which will be referred to as a first character and a second character. At the start of the video game presentation a user at client may select to have control over the first character. An indication of this selection may for example be collected by client state component and in some cases communicated to content provider state component over network seen in . As a result of this selection the selected first character may for example be included in client stream while the non selected second character may for example be included in content provider stream . However at some subsequent time during the presentation of the video game the user at client may decide to change the character selection such that the user s control is switched from the first character to the second character. An indication of this change of selection may for example be collected by client state component and in some cases communicated to content provider state component over network . As a result of this change of selection for subsequently generated images the selected second character may for example be included in client stream while the non selected first character may for example be included in content provider stream .

Some example hybrid stream feature distribution approaches will now be described in detail with reference to . is a diagram illustrating a first example hybrid stream feature distribution approach that may be used in some embodiments. In particular depicts a scenario in which different objects may be included in content provider stream and in client stream . As shown in content provider stream image is combined with a counterpart client stream image to form a hybrid stream image . Content provider stream image includes square shaped content provider objects A C. Client stream image includes circle shaped client objects A C. When content provider stream image and client stream image are combined the resulting hybrid stream image includes both content provider objects A C and client objects A C.

As set forth above client objects A C may in some cases include objects of higher importance within the context of the content item while content provider objects A C may in some cases include objects of lower importance within the context of the content item. For example client objects A C may in some cases include characters or other entities controlled by client while content provider objects A C may in some cases include characters or other entities not controlled by client . As another example client objects A C may in some cases include certain foreground objects while content provider objects A C may in some cases include certain background objects.

As shown lower intricacy cloth features include only a single color with no shapes or patterns. By contrast higher intricacy cloth features include a pattern having various different lines and shapes. Although not shown in higher intricacy cloth features may also include for example various different textures shading reflectivity and other details that may not in some cases be included in lower intricacy cloth .

It is once again noted that each of the above described feature distribution examples between client stream and content provider stream are non limiting. Any combination of the above described feature distribution examples and any other additional or alternative desired feature distribution examples may be employed in accordance with the present techniques.

At operation generation of a client stream is initiated. As set forth above the client stream may include for example images or portions of images in association with the presented content item. As set forth above the client stream may be generated based on for example information in the client content item version in combination with state information associated with presentation of the content item. The state information used to generate the client stream may include for example state information collected by the client device throughout the presentation of the content item. Also the state information used to generate the client stream may include for example state information received from the content provider as a result of a state information exchange process with the content provider which is discussed in greater detail below with reference to operation . Some example contents of the client stream as well as some example differences between the contents of the client stream and the content provider stream are discussed in detail above.

At operation the client device determines whether the content provider stream is available. As set forth above in some cases the availability of the content provider stream may be determined based at least in part on a determination of whether the client is connected to the content provider. The client and the content provider may for example be connected via an electronic network such as the Internet or another WAN or LAN network. As set forth above in some cases the client may attempt to establish a connection to the content provider when the content item presentation session is initiated at operation . In some cases the content provider stream may be determined to be unavailable when the client and content provider are not connected. By contrast in some cases the content provider stream may be determined to be available when the client and content provider are connected.

Also in some cases the availability of the content provider stream may be determined based at least in part on a quality associated with a connection between the client and the content provider. The quality of the connection may be determined based on for example characteristics such as bandwidth latency throughput and the like. In some cases a threshold level of quality may be determined in association with the content provider stream. For example the threshold level of quality may sometimes indicate a level of quality that is considered to be sufficient for receiving the content provider stream within a certain time period and or at certain levels of image quality. In some cases the content provider stream may be determined to be unavailable when the quality of the connection is below the threshold level of quality. By contrast in some cases the content provider stream may be determined to be available when the quality of the connection is at or above the threshold level of quality.

Also in some cases the content provider stream may become unavailable for example due to various problems at the content provider or due to a decision by the content provider not to transmit the content provider stream. Sometimes in these scenarios the content provider may send a notification to the client to indicate for example one or more problems or a decision not to transmit the content provider stream. Also in some cases the client may determine that the content provider stream is unavailable by determining that the content provider stream and or certain portions of the content provider stream have not been received within a certain time period.

At operation a state information exchange process with the content provider is initiated or resumed. For purposes of simplification it is assumed for the particular example of that state information is exchanged between the client and the content provider when the content provider stream is determined to be available. It is also assumed for the particular example of that state information is not exchanged between the client and the content provider when the content provider stream is determined to be unavailable. However it is noted that the criteria for the exchange of state information and the availability of the content provider stream need not necessarily be the same. For example in some cases it may be possible to exchange state information between the client and the content provider even when the content provider stream is unavailable to the client. By contrast in some cases in some cases it may not be possible to exchange state information between the client and the content provider even when the content provider stream is available to the client. Also it is noted that the exchange of state information between client and server is not necessarily required in order to perform multiple stream content presentation techniques or any of the disclosed techniques. In some cases state information may only be sent from the content provider to the client or may only be sent from the client to the content provider or may not be exchanged at all.

The state information exchange may be initiated for example upon an initial performance of operation in association with presentation of the content item while the state information exchange may be resumed for example upon subsequent performances of operation in association with presentation of the content item. As part of operation state information may for example be exchanged between the client and the content provider periodically at any desired time or interval. The client and the content provider may for example exchange state information simultaneously or using different transmissions to one another at different times. In some cases the client and the content provider may exchange state information updates which may for example include only state information that was not sent in a previous update or transmission thereby conserving bandwidth by not re sending information that was sent previously.

As set forth above the exchanged state information may include for example information associated with various features events actions or operations associated with the presentation of a content item. In some cases state information provided by the client to the content provider may include for example state information associated with actions performed by characters or other entities controlled by the client. State information provided by the client to the content provider may also include for example state information associated with a user selection of a particular entity for control by the user or a user selection to switch control from one entity to another. State information provided by the client to the content provider may also include for example state information associated with various features events actions or operations associated with client stream or with any other aspect of the presentation of a content item. By contrast state information provided by the content provider to the client may include for example state information associated with various features events actions or operations associated with content provider stream or with any other aspect of the presentation of a content item.

As also set forth above it is not required that all or almost all collected state information be exchanged between the client and the content provider. In some cases the client may send to the content provider only state information that is considered to be necessary for the generation of the content provider stream. Similarly in some cases the content provider may send to the client only state information that is considered to be necessary for the generation of the client stream.

At operation reception of the content provider stream by the client is initiated or resumed. Reception of the content provider stream may be initiated for example upon an initial performance of operation in association with presentation of the content item while reception of the content provider stream may be resumed for example upon subsequent performances of operation in association with presentation of the content item. As set forth above the content provider stream may include for example images or portions of images in association with the presented content item. The content provider stream may be generated based on for example information in the content provider content item version in combination with state information associated with presentation of the content item. The state information used to generate the content provider stream may include for example state information collected by the content provider throughout the presentation of the content item. Also the state information used to generate the content provider stream may include for example state information received from the client as a result of the state information exchange process with the client discussed above with reference to operation .

At operation the client displays images in association with the client stream and the content provider stream. As set forth above the display of images at operation may include or involve for example combining one or more features of each image or other portion of information from the client stream with one or more features of a counterpart image or other portion of information from the content provider stream to form a resulting display image that is displayed at the client. This may include for example combining one or more objects from a client stream image with one or more other objects from a counterpart content provider stream image. This may also include for example combining one or more features of a version of an object from a client stream image with one or more other features of another version of the object from a counterpart content provider stream image. As described in detail above in some cases the client stream may include features of higher importance while the content provider stream may include features of lower importance. Also in some cases the client stream may for example include a base feature set while the content provider stream may for example include an optional feature set. The client stream may for example include at least enough features such that the client stream alone would allow the content item to be at least temporarily presented without the need to be paused or restarted. In some cases the client stream may include lower intricacy versions of one or more objects while the content provider stream may include higher intricacy versions of one or more objects. This may for example allow various objects to appear more realistic and or more detailed when the content provider stream is included in a resulting presentation stream.

At operation the client determines whether the content provider stream has become unavailable. As set forth above in some cases the content provider stream may be continually monitored to determine its availability. Also in some cases an existing connection between the client and the content provider may be continually monitored to detect disconnections and or service reductions and problems. Thus in some cases the determination at operation may be performed repeatedly for as long as the client is connected to the content provider prior to termination of the presentation of the content item. Some example criteria for determining the availability and or unavailability of the content provider stream are described in detail above with reference to operation and are not repeated here.

If the content item presentation terminates before the content provider stream becomes unavailable then at operation the content item presentation session is terminated. By contrast if the content provider stream becomes unavailable prior to termination of the content item presentation then the process proceeds to operation at which the exchange of state information between the client and the content provider and the reception of the content provider stream by the client are at least temporarily stopped. As noted above however while the particular example of assumes that the state information exchange process is stopped when the content provider stream becomes unavailable to the client this need not necessarily occur in all cases. For example in some cases it may be possible to exchange state information between the client and the content provider even when the content provider stream is unavailable to the client.

When the content provider stream is unavailable the client displays images in association with the client stream at operation . As set forth above the display of images in association with the client stream at operation may include or involve for example displaying images or other portions of information from the client stream without combining those images or portions of information with counterpart images or information from the content provider stream. In some cases however images or other portions of information from the client stream may be modified before being displayed at the client. As set forth above the client stream may include at least enough features such that the client stream alone would allow the content item to be at least temporarily presented without the need to be paused or restarted. Thus for example when the content provider stream is unavailable the client stream alone may be sufficient to allow content item presentation to continue until either the content provider stream becomes available or the content item presentation terminates.

At operation the client determines whether the content provider stream has become available. As set forth above in some cases the content provider stream may be continually monitored to determine its availability. Also in some cases communication links may be continually monitored to detect availability for network connections and network characteristics such as quality of service available bandwidth and the like. Thus in some cases the determination at operation may be performed repeatedly prior to the termination of the presentation of the content item. Some example criteria for determining the availability and or unavailability of the content provider stream are described in detail above with reference to operation and are not repeated here.

If the content provider stream becomes available prior to termination of the presentation of the content item then the process proceeds to operation . By contrast if the content item presentation terminates before a sufficient connection to the content provider becomes available then at operation the content item presentation session is terminated.

In some scenarios when the content provider stream is available the content provider stream may be used to generate resulting images at the client without any further input from or combination with the client stream. For purposes of simplicity these scenarios may be referred to as a complete content provider stream mode. Thus for example when operating in the complete content provider stream mode operation may be altered such that images are displayed based only on the content provider stream without any input from the client stream. In some cases the client stream may not be generated during all of portions of time when the client is operating in the complete content provider stream mode. However in some cases when operating in the complete content provider stream mode the client may continue to receive state information from the content provider and or to exchange state information with the content provider. Receiving state information at the client from the content provider may allow for example a seamless or near seamless state transition when a sufficient connection to the content provider becomes unavailable.

In some cases to allow for improved operation in the complete content provider stream mode the content provider stream may include more important features in addition to less important features. In some cases the content provider may have access to two versions of a particular content item. For example the content provider may have access to a limited feature content item version for operating in the hybrid stream mode where features from the content provider stream and the client stream are combined. Also for example the content provider may have access to a full or extended feature content item version for operating in the complete content provider stream mode where the content provider stream is not combined with the client stream. In some cases operation may be switched as desired at any time between the hybrid stream mode and the content provider stream mode based on for example network conditions a request from the client or other appropriate reasons.

Additionally in some cases certain content provider stream features may be saved by the client. This may for example allow the saved content provider stream features to be inserted into subsequent displayed images even after the content provider stream becomes unavailable. For example a content provider stream image may include a representation of a particular car that is not included in the client stream. The representation of the car may in some cases be saved by the client and then inserted into subsequent displayed images after the content provider stream has become unavailable.

Some example content provider procedures in accordance with the disclosed techniques will now be described in detail. In particular in some cases the content provider may receive a request from a client to initiate providing of a content provider stream associated with a content item. The request may sometimes indicate that the content provider stream will be combined with a counterpart client stream associated with the content item. However it is not required that the request expressly indicates that such a combination will be performed. In some cases the request may include any information sufficient to at least in part directly or indirectly trigger a transmission of a content provider stream.

In some cases upon receiving the request for the content provider stream the content provider may begin to exchange state information with the client in association with the content item. Some example processes for exchanging state information between the content provider and the client are described in detail above and are not repeated here. In some cases state information may only be sent from the content provider to the client or may only be sent from the client to the content provider. In some cases no state information may be exchanged between the client and the content provider. Also in some cases upon receiving the request for the content provider stream the content provider may begin to generate and transmit the content provider stream. Some example processes for generating and transmitting the content provider stream are described in detail above and are not repeated here.

In some cases the content provider may monitor a connection to the client to detect a disconnection from the client and or a quality of service associated with the connection. In some cases when the content provider becomes disconnected from the client the content provider may at least temporarily stop the generation and or transmission of the content provider stream. Also in some cases the content provider may monitor its communication links to detect a reconnection to the client. In some cases when the content provider becomes reconnected to the client the content provider may resume the generation and or transmission of the content provider stream.

Furthermore in some cases when the quality of the connection to the client drops below a threshold level of quality the content provider may also at least temporarily stop the generation and or transmission of the content provider stream. When the quality of the connection to the client improves to meet or exceed threshold level of quality the content provider may resume the generation and or transmission of the content provider stream.

As set forth above in some cases during periods when the content provider has stopped transmitting the content provider stream or the content provider stream is otherwise unavailable to the client the client may continue to generate a counterpart client stream that may allow presentation of a content item to at least temporarily continue. In some cases when transmission of the content provider stream is started or resumed state information provided by the client may indicate an appropriate point or context at which to start or resume the generation and or transmission of the content provider stream.

In some cases the content provider stream may be generated and transmitted to multiple clients. This may occur for example when the content provider stream corresponds to a multi player video game. In some such cases when a particular client connection is terminated or experiencing poor quality the content provider may stop transmitting the content provider stream to the particular client and may continue to generate and transmit the content provider stream to other clients.

In some cases the content provider may determine that due to technical malfunctions errors or other problems it is unable to successfully generate and transmit the content provider stream. In such cases the content provider may sometimes send a notification to the client to indicate that the content provider stream will not be provided.

Also in some cases the content provider may make a decision not to generate and transmit the content provider stream. Such a decision may be made for example prior to starting the transmission of the content provider stream or at any point during the transmission of the content provider stream. Such a decision may be made based on any combination of different factors. For example the content provider may determine that it lacks available resources necessary to start or continue with the generation and transmission of the content provider stream. This may occur for example when the generation and transmission of the content provider stream would not allow the content provider to perform one or more higher priority tasks. For example if a content provider experiences a spike in usage from higher priority clients then the content provider may decide to offload an existing transmission to a particular lower priority client such that the particular lower priority client at least temporarily displays images from the client stream without combination with the content provider stream. When the content provider makes a decision not to generate and transmit the content provider stream a notification of the decision may sometimes be sent to the client.

The content provider may also make a decision to start or resume the generation and transmission of the content provider stream. Such a decision may be made for example when the content provider determines that resources necessary to start or resume the generation and transmission of the content provider stream have been released from usage by other tasks or otherwise become available.

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computers or computer processors. The code modules may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable medium or computer storage device such as hard drives solid state memory optical disc and or the like. The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of non transitory computer storage such as e.g. volatile or non volatile storage.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain methods or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

It will also be appreciated that various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used and that these items or portions thereof may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or systems may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing systems via inter computer communication. Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the systems and or modules may be implemented or provided in other ways such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the modules systems and data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection. The systems modules and data structures may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission media including wireless based and wired cable based media and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

While certain example embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus nothing in the foregoing description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic step module or block is necessary or indispensable. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions disclosed herein. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of certain of the inventions disclosed herein.

