---

title: Authorizing local application activity using remotely defined security data
abstract: Systems and methods, including computer software adapted to perform certain operations, can be implemented for preventing content received from non-trusted sources from accessing protected data. A sequence of instructions and multiple permission indicators associated with the sequence of instructions are received. One or more of permission indicators are associated with a protected activity. An instruction within the sequence of instructions associated with the protected activity is identified. A determination is made whether execution of the identified instruction is permitted based, at least in part, on the one or more permission indicators, and the protected activity is performed if execution of the identified instruction is permitted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384344&OS=09384344&RS=09384344
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09384344
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130401
---
The application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 945 235 filed Nov. 26 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 413 233 issued Apr. 2 2013 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to providing and enforcing security procedures in computer systems in general and more specifically relates to providing and enforcing security procedures in mobile information systems. In a mobile information system subscribers may register with a wireless service provider to receive various types of content from the service provider on their mobile devices. The subscriber s mobile device may include a resident interactive multimedia application environment that includes capabilities for displaying graphics video animation audio and the like. Examples of such interactive multimedia application environments are the different versions of the Adobe Flash based platform. Content provided to mobile devices equipped with such application environments is sometimes delivered in executable file formats such as the precisely described SWF small web format binary vector graphics format. SWF provides a compact TAG based easily extendible format that supports streaming bitmap and vector graphics and scripting.

Computer systems such as mobile information systems may include security mechanisms to prevent content received from non trusted sources from accessing protected data. For example a subscriber to a mobile information system may also subscribe to phone services from the wireless provider. Call logs address books and other data files associated with the phone services may be stored in a protected area inaccessible to content received from non trusted sources. Such systems may also include security procedures to prevent content received from non trusted sources from performing unauthorized activities. For example a mobile device application executing a SWF file originating from a particular network domain might allow the SWF file to interact only with content originating from that particular network domain. Any attempt by the SWF file to interact with content originating from a different network domain may be blocked.

This specification describes technologies relating to providing and enforcing security procedures in computer systems.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a method that includes receiving a sequence of instructions and one or more permission indicator associated with the sequence of instructions. A first of the permission indicators is associated with a protected activity. An instruction within the sequence of instructions that is associated with the protected activity is identified. A determination is made whether execution of the identified instruction is permitted based at least in part on the first permission indicator. The protected activity is performed if execution of the identified instruction is permitted. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

In another general aspect a system includes a user interface device a persistent storage device and one or more processors operable to interact with the user interface device and the persistent storage device. The one or more processors receive a transmission from a remote source. The transmission includes a sequence of instructions and a permissions data structure associated with the sequence of instructions. The permissions data structure includes one or more permission indicators associated with one or more protected activities. The sequence of instructions and the permissions data structure are stored in the persistent storage device. The sequence of instructions and the permissions data structure are retrieved from the persistent storage device in response to a stimulus received through the user interface device. A determination that a first protected activity is prohibited based at least in part on the one or more permission indicators and the sequence of instructions are executed to block the first protected activity. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding methods apparatus and computer program products.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. The sequence of instructions and the one or more permission indicators are received in a single transmission. The sequence of instructions and the one or more permission indicators are received by a mobile device. The received sequence of instructions and the received at least one permission indicator are stored in a persistent storage device on the mobile device. An update to the one or more permission indicators is received and stored in the persistent storage device on the mobile device. The sequence of instructions and the one or more permission indicators are received from a remote source in communication with the mobile device. The value of the first permission indicator is set at the remote source. The one or more permission indicators include multiple permission bits and the first permission indicator corresponds to a first of the permission bits. A second of the one or more permission indicators is associated with a different protected activity and the second permission indicator corresponds to a second of the permission bits. The sequence of instructions is included in a SWF file. The permission indicators are associated with an information source. When an updated value for the permission indicator is received the updated value for the permission indicator replaces the permission indicator in the persistent storage device. Prior to identifying the instruction a sequence of instructions is received and stored in the persistent storage device. The permission indicator and the sequence of instructions are stored at a location in the persistent storage device associated with the information source. The permission indicator occupies one of multiple permission indicator positions within a permissions data structure and the permission indicator is assigned to the permission indicator position at the remote source.

The one or more processors include a client operable to interact with the remote source through a data communication network and the remote source is operable to interact with the client as a server. The number of permission bits is greater than the number of permission indicators.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Permissions associated with protected activities in a mobile information system can be configured at a central remote location and propagated to individual mobile devices for enforcement by preconfigured software on the mobile devices. Permissions associated with protected activities can be added removed or updated at the central location by a mobile service provider or other trusted third party. Individual mobile device subscribers need not be aware that updates have occurred. New content provided to individual mobile devices can be accompanied by permissions restricting the activities of the content. Content from trusted providers can be accompanied by permissions allowing the content to perform restricted activities. Different sets of permissions can be associated with different content channels allowing content from trusted sources greater access to restricted activities while restricting content from non trusted sources. Received permissions can be stored on the mobile device and are therefore immediately available even when the device is not in communication with the central location. Application extension developers can define and implement extension specific permissions that are configured at the central location and provided to the extensions on the mobile devices. Individual protected activities can be governed by individual permissions.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

When a computer system such as a mobile information system is configured to receive content from a non trusted source the computer system may implement security procedures to prevent the content from accessing protected data or from performing unauthorized activities In a mobile information system subscribers may register with a wireless service provider to receive various types of content from the service provider on their mobile devices. Third party content providers may also register or contract with the wireless service provider to provide various types of content to subscribers over a network such as the Internet via the service provider. The subscriber s mobile device may include a resident interactive multimedia. application environment that includes capabilities for displaying graphics video animation audio and the like. Examples of such interactive multimedia application environments are the different versions of the Adobe Flash based platform. Content provided to mobile devices equipped with such application environments are sometimes delivered executable file formats such as the precisely described SWF binary vector graphics format. SWF provides a compact TAG based easily extendible format that supports streaming bitmap and vector graphics and scripting. Content may include other data or files such as a feature film an executable software update or a software extension.

In some implementations wireless service providers deliver content to the mobile devices of their subscribers in the form of information channels. Each information channel may originate with the wireless service provider or may originate with third party content providers. When a subscriber subscribes to a particular information channel the wireless service provider delivers content associated with that information channel to the subscriber s mobile device. The content may be delivered as a channel feed to a file system i.e. a feed store located on the mobile device. The feed store may be logically divided into separate compartments or memory allocations with each channel assigned its own compartment on a static or dynamic basis. Periodically the wireless service provider may deliver channel content updates to the mobile device. The updates may be provided according to a predetermined schedule in response to a request from the mobile device in response to an availability of updates at the content provider in response to an expiration or consumption e.g. viewing of content previously delivered to the mobile device or in some other way. Because the channel content is stored locally on the mobile device and frequently updated the subscriber is usually able to access the channel without having to wait for channel content or content updates to be delivered over the network. The channel content may be automatically delivered to the mobile device in the background i.e. without a specific user request and or while the mobile device is otherwise idle or being used to view other channels or perform other operations.

For example a wireless service provider may offer several different information channels to its subscribers. Some information channels may be freely available to all subscribers while other information channels may require premium subscriber status. The content of some information channels may originate with the wireless service provider. The content of other information channels may originate with third parties that have registered with the service provider. The content of still other information channels may originate with other sources. The offered information channels may include a premium news channel. If a subscriber has subscribed to the premium news channel then the wireless service provider may establish a channel feed to periodically or sporadically deliver content from the premium news channel to the feed store located on the subscriber s mobile device. When the subscriber accesses the premium news channel processes on the mobile device retrieve the content from the feed store. Even if the subscriber rarely or even never accesses the premium news channel the channel feed may provide for regular updates of channel content in the feed store based for example on an expiration of content and or an availability of new content.

Channel content may be in the form of text images vector graphics bitmaps frame based animation video or in any other format supported by the mobile information system and may include executable scripts or other sequences of instructions. Depending on the format of the channel content an application running on the mobile device such as a media player or other type of runtime component may be invoked to run the script execute the instructions or otherwise display the content. One example of such a mobile information system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 791 298 filed Mar. 1 2004 and entitled MOBILE RICH MEDIA INFORMATION SYSTEMS the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

To prevent channel content such as script files or other executable files from performing unauthorized activities the mobile information system may be configured to associate permissions with the information channel. For example a wireless service provider administering the mobile information system e.g. T Mobile Verizon Wireless or Sprint Nextel upon establishing a new information channel may associate a set of permissions with the information channel. The mobile information system may then communicate some or all of these permissions by including permission indicators in the channel feed established by the wireless service provider over a wireless network either as part of the feed for each channel as part of a separate service maintenance channel or as overhead data separate from the channel feed. Processes on the mobile device may then review these permission indicators in determining whether an information channel is allowed access to restricted activities and data.

At a high level server system may retrieve information from content providers organize the retrieved information along with some or all of any associated permissions into individual information channel feeds and deliver the information channel feeds to client . Client may then store the information channel feeds including the associated permissions in feed store . In addition to the dynamic channel feeds received from server system feed store may also contain one or more static feeds . Static feed content and associated permissions may be preloaded on mobile device instead of delivered by server system . In addition to providing information channel feeds may also be used to provide services such as a home page user interface calendar user interface and services or other user interfaces or specialized application services. From a security standpoint there may be little or no difference between static feeds and dynamic feeds or between information channels and service channels.

When a subscriber attempts to access a particular information channel for example channel client may retrieve channel B content and channel B permissions from feed store . Depending on the format of channel B content client may provide channel B content to runtime component . In some implementations channel B content is a SWF file and runtime component is an Adobe Flash based runtime component. If channel B content attempts to access restricted data or attempts to perform a protected activity client may check channel B permissions to determine whether to allow the attempted data access or protected activity. Client and runtime component may form two parts of a single application running on mobile device . The application may include a virtual machine running on a device platform .

In some implementations the functionality of runtime component may be extended. Such an extension may be used to expand the functionality of runtime component such as by providing support for additional commands. For example a service provider may wish to provide channel content that displays or otherwise accesses or manipulates data from local data such as call log . The service provider may develop a custom command or instruction that can be provided in the channel feed and stored in feed store . Such a command may be unrecognized by unextended runtime component . The service provider may then install a custom extension on mobile device that recognizes and performs the custom command or instruction effectively increasing the number of commands or instructions recognized by runtime component . In another example a third party content provider may develop a custom command or instruction to perform some other activity. Extension may be distributed preinstalled on mobile device or may be downloaded to mobile device for example over wireless network .

Client provides a framework for displaying and managing content received on mobile device including content received from server system . Client may be responsible for the caching and rendering of received content for communication with server system and for various other tasks. Client may manage subscriber input and memory devices and . In addition client may manage security features that protect the privacy of subscribers and content and prevent unauthorized parties from interfering with the service. In some implementations client is distributed preinstalled on mobile device while in other implementations client or an update to client is downloaded to mobile device for example over wireless network .

Client may access runtime component to render a user interface and content. In some implementations runtime component is a media player that supports vector graphics bitmaps and frame based animation as well as text input and dynamic text. Runtime component may be able to process files such as SWF files in which content providers use native device fonts or embed arbitrary fonts. Runtime component may also support scripting integration with mobile device capabilities including keypad navigation button presses notification messaging and media playback as well as integration with general mobile device operating system functionality. This enables client to be integrated with other mobile device applications and functionalities. Scripting may be accomplished with ActionScript or any other suitable scripting language supported by runtime component .

Client may be configured to interact with mobile device s underlying features and applications through a set of scriptable commands. Such commands may enable channel content to retrieve and set subscriber preferences provide time and date information from the host environment or launch external applications such as a browser or media player. In some implementations upon launching an external application the subscriber is instantly transferred to that application. Client may maintain the state of the user interface on that the subscriber can return to the same screen of client from which the external application was launched creating a perception of an integrated experience.

Client may have a fully customizable user interface design that consists of individual Flash elements i.e. SWF files independent of client s core functionality. In some implementations the SWF files enable subscribers to use mobile device s soft keys to control navigation and client s meta functions such as setting preferences. Client may be updated over wireless network and may use an asynchronous communication protocol that updates all content through a background delivery mechanism that is transparent to subscribers. This enables subscribers to continue browsing one information channel for example channel B while a different information channel is updated in the background. Subscribers can also change their preferences when offline the transaction based client server protocol may ensure that such requests will be fulfilled the next time client connects to server system . Communications between client and server system may be facilitated through libraries native to platform . Platform represents the device dependent operating system running on mobile device . Example implementations of platform are BREW OS Symbian OS BlackBerry OS Windows Mobile OS Palm OS Linux Windows XP Mac OS and the like.

When running in background mode client may minimize battery usage while periodically receiving updates from server system . In some implementations subscribers can choose between a number of battery conserving update options for example always update update only when battery strength is above a certain level and never update. If supported by platform different applications may be running simultaneously. In such cases client may minimize its use of memory resources when other applications are active. For example client may have a hibernate mode in which it consumes only a fraction of its normal operating memory. Client may also be configured to limit the number of information channels to which a subscriber may subscribe. When this limit is reached client may require a subscriber to remove an information channel before anew information channel may be added. Client may also support Short Message Service SMS signaling allowing server system to awaken client and initiate an immediate content update in the case of important events such as breaking news or an immediate retraction of inappropriate content.

Server system may include clusters of feed servers and data source servers as well as report server . Report server may allow service providers to monitor server activities and network traffic and may be integrated with other enterprise reporting solutions. The client server architecture of system may use clustering technology to help ensure performance reliability and scalability while minimizing deployment complexities through a flexible integration framework. Server system may aggregate content from external content providers received over the Internet and organize the content into channel content feeds. Server system may filter content feeds based on user preferences mobile device types and access controls. Server system may deliver the content feeds to client over wireless network . Data source servers may retrieve normalize and aggregate content from the web servers of content providers may transform various formats of retrieved content for example into a common XML format and may pass the content on to teed servers for delivery to client . Retrievals may be scheduled at predetermined intervals at which times only differential updates may be collected. Data source servers may be configured to handle content feeds in various formats e.g. RSS Atom XML etc. . Content feeds may support embedded content types including for example text images and SWF files.

Using system service providers may be able to provide targeted data service offerings to subscribers. Service providers may be able to promote specific content bundles to certain segments such as business people teens casual users and others. Service providers may be able to make specific content bundles available to all subscribers in for example a channel guide allowing subscribers to select specific content bundles. To increase network efficiency server system may operate in an occasionally connected data model and may use a communication protocol that enables differential updates minimizing unnecessary exchanges of data between server system and client . For example in the case of a weather channel only an update to the temperature may be required while all other content such as images video or forecasts remains the same.

Server system may be equipped with an administrator process providing the functionality required to manage the servers including channel administration subscriber administration and system management. Using administrator process service providers can check for example the amount of network traffic each channel generates deactivate poorly performing channels and dynamically provision modify or remove channels among other tasks. As part of channel administration service providers may use administrator process to configure and store permissions and associate permissions with individual channel feeds. At least because the content in an individual channel feed may originate from more than one network domain or even more than one content provider security based strictly on domain of origin alone may be insufficient. Permissions allow the service provider to define with particularity the types of protected activities available to a channel. A set of permissions may be maintained on server system for each channel supported by the mobile information system and may be delivered via the channel content feed to client from server system . In some implementations the permissions associated with a channel are delivered to client with the initial delivery of content for the particular channel and thereafter delivered only if the channel s associated permissions have changed. In other implementations the permissions or a subset of the permissions associated with a channel are delivered to client with each delivery of content for the particular channel. In still other implementations a different scheme for delivering permissions may be employed so long as permissions received by client are associated with at least one channel.

When client receives a content update from server system via the channel feed client stores both the channel content and the permissions associated with the content in feed store . For example when client receives a content update for Channel B client updates Channel B feed in feed store . Both Channel B content and the associated Channel B permissions are stored. Channel B feed may be updated multiple times before a subscriber ever accesses it. When a subscriber accesses Channel B through the mobile device user interface client may retrieve Channel B content e.g. a SWF file and Channel B permissions e.g. a set of permission indicators and provide at least the content to runtime component e.g. a media player . Typically the client may retain the permissions . This allows the client to enforce a degree of security by determining whether actions requested by the content are allowed. In some implementations runtime component may receive Channel B permissions . Runtime component may make no attempt to interpret or otherwise process Channel B permissions but simply retains them as associated with Channel B content . As runtime component executes Channel B content any attempt by Channel B content or runtime component to perform a protected or restricted activity may pass through client and cause client to retrieve or access the relevant permissions e.g. from the client s own internal memory or cache along with the relevant data associated with the protected or restricted activity. Client may then inspect Channel B permissions to determine whether the attempted activity is allowed for Channel B. If the attempted activity is not allowed client may prevent the execution of the attempted activity.

As runtime component executes Channel B content any attempt by Channel B content to access custom extension may cause custom extension to retrieve one or more Channel B permissions from client . In this case neither runtime component nor client may attempt to interpret or otherwise process Channel B permissions . Custom extension may inspect Channel B permissions to determine whether any permissions dedicated to custom extension have been defined and if so custom extension is responsible for interpreting such dedicated permissions and for taking appropriate action.

In some implementations client can operate in more than one mode for example a server managed mode and a non server managed mode. In a non server managed mode client may receive content that is not managed by server system for example from external server over Internet . Unmanaged content may not be stored in teed store . Permissions associated with unmanaged content may still be provided to client however the permissions may be read from a configuration file delivered to client in a loader application rather than read from feed store . The loader application may deliver both the content and the permissions associated with the content. In server managed mode permissions are provided by server system as described above and client will ignore any permissions provided by a loader application.

In server managed mode the channel activation process on mobile device begins with client loading a file from feed store into runtime component . This file may be referred to as a root SWF. A root SWF is typically allowed to access content from its own channel feed without permission. However if a root SWF attempts to access content from a different feed a cross feed access permission may be required. A cross feed access permission is one example of a permission that may be associated with a particular channel. A SWF with permission to load items from another fed may not necessarily have permission to script SATs from that feed A SWF attempting to access variables or functions inside of a second SWF is said to be scripting the second SWF. In some implementations a separate permission governs whether a SWF from a channel feed may be scripted and a SWF with permission to load items from a particular feed may script SWFs from that feed only if SWFs from that feed have permission to be scripted. Separate permissions may govern whether a SWF is allowed to perform other activities for example to load video files.

A root SWF may attempt to load a child SWF. If the child SWF is loaded from the same feed as the root SWF the child SWF will typically inherit the permissions of the root SWF. If the child SWF is loaded from any other location additional permissions associated with the root SWF may determine what its remote child SWF is allowed to do. For example a permission may determine whether a remote child SWF is allowed to access feed store and another permission may determine whether a remote child SWF is allowed to inherit permissions from its parent SWF.

A root or child SWF may attempt to perform various activities using the ActionScript getURL global function. Such activities may include replacing the root SWF loading a document into a browser or sending an SMS or Multimedia Message Service MMS message to name a few. In some implementations these and other getURL requests are each associated with a separate permission. For example a root SWF may not require a permission to replace itself but a child SWF may require a permission to replace the root SWF. An HTTP HTTPS call may require a permission and an HTTP HTTPS call with a post data request may require an additional separate permission.

The above examples represent only a few of the many circumstances where content associated permissions may provide dynamic flexible and fully customizable system security. A data structure useful in flexibly associating permissions with content is illustrated in . Example data structure comprises three 32 bit substructures with each bit in each substructure corresponding to a protected activity governed by a permission. Logic interpreting the permission bits may be designed to allow the protected activity when the bit is set and to deny the protected activity when the bit is not set. Alternatively logic interpreting the permission bits may be designed to deny the protected activity when the bit is set and to allow the protected activity when the bit is not set. A separate set of permissions corresponding to data structure may be established for each channel supported by the system. In some implementations arrays of 32 bit values may be used to provide the flexibility to support greater numbers of permissions and or more permission data. Permissions may be passed from a loader application at the server to the client as comma delimited lists of strings which facilitates adding new permissions and or original equipment manufacturer OEM or other third party permissions at a later time without having to make changes to the application programming interface API .

A wireless service provider administering the mobile information system may use the administrator process on the server system to create a set of permissions according to data structure for each channel supported by the mobile information system. The service provider administrator may determine for every permission represented by a permission bit in data structure whether the corresponding protected activity is allowed or denied for the corresponding channel. These permission bits may be persistently stored on the server system periodically updated by the service provider administrator and provided to the client in the channel feed of each channel. When received at the client the permissions bits are persistently stored in the feed store along with the channel content and retrieved by the client in conjunction with displaying or otherwise executing the channel content on the mobile device. In some implementations different permissions may be associated with different types or sources of content within a single channel. Moreover permissions may be associated with certain types or sources of content without regard to a particular channel.

In example data structure the permission bits in substructure represent the standard permissions that govern protected activities that are not associated with an extension to the runtime component. Such standard protected activities may include for example accessing local data accessing other feeds cross feed scripting accessing the feed store by a child SWF performing a getURL command replacing the root SWF inheriting permissions and loading video. The standard permissions are typically predefined in the architecture of the mobile information system and may be configured with default settings denying access to protected activities. The wireless service provider administrator may then selectively modify the standard permissions for particular channels while leaving other channels with the default permission settings. In example data structure all bits in substructure have been defined however in some implementations some bits will be reserved for future expansion.

The permission bits in substructure represent custom extension permissions that govern protected activities associated with an extension to the runtime component. Such extensions may be provided by the wireless service provider or by a third party e.g. a party authorized by the wireless service provider to define at least some permissions . These permission bits are originally reserved in the architecture of the mobile information system and are meaningless until defined by the service provider administrator. For example Extension A may provide functionality that includes one activity that should be protected Extension B may provide functionality that includes four activities that should be protected and Extension C may provide functionality that includes two activities that should be protected. The developer of Extension A must coordinate with the service provider administrator to reserve one bit in substructure for use by Extension A the developer of Extension B must coordinate with the service provider administrator to reserve four bits in substructure for use by Extension B and the developer of Extension C must coordinate with the service provider administrator to reserve two bits in substructure for use by Extension C. The administrator process of the server system may provide the service provider administrator with the necessary tools for defining the names and locations of the custom extension bits for setting default values for the custom extension bits and for modifying the custom extension bits. When these permission bits are retrieved by the client from the feed store in conjunction with displaying channel content on the mobile device the bits are simply provided to the custom extensions for interpretation and appropriate action.

The permission bits in substructure represent standard extension permissions that govern protected activities associated with an extension to the runtime component. Such extensions are typically provided by the wireless service provider. Standard extension permissions are similar to custom extension permissions however standard extension permissions govern protected activities commonly implemented by service providers in mobile information systems such as activities associated with contact information or a call log. Standard extension permissions are predefined for the convenience of the service provider. The service provider may choose whether or not to use the predefined standard extension permissions when developing extensions.

Data structure and its accompanying description illustrate one example for organizing content associated permissions in a mobile information system. It will be understood that this data structure is for illustration purposes only and that other data structures may be used so long as the data structure remains appropriate for communicating permissions from the server system to the mobile device client.

If the service provider administrator determines at step that a new channel feed is being established the service provider administrator may set the standard permissions at step the standard extension permissions at step and any defined custom extension permissions at step for the new channel feed. The service provider administrator sets the standard permissions at step by determining for each permission in the set of standard permissions whether the content in the new channel feed is allowed to perform the activity governed by the permission. For example if the new channel feed will supply content that is strictly under the control of the service provider local data access may be allowed. But if the new channel feed will supply content from a third party local data access may be denied. Similarly the service provider administrator sets the standard extension permissions at step by determining for each permission in the set of standard extension permissions whether the content in the new channel feed is allowed to perform the activity governed by the permission. If custom extension permissions have been defined for the mobile information system the service provider administrator sets the custom extension permissions at step by determining for each permission in the set of custom extension permissions whether the content in the new channel feed is allowed to perform the activity governed by the permission.

Some or all of the individual permissions may be preconfigured with a default value. For standard permissions and standard extension permissions these default values may be hard coded in the administrator process or in another application associated with the server system. Default values associated with standard permissions and standard extension permissions may also be modified by the service provider administrator. For custom extension permissions the service provider administrator may assign default values when defining the custom extension permissions. When permissions are preconfigured with a default value the service provider administrator may accept the default values for some permissions while affirmatively setting the value of other permissions in steps and .

At step the service provider administrator may determine whether a new custom extension permission is needed. if the new channel feed is configured to provide content that will execute in a custom extension the developer of the custom extension may require one or more new permissions for interpretation by the custom extension. The service provider administrator defines the new custom extension permissions at step and sets the new custom extension permissions at step . In defining a new custom extension permission the administrator may select a previously undefined permission reserved in the custom extension permissions data structure and assign it to the custom extension.

If the service provider administrator determines at step that a new channel feed is not being established the service provider administrator may determine at step whether an update to the permissions of an existing channel feed is needed. An update may be needed for example if new content will be provided in an existing channel feed requiring access to restricted data or activities or if new content will be provided in an existing channel feed for execution in a custom extension. If a permissions update is needed the service provider administrator may determine at step whether the needed update is for existing permissions. Existing permissions include standard permissions and standard extension permissions as well as custom extension permissions previously assigned to a particular custom extension. If an update to existing permissions is needed the service provider administrator may perform the necessary updates at step and then may return to step to determine whether a new custom extension permission is needed to complete the permissions update. A new custom extension permission may be needed for example if new content will be provided in an existing channel feed for execution in a custom extension. The path for a new channel feed and the path for an update to an existing channel feed converge at step where the new or updated permissions are persistently stored on the server system where they may be retrieved for future delivery in a content feed.

After the channel feed is prepared the server system may determine at step whether a channel subscriber s mobile device is accepting channel updates. A mobile device may not be accepting channel updates for example because it is powered off because it is hibernating to conserve battery life because it is configured to accept updates at another time because it is busy performing other tasks or for other reasons. If the device is accepting channel updates then the server system may deliver the channel content and or permissions to the device at step and return to step to wait for additional updates. If the device is not accepting channel updates then the server system may determine at step whether the channel has been updated again. If not then the server system may return at step to enter a loop waiting to either deliver the channel feed to the device or to determine that the channel has been updated again. If the channel content is updated again before the previous update is delivered to the mobile device a new feed may be prepared containing the additional updates. Method may be performed for each channel supported by the mobile information system.

After the incoming channel feed is stored or if the server has no channel feed ready to deliver the client may determine at step whether a subscriber is attempting to access a channel on the mobile device. For example the subscriber may have navigated to a particular channel through the device s user interface and pressed a button touched a screen or otherwise indicated that the channel should be displayed or otherwise invoked. If a subscriber is not attempting to access a channel on the mobile device the client may return at step to wait for either an incoming channel feed or a channel access.

If a subscriber is attempting to access a channel on the mobile device then the client may access the feed store at step retrieve the channel content and associated permissions and provide the channel content to a runtime component such as a media player on the mobile device. The channel content may comprise a sequence of executable instructions or commands. The runtime component may then identify an instruction or command at step and determine at step whether the instruction or command is implemented in an extension expanding the functionality of the runtime component. If so the runtime component may provide the instruction or command to the custom extension e.g. via the client and the client may provide the extension permissions which may include standard extension permissions and custom extension permissions to the custom extension and the custom extension at step may review the extension permissions. If the instruction or command is not implemented in a custom extension the runtime component may provide the instruction or command to the client and the client at step may review the standard permissions. If the permissions review indicates that an activity associated with the instruction or command is prohibited at step then that activity is blocked at step . If the permissions inspection indicates that an activity associated with the instruction or command is not prohibited at step then that activity is performed at step . The runtime component may then determine at step whether additional commands or instructions are provided in the channel content and if so may return at step to identify another instruction. If no further commands or instructions are provided in the channel content the client may return at step to wait for either an incoming channel feed or a channel access.

The preceding flowcharts and accompanying descriptions illustrate example methods. It will be understood that these methods are for illustration purposes only and that the described or similar techniques may be performed at any appropriate time including concurrently individually or in combination. In addition many of the steps in these flowcharts may take place simultaneously and or in different orders than as shown. Moreover methods may be used with additional steps fewer steps and or different steps so long as the methods remain appropriate.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more of them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described is this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments of the invention have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. The described techniques may be implemented in non mobile environments e.g. using wire line communications such as a cable connection with a non mobile client such as a set top box .

