---

title: Contextual data communication platform
abstract: Systems and methods for a contextual data platform are provided. According to one embodiment, a HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP) request is generated by a user agent running on an Internet-enabled device. The HTTP request includes multiple HTTP header fields complying with Request for Comments (RFC) 2616. Each of the HTTP header fields includes a name-value pair having a name separated from a value by a colon. The value of the name-value pair of an HTTP header field is set based on a privacy setting or a data sharing setting that was established based on input received from an end user of the Internet-enabled device. A web server is directed by the user agent to return content tailored in accordance with the privacy setting or the data sharing setting by transmitting the HTTP request to the web server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08725851&OS=08725851&RS=08725851
owner: RPX Corporation
number: 08725851
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130807
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 422 609 filed Apr. 9 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 960 027 filed Dec. 3 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 156 206 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 016 996 filed Jan. 19 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 873 710 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 888 318 filed on Feb. 6 2007 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

Contained herein is material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent disclosure by any person as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all rights to the copyright whatsoever. Copyright 2006 2013 5o9 Inc.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to Internet communications and mechanisms that enable contextual data to be exchanged between web clients and web servers. More specifically embodiments of the present invention provide infrastructure and both client and server side functionality to enable location data device capabilities operating system capabilities and user data to be selectively securely efficiently and cost effectively delivered over any web connection between a web enabled device and a web server and or web services thereby enabling various business usage models such as local search local advertising location based services privacy on line identity solutions mobile asset management mobile data policy management mobile coupons proximity marketing personalized content permission marketing and closed loop virtual physical marketing among others.

Enterprise customers need a simple and cost effective solution that enables their customers or employees to transmit real time location device and user data over the Internet to support personalized content and services. Users want a better experience and control over their privacy. Businesses need a cost effective efficient way of supporting mobile employees delivering location based services and properly formatted relevant content to their customers. They need to do all of this regardless of the device or network connection. Current solutions and services require high CAPEX OPEX commitments and don t offer persistence across different networks.

On the other side of the value chain consumers using mobile devices are subjected to a poor user experience in terms of data entry latency and content formatting creating unnecessary transactional friction. Additionally the advent of mobile marketing exposes consumers to unwanted interruptions. They are demanding technologies that are convenient yet still give them privacy and control over their privacy. The issues of convenience privacy and control must be addressed before businesses and consumers can fully realize the economic and social benefits of the mobile Web.

Systems and methods are described for a contextual data platform. According to one embodiment a HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP request is generated by a user agent running on an Internet enabled device. The HTTP request includes multiple HTTP header fields complying with Request for Comments RFC 2616. Each of the HTTP header fields includes a name value pair having a name separated from a value by a colon. The value of the name value pair of an HTTP header field is set based on a privacy setting or a data sharing setting that was established based on input received from an end user of the Internet enabled device. A web server is directed by the user agent to return content tailored in accordance with the privacy setting or the data sharing setting by transmitting the HTTP request to the web server.

Other features of embodiments of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Systems and methods are described for enabling selective exchange and usage of contextual information among web enabled clients and servers. According to one embodiment contextual information e.g. dynamic state information is aggregated stored and protected on a client device. The contextual information may then be transmitted to a web server for the purpose of allowing the web server to generate and provide dynamic contextual menu information to the client device to enable the client device to present contextual menus to facilitate end user interaction with a particular application or web service.

In one embodiment of the present invention web connected devices securely interact with web servers based on information regarding who e.g. the user what e.g. the device where e.g. the global positioning system GPS location Wi Fi cell tower and when e.g. time over any carrier or network while also protecting the privacy of the users. According to various embodiments of the contextual data communication platform described herein software components distributed between a web enabled client and a web server use existing Internet standards to cost effectively deliver business critical location device and user data from web enabled client devices such as Smartphones Pocket Personal Computers PCs Ultra Mobile PCs UMPCs BlackBerry wireless handheld devices iPhones desktop laptop computers set top boxes and the like to a web server over any web connection. Relevant portions of this who what where and when data can then be distributed in real time to any application or service to enhance the user experience. 5o9 is a registered trademark of 5o9 Inc. of Boulder Colo. .

As a result of the device user and location awareness provided to content and service providers by embodiments of the present invention numerous data usage models such as local search local advertising location based services mobile asset and policy management mobile content personalized content and the like become feasible. For example a novel permission based proximity marketing approach Pushing with Permission provides users with control over their data privacy reduces data entry and increases relevant interactions. As one potential permission based marketing scenario Taco Bell may perform a drive time promotion in which customers who give Taco Bell permission to contact them on their Pocket PC will receive a notice when they are within five miles of a Taco Bell offering them a free taco when they buy two if they come by the drive thru window within a designated time frame. As described further below in the context of various exemplary use cases a user may provide a service provider e.g. Taco Bell with permission to solicit them by making available selective who what and or where data to the service provider. For purposes of illustrating the versatility of various embodiments of the contextual data communication platform additional use cases and examples are described below.

In one embodiment by way of newly available email security data access policy management organizations with sensitive information or that must meet regulatory compliance standards for data release and distribution can now address the unique challenges of mobile users. The user their location the device they are on and in some cases the network or software they are using to connect to the Internet may be used to determine what networks or data may be accessed or sent via email.

In accordance with various embodiments mobile asset tracking can be provided to allow organizations with the ability to instantly know where field or traveling employees are or to locate missing or stolen GPS enabled mobile devices. For example server initiated calls can instantly provide an asset management HR system or database with identifying device user and location data. Additionally client software can be locked down to ensure unauthorized users cannot turn GPS data off According to one embodiment of the present invention home away profiles are enhanced. For example the client may be customized to allow employees with non GPS enabled mobile devices to change their settings for frequently visited locations. Single click controls may also simplify the process thereby increasing field policy compliance and productivity.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details.

Embodiments of the present invention may be provided as a computer program product which may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer or other electronic devices to perform a process. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks compact disc read only memories CD ROMs and magneto optical disks ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory MultiMedia Cards MMCs secure digital SD cards such as miniSD and microSD cards or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Moreover embodiments of the present invention may also be downloaded as a computer program product wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer to a requesting computer by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. a modem or network connection .

While for convenience various embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to hand held mobile devices or phones the present invention is also applicable to various other Web enabled devices mobile or fixed such as laptop and or desktop computers and the like. Embodiments of the present invention described herein may be installed on any device that transmits data via HTTP such as Desktop Computers Laptops Mobile Phones Smartphones Pocket PCs PDAs Video Phones Ultra Mobile PCs UMPCs hand held computers Appliances such as refrigerators washers consumer electronics devices such as game consoles TVs set top boxes home media centers DVRs stereos digital audio and video players recorders military hardware walkie talkies satellite phones tanks remote vehicles scanners vehicles automobiles aircraft space craft trains buses and other devices e.g. seismic or other environmental sensors and robots and the like. Additionally a pure software embodiment is envisioned for client devices in which all or a subset of the features described below may be implemented.

For the sake of illustration various data and business use cases are described herein to illustrate exemplary applications of the novel contextual data communication platform. Importantly such example data and use cases are not intended to be limiting as the software infrastructure and flexible data communications and transport mechanisms described herein enable and facilitate an indescribably vast assortment of new and improved web services and applications.

Furthermore while embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to the ability to support the current Internet infrastructure without change to the specifications such as RFC 2616 via the use of new User Agent fields and or other add ons to the regular fields in the headers of the HTTP protocol it is contemplated that various aspects of this mechanism of communicating Me data can be replaced and or supplemented by information injected into the HTTP data stream wireless telecom carrier signaling or Internet Service Provider ISP signaling modified Internet infrastructure specifications or future web protocols. All such methods of transmitting Me data between web connected clients and servers are intended to be encompassed by the present application.

Finally while embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to particular data being embedded in HTTP protocol headers in one embodiment open application programming interfaces APIs are provided to allow developers to extend the HTTP protocol in other novel ways to transport other types of data using customizable HTTP X headers.

Brief definitions of terms abbreviations and phrases used throughout this application are given below.

The phrase augmented HyperText Transport Protocol request or augmented HTTP request generally refer to an HTTP request supplemented to include information relating to one or more of location information device data terminal capabilities operating system capabilities user data and time information. In one embodiment augmented HTTP requests carry Me data. According to one embodiment an augmented HTTP request includes one or more customized HTTP X headers containing i information regarding who the user is e.g. personally identifying data such as but not limited to names addresses phone numbers email addresses social security number SSN national ID number employee number and credit card account information personal interest data such as but not limited to food music leisure technology entertainment preferences personal advertising preferences social networking preferences and demographic data such as but not limited to age gender income spending employment profession household income education level number of children number of people in the household marital status sexual orientation political affiliation ethnicity group memberships etc. ii what the client device and or terminal capabilities are e.g. screen resolution color capabilities accepted compression audio and video formats etc. iii information indicating where the client device is such as but not limited to real time GPS location of the client device from which the request originated other static or dynamic state information associated with the client device such as but not limited to screen orientation a device ID e.g. the unique PIN number of a BlackBerry device whether the client is a real device or simulator whether the device is holstered or not at the time of the request and state information associated with external or internal sensors or monitors including but not limited to gyro status humidity temperature etc.

The phrase augmented HyperText Markup Language file or augmented HTML file generally refer to an HTML file supplemented to include information regarding a menu structure to be presented on the client device to which the augmented HTML file is directed. According to one embodiment the information regarding the menu structure received in the augmented HTML file is used to dynamically reconfigure the menu information structure presented by the operating system and or an application running on the client device. Advantageously in this manner many dynamic contextual menu usage models are enabled. In one embodiment dynamic browser menus of a mobile device are driven from a web server.

The term client generally refers to a requesting program process or device in a client server relationship. For example a Web browser is effectively making client requests for pages from servers all over the Web. The browser itself is a client in its relationship with the computer that is getting and returning the requested markup language file e.g. HTML XML XHTML file . The computer handling the request and sending back the markup language file is functioning as server with respect to the Web browser. Notably a device typically thought of as a client device may also function as a server and may concurrently operate as both a client and a server with respect to other devices to which it is communicatively coupled.

The terms connected or coupled and related terms are used in an operational sense and are not necessarily limited to a direct physical connection or coupling. Thus for example two devices may be coupled directly or via one or more intermediary media or devices. As another example devices may be coupled in such a way that information can be passed there between while not sharing any physical connection with one another. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a variety of ways in which connection or coupling exists in accordance with the aforementioned definition.

The phrase HyperText Transport Protocol Mobile or acronym HTTPM generally refer to a mobile sockets layer added to the HTTP protocol similar in concept to HTTPS that allows Web servers to recognize Web enabled devices.

The phrases in one embodiment according to one embodiment and the like generally mean the particular feature structure or characteristic following the phrase is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention and may be included in more than one embodiment of the present invention. Importantly such phases do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

If the specification states a component or feature may can could or might be included or have a characteristic that particular component or feature is not required to be included or have the characteristic.

The phrases Multiple Target HyperLink Multiple Target Hyper Linking or acronym MTHL generally refer to a method for allowing a one to many versus the current one to one relationship among a hyperlink and the actual Uniform Resource Locators URLs to which it connects.

The phrases Me data Me information contextual data contextual information dynamic state information and the like generally refer to information regarding who the user is e.g. name address phone number gender personal advertising preferences social advertising preferences the skill level of the user with respect to one or more web services or applications e.g. novice expert etc. what the client device operating system and or terminal capabilities are e.g. screen resolution color capabilities accepted compression etc. where the client device is e.g. GPS Zip postal code Bluetooth Wi Fi area code country near field communications radio frequency ID RFID cell tower triangulation device virtual location hyperlinks any other method of determining location and or when e.g. time .

The phrase protected fields generally refers to the ability to selectively enable or disable the transmission of information such as Me data via a web connection. In one embodiment protected fields provide the underpinnings of a privacy based user interface which supports the concept of Pushing with Permission. In one embodiment protected fields technology is executed via a user controlled identification e.g. the ability to check uncheck data fields versus tracking approach to sharing content services and advertising personalization who what were data.

The term server generally refers to a responding program process or device in a client server relationship. For example a web server responds to client e.g. web browser requests for pages from web connected clients. The web server itself is a server in its relationship with the computer or program that is making requests for markup language files e.g. HTML XML XHTML files and does not assume any particular hardware or device form factor. The computer or program making the requests is functioning as a client with respect to the web server. Notably a device typically thought of as a server device may also function as a client and may concurrently operate as both a client and a server with respect to other devices to which it is communicatively coupled. Consequently depending on the context when the phrase client server is used herein it may also encompass peer to peer functionality as well.

At its core the Internet is designed to function in a client server mode. The governing body the World Wide Web Consortium W3C designed a set of specifications that allow data to traverse the Internet interacting between the web server and the browser. This document known as RFC 2616 discusses the communication protocol in use today i.e. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP .

HTTP is a method used to transfer or convey information on the World Wide Web. Its original purpose was to provide a way to publish and retrieve Hyper Text Markup Language HTML pages. Development of HTTP was coordinated by the W3C and the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF culminating in the publication of a series of RFCs most notably RFC 2616 1999 which defines HTTP 1.1 the version of HTTP in common use today and which is hereby incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

HTTP is a request response protocol between clients and servers. The originating client such as a web browser spider or other end user tool is referred to as the user agent. The destination server which stores or creates resources such as HTML files and images is called the origin server. In between the user agent and origin server may be one or more intermediaries such as routers network appliances proxies gateways firewalls and the like.

In this example an HTTP client running on one of client devices initiates an HTTP request by establishing a Transmission Control Protocol TCP connection to a particular port on a web server port by default . An HTTP server listening on that port waits for the HTTP client to send the HTTP request . Upon receiving the HTTP request the web server sends back an HTTP response including a status line such as HTTP 1.1 200 OK and a message of its own the body of which is perhaps the requested file an error message or some other information.

HTTP can occasionally pose problems for web developers Web Applications because HTTP is stateless. A stateless server is a server that treats each request as an independent transaction that is unrelated to any previous request. The advantage of a stateless protocol is that hosts don t need to retain information about users between requests but this forces the use of alternative methods for maintaining users state for example when a host would like to customize content for a user who has visited before.

The common method used by current technology for solving this problem of statelessness involves the use of sending and requesting cookies such as cookie in an attempt to add state. However cookies have many disadvantages. Cookies are an incomplete solution as they are not compatible with all devices they are not adaptable to varying usage models and the information conveyed is not protectable. In addition cookies create privacy concerns have technical drawbacks including among other things misidentification of users and the capability of being misused in the context of security attacks.

HTTP cookies sometimes known as web cookies or just cookies are parcels of text sent by a server to a web browser and then sent back unchanged by the browser each time it accesses that server. HTTP cookies are used for authenticating tracking and maintaining specific information about users such as site preferences and the contents of their electronic shopping carts.

Cookies have been of concern for Internet privacy since they can be used for tracking browsing behavior. As a result they have been subject to legislation in various countries such as the United States and in the European Union. Cookies have also been criticized because the identification of users they provide is not always accurate and because they could potentially be used for network attacks. Some alternatives to cookies exist but each has its own drawbacks.

Cookies are also subject to a number of misconceptions mostly based on the erroneous notion that they are computer programs. In fact cookies are simple pieces of data unable to perform any operation by themselves. In particular they are neither spyware nor viruses despite the detection of cookies from certain sites by many anti spyware products.

Cookies are used by web servers to differentiate users and to operate in a way that depends on the user. Cookies were invented for realizing a virtual shopping basket this is a virtual device in which the user can place items to purchase so that users can navigate a site where items are shown adding or removing items from the shopping basket at any time. Cookies allow for the content of the shopping cart to depend on the user s actions.

Allowing users to log in to a web site with a username and password is another use of cookies. Users typically log in by inserting their credentials into a login page cookies allow the server to know that the user is already authenticated and therefore is allowed to access services or perform operations that are restricted to logged in users.

Several websites also use cookies for personalization based on users preferences. Sites that require authentication often use this feature although it is also present on sites not requiring authentication. Personalization includes presentation and functionality. For example the Wikipedia web site allows authenticated users to choose the webpage skin they like best the Google search engine allows users even non registered ones to decide how many search results per page they want to see.

Cookies are also used to track users across a website. Third party cookies and web bugs also allow for tracking across multiple sites. Tracking within a site is typically done with the aim of producing usage statistics while tracking across sites is typically used by advertising companies to produce anonymous user profiles which are then used to target advertising deciding which advertising image to show based on the user profile.

Having now briefly explained the state of the art in connection with attempting to use state information on the web as well as numerous disadvantages and limitations associated with current conventions for web connections the improvements provided by embodiments of the present invention will now be better understood.

Embodiments of the present invention seek to address or at least alleviate various problems with current conventions for web connections by providing one of more of the following features 

In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention the features listed above are provided by way of one or more of the following technological enhancements which are described in further detail below 

Before discussing various implementation details of various embodiments of the present invention it is thought to be useful to provide background information regarding various forms of contextual data that may be transmitted from a client device to a web server.

A first form of contextual data that may be transmitted to a web server is personal information such as user identification information who information. User identification is critical to efficient mobile Internet communications. Filling out a Web form on a Smartphone or Pocket PC is slow and frustrating and restricts mobile commerce. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a solution is one or more databases of Me information. For example one or more encrypted data files which provide information regarding device capabilities operating system capabilities and other personal data that the user is willing to share may be stored on the device. Such Me information may then allow a device to authenticate the user with Web servers without sending personal information over the Web. The Me information may be used to fill out forms and remember what kind of information or advertising the user is willing to accept. This level of personalization enables widespread use of online CRM e commerce and permission based marketing. By delivering information in a personalized appropriately formatted manner content providers can deliver greater relevance and value to customers leading to enhanced service levels increased loyalty and improved revenues.

A second form of contextual data that may be transmitted to a web server includes information regarding device operating system and terminal capabilities what information. The assumption has always been that a desktop PC is the device connected to the Internet or server. This is no longer the case. As a result in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention mechanisms are provided to allow web connected devices to transmit their capabilities such as screen size color display operating system capabilities and content acceleration capabilities. While a handful of very large web sites can determine if it s a mobile device making a request the vast majority cannot. And knowing what only addresses content format not acceleration or encryption capabilities remaining battery life or device health. By marrying who and what together the user can authenticate to the device first rather than the remote server turning authentication into a single step no entry process which saves time reduces keystrokes and eliminates the need to send passwords logins and other sensitive data over the web. With some mobile devices already including fingerprint readers or other biometric devices the synergies of who and what together creates a more trusted mobile Internet.

A third form of contextual data that may be transmitted to a web server includes information regarding the client device s current location where information. Mobile computing has changed the Internet landscape. Not only are the device capabilities different buy they are now free to roam. There are many emerging markets where people do not have a PC and will never own one. This directly impacts one of the most popular applications on the Internet namely Search. Search on a desktop is about browsing. Search on a mobile device is about finding. Knowing the location of a mobile device is a critical determiner of the quality of the results. For instance a mobile search for Pizza Huts should be able to accurately locate all the Pizza Hut stores within walking or delivery distance of the user s current location. The ability to correlate this data with both What Am I what type of device the request originated from and Who Am I relevant information regarding the end user of the device allows for the desired customer experience. No more frustration.

With this background in mind a high level view of a contextual data communication platform will now be described with reference to . conceptually illustrates a new communication convention among client devices and a web server in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Notably the new communication convention provides for the ability on the part of client devices to transmit dynamic state information to a web server . Information servers such as application servers and or database server may then customize the output intended to be returned to client devices based on the contextual data provided by the client devices . The new communication convention also independently provides the information servers with the ability to return contextual information to the client devices . In some embodiments the contextual information provided by an information server to a client device is for the purpose of facilitating the client device s interactions with the information server. For example in one embodiment the web server may return on behalf of the information servers tagged data indicative of desired menu entries to be displayed on a client device. Such menu entries may enable more efficient navigation or interaction with the information server. Thus in accordance with embodiments of the present invention client devices may provide contextual data to information servers and or web servers and webs servers and or information servers may separately independently and or responsive thereto provide contextual information to client devices.

In the present example client devices interact with the web server via a communications medium that supports HTTP over TCP IP. Client devices access applications and web services provided by application servers and database server via the web server . While in the present example for sake of illustration only three types of client devices i.e. a video device a laptop and a mobile device are shown it is to be understood that client devices may include any web enabled client device.

Responsive to navigation requests by end users or applications in addition to conveying information identifying a web resource and a desired action to be performed on the identified web resource the client devices also transmit static or dynamic state information to web server embedded within augmented HTTP requests such as augmented HTTP request . Briefly this state information may represent any information observable or otherwise available to the client device such as the current temperature the location of the client device and the end user s blood pressure or heart rate. As described in further detail below server side functionality within the web server extracts the state information and conveys it directly or indirectly to the information server e.g. application servers or database server responsible for handling requests relating to the web resource identified in the augmented HTTP request as contextual data .

Based on one or both of the contextual data and the application or web service being accessed by the augmented HTTP request the responding information server e.g. application servers or database server may customize the content to be returned to the requestor by providing customized content to the web server . Typically the task of such an information server is to respond to requests in the case of web servers requests from client web browsers by returning output. Each time a request is received the server analyses what the request asks for and returns the appropriate output. The two simplest ways for the server of doing this are i if the request identifies a file stored on disk return the contents of that file and ii if the request identifies an executable command and possibly arguments run the command based on the provided arguments and return the corresponding output. Common gateway interface CGI protocol defines a standard way of doing the latter. CGI defines how information about the server and the request is passed to the command in the form of arguments and environment variables and how the command can pass back extra information about the output such as the type in the form of headers. How web server passes contextual information in the form of exemplary environment variables according to one embodiment of the present invention is described further below.

As described further below the responding server may also provide contextual menu information to the requesting client device. Notably in various embodiments contextual menu information may take into consideration and be at least in part based on or responsive to contextual data . In other embodiment contextual menu information is provided independent of contextual data and or the existence of contextual data . The contextual menu information typically specifies a menu structure to facilitate ongoing interaction with the current application or web service by the requesting client device. In this manner context dependent menu structures may be presented on a mobile device screen to shift navigation off the web page and into a browser menu or operating system menu as the case may be. Advantageously in this manner web pages applications and web services may be provided with the data and screen space they need to deliver relevant content. Meanwhile mobile users are provided with a consistent and familiar menu interface minimizing training and support costs.

As described in further detail below when present server side functionality within the web server extracts the contextual menu information and embeds the contextual menu information within an augmented HTML file . In one embodiment client side functionality within the client devices is configured to strip out the embedded contextual menu information prior to rendering the HTML.

Browser may be a Microsoft Internet Explorer web browser such as Internet Explorer Mobile or IE Mobile formerly referred to as Pocket Internet Explorer or PIE or other mobile browser capable of connecting to the web via a cellular network or via wireless local area network Wi Fi or wide area network Wi Max or other means of connectivity using standard HTTP over TCP IP. Browser may display web pages written in HTML XHTML Mobile Profile WAP 2.0 WML WAP 1.3 and the like.

According to one embodiment browser includes a browser helper object or MIME filter through which client context manager may interface with browser . Browser helper object BHO may be is a Dynamic Link Library DLL module designed as a plug in for Microsoft s Internet Explorer web browser to provide added functionality. In one embodiment BHO intercepts web content and provides it to client context manager for processing before rendering the associated HTML.

According to the present example client context manager includes one or more contextual databases a compression decompression controller a menu overlay controller an encryption decryption controller a context reporting application programming interface API and a context transmission API . In one embodiment client context manager functions as a filter and is implemented in accordance with the Document Object Model DOM programming interface specification.

The contextual database s may locally store encrypted contextual data such as information and or parameters regarding the end user of the client device the client device capabilities terminal capabilities operating system capabilities and other third party or user entered data. In one embodiment contextual database s represent one or more extensible secure databases that run as self contained executable programs on top of the device s target operating system. In the present example the purpose of contextual database s is to collect and store context data from N input sources not shown e.g. bio fingerprint reader GPS Heart Rate Monitor Bluetooth devices. According to one embodiment all of the available context data is stored and updated in real time. Essentially the contextual database s offers a programmer a safe storage location indicating the current state of the target device. As discussed further below in one embodiment each field of data that is stored within the database can be individually protected as well as the database itself.

According to one embodiment the contextual database s are extensible to accommodate third party applications e.g. databases for storing and aggregating additional data via a set of open APIs. For example at run time the contextual database s may scan its current directory looking for third party databases which have appropriate APIs activated. These APIs which are callable by the contextual database s allow programmers to add specific Who What and Where information to the web from within their application. This information may then be aggregated along with other information from the contextual database s and passed to the browser not shown for transport to the web server .

According to one embodiment end user information may include personally identifying data such as but not limited to first and or last name address information e.g. a street address of a residence of the end user a city in which the residence is located a state in which the residence is located a ZIP Code in which the residence is located a country in which the residence is located one or more phone numbers e.g. a home phone number a cell phone number such as a phone number associated with a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card of the client device or a work phone number one or more email addresses social security number SSN national ID number employee number and credit card account information personal interest data such as but not limited to food music leisure technology entertainment preferences personal advertising preferences social advertising preferences demographic data such as but not limited to age gender income spending employment profession household income education level number of children number of people in the household marital status sexual orientation political affiliation ethnicity group memberships etc. a language in which the end user would prefer information to be presented passwords loyalty program account information etc.

In one embodiment device and terminal capabilities include but are not limited to screen resolution color capabilities accepted compression audio and video formats etc.

According to various embodiments of the present invention operating system capabilities include but are not limited to the operating system s ability to provide information regarding the client device battery level battery status battery temperature battery voltage device ID device name idle time operating system version platform version user interface mode e.g. beginner intermediate advanced whether the battery is removable whether the device is holstered whether the device is a simulator the current font being used by the user interface and or the fonts available.

In one embodiment contextual data may be periodically polled pulled from various internal and or external sources such as third party or user entered context source s global positioning system GPS receiver and external content source s and aggregated and stored within contextual database s .

In one embodiment the context reporting API may be called by context sources when new information is available. Alternatively outwardly facing calls may be made by the client context manager . For example the context sources may implement standardized routines that may be called by client context manager whenever client context manager desires to have up to date context data e.g. prior to sending an augmented HTTP request responsive to a navigation request by the end user or other client applications from such context sources.

Similarly other client applications installed on the mobile device may call an appropriate routine within the context transmission API when they have context data they would like to transmit to a web server as part of a navigation request. Or the other client applications may implement standardized routines as described further below that may be subject to outward facing calls by client context manager prior to sending an augmented HTTP request on behalf of such applications.

In one embodiment compression decompression controller contains the current compression and decompression libraries. According to various embodiments the compression and decompression libraries may be augmented by third parties. Depending on whether or not compression decompression is required these library routines are called by the browser helper object for example.

Similarly the encryption decryption controller contains the current encryption and decryption libraries which may also be augmented by third parties. Depending on whether or not encryption decryption is required these library routines are called by the browser helper object for example.

According to various embodiments menu overlay controller is configured with hooks into the operating system and or the browser as appropriate to respond to menu interactions by the end user. In one embodiment and as described further below menu overlay controller extracts contextual menu information such as contextual menu information inserted into an augmented HTML file e.g. augmented HTML file from web content received by the mobile device and uses this extracted contextual menu information to supplement the current menu structure of the browser or the operating system by creating overlay windows. For example menu overlay controller may be called responsive to browser helper object intercepting an augmented HTML file containing contextual menu information. Then menu overlay controller may parse out the contextual menu information and insert appropriate contextual menu entries into the browser menu structure via a windows overlay call. In one embodiment the contextual menu entries are presented by obtaining the menu handle of the current window and updating it with the new data.

Essentially in various embodiments of the present invention the client context manager may intercept calls when the browser menu key is pressed and then menu overlay controller may add other contextual menu entries on top of or adjacent to the current standard menu. In alternative embodiments assuming the availability of an open API within the operating system or the browser relating to menu customization appropriate calls can be made to such API or call back routines registered with such API.

While in the environment of the present example contextual database s compression decompression controller menu overlay controller and encryption decryption controller have been described as residing within or as part of the client context manager in alternative embodiments one or more of these functional units may be implemented within operating system browser or by hardware or firmware not shown associated with the mobile device .

In one embodiment the functionality of one or more of the above referenced functional units may be merged in various combinations. For example compression decompression controller may be incorporated within the encryption decryption controller or vice versa. Moreover the various functional units can be communicatively coupled using any suitable communication method e.g. message passing parameter passing and or signals through one or more communication paths etc. . Additionally the functional units can be physically connected according to any suitable interconnection architecture e.g. fully connected hypercube etc. .

According to embodiments of the invention the functional units can be any suitable type of logic e.g. digital logic software code and the like for executing the operations described herein. Any of the functional units used in conjunction with embodiments of the invention can include machine readable media including instructions for performing operations described herein. Machine readable media include any mechanism that provides i.e. stores and or transmits information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable medium includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. etc.

In general server context manager may listen to all requests to the site or sites on which it is installed. The ability to examine and modify both incoming and outgoing streams of data makes ISAPI filters powerful and flexible. In embodiments in which server context manager is implemented as an ISAPI filter it may be registered at either the site level or the global level global filters apply to all sites on the IIS server and are initialized when the worker process is started.

As depicted and in accordance with the present example server context manager includes an environment variable extraction module an HTML augmentation module a compression decompression controller and an encryption decryption controller .

In one embodiment compression decompression controller contains the current compression and decompression libraries which can be augmented by third parties. Depending on whether or not compression decompression is required these library routines may be called.

Similarly encryption decryption controller contains the current encryption and decryption libraries which can be augmented by third parties. Depending on whether or not encryption decryption is required these library routines may be called.

According to various embodiments of the present invention contextual data provided by a requesting client device is distributed to information servers e.g. application servers and or database servers fronted by web server in the form of environment variables. In one embodiment incoming request data from requesting client devices is in the form of augmented HTTP requests such as augmented HTTP request . According to one embodiment environment variable extraction module is configured to extract one or more of the following environment variables from incoming request data 

In one embodiment of the present invention HTML augmentation module incorporates customized content such as customized content received from information servers e.g. one of application servers and or database server responsive to the client request into one or more augmented HTML files. HTML augmentation module may also format the content returned to the requesting client device in accordance with various device and or terminal characteristics settings and or parameters as indicated within the client request.

Embodiments of the present invention include various steps which will be described in more detail below. A variety of these steps may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware. As such is an example of a computer system such as a client device or web server with which embodiments of the present invention may be utilized.

According to the present example the computer system includes a bus at least one processor at least one communication port a main memory a removable storage media a read only memory and a mass storage .

Processor s can be any known processor such as but not limited to mobile application processors or other processors designed for portable devices such as the ARM Cortex A7 A8 or A9 processor of ARM Holdings one or more of Texas Instruments OMAP family of processors e.g. the OMAP2430 or the OMAPV2230 an Intel 80386 processor and Intel PXA901 processor an Intel Itanium or Itanium 2 processor s or AMD Opteron or Athlon MP processor s or Motorola lines of processors. Notably future mobile devices are likely to have at least two processors one for carrier processing and one for application processing.

Among other things processor s is generally responsible for executing various operational instructions maintained in main memory and processing and otherwise interacting with various other input output I O devices such as internal and or external context data sources. In one embodiment of the present invention processor s may receive interrupts on a periodic basis from context data sources e.g. external context source s GPS receiver and or third party context source s . Such interrupts may be received for example whenever new data is available from the particular source or on a periodic basis e.g. every few seconds or so . Such interrupts may be received using any interrupt scheme known in the art including but not limited to using a polling scheme where processor s periodically reviews an interrupt register or using an asynchronous interrupt port of processor . Alternatively or additionally the processor s may proactively request data from context data sources on a periodic or as needed basis. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a variety of interrupt and or polling mechanisms that may be used in relation to different embodiments of the present invention.

Communication port s represent physical and or logical ports. For example communication port s may be any of an RS 232 port for use with a modem based dialup connection a 10 100 Ethernet port or a Gigabit port using copper or fiber. Communication port s may be chosen depending on a network such a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or any network to which the computer system connects.

Communication port s may also be the name of the end of a logical connection e.g. a Transmission Control Protocol TCP and or User Datagram Protocol UDP port . For example communication ports may be one of the Well Know Ports such as TCP port used for HTTP service assigned by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority IRNA for specific uses.

Main memory can be Random Access Memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device s commonly known in the art. Read only memory can be any static storage device s such as Programmable Read Only Memory PROM chips for storing static information such as instructions for processor .

Mass storage can be used to store information and instructions. For example hard disks such as the Adaptec family of SCSI drives an optical disc an array of disks such as RAID such as the Adaptec family of RAID drives or any other mass storage devices may be used.

Bus communicatively couples processor s with the other memory storage and communication blocks. Bus can be a PCI PCI X or SCSI based system bus depending on the storage devices used.

Optionally in the case of a server and typically in the case of a fixed client device such as a desktop computer operator and administrative interfaces such as a display keyboard and a cursor control device may also be coupled to bus to support direct operator interaction with computer system . Other operator and administrative interfaces can be provided through network connections connected through communication ports .

Removable storage media can be any kind of external hard drives floppy drives IOMEGA Zip Drives Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM MultiMedia Cards MMCs secure digital SD cards such as miniSD and microSD cards Compact Disc Re Writable CD RW Digital Video Disk Read Only Memory DVD ROM .

GPS includes a GPS receiver and provides real time GPS location data. GPS may be an external or integrated with the client device. GPS may include its own processor and or memory or utilize the host processor s .

Depending upon the particular implementation computer system may also include one or more other integrated or externally connected devices that serve as sources for context data. For example other sources of context data include but are not limited to blue tooth devices USB devices flash drives fingerprint readers or other biometric devices heart rate monitors and the like.

The components described above are meant to exemplify some types of possibilities. In no way should the aforementioned examples limit the scope of the invention as they are only exemplary embodiments.

At block a navigation request is received at client . The navigation request may be as a result of end user interaction with a browser or local application. Alternatively the navigation request may be generated without end user involvement such as for example in the case of automated updates to software and the like.

At block responsive to the navigation request the client generates and transmits an augmented HTTP request including contextual data. According to one embodiment augmented HTTP request is a standard or conventional HTTP request but supplemented to include additional information relating to one or more of location information device data terminal capabilities operating system capabilities user data and time information. As described in more detail below according to one embodiment augmented HTTP request includes one or more customized HTTP X headers not shown for transmitting to a server i information regarding who the user is e.g. names addresses phone numbers gender personal advertising preferences social advertising preferences iii what the client device is what the operating system and or terminal capabilities are e.g. screen resolution color capabilities accepted compression etc. and iii information indicating where the client device is such as real time GPS location of the client device from which the request originated.

At block server receives augmented HTTP request . In one embodiment augmented HTTP request is first seen by a web server side plug in such as an Internet Server Application Programming Interface ISAPI filter. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a variety of alternative mechanisms by which the augmented HTTP request may be processed.

At block the server extracts contextual data provided by client from augmented HTTP request . As indicated above in one embodiment the contextual data is transmitted in one or more customized HTTP X header fields of the augmented HTTP request .

At block based on the contextual data an information server such as one of application servers or database server fronted by server customizes the content and or format of the content requested by client . As indicated above in one embodiment one or more environment variables are set and passed to the information server by the CGI protocol. Using whatever information may be of use to the information server the information server may then tailor the content returned and or format of the content returned to the client .

At block server generates and transmits an augmented HTML file to transmit to client with an HTTP response. According to one embodiment augmented HTML file represents a standard or conventional HTML file but supplemented to include additional information regarding a menu structure to be presented on the client . As described further below according to one embodiment custom menu information may be embedded within a comment of a script of the augmented HTML file . In another embodiment the custom menu information may be embedded within a meta tag defined for this purpose and recognized by the client side functionality. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a variety of ways in which custom menu information may be embedded within augmented HTML file .

In some embodiments the custom menu information may take into consideration all or part of the contextual data provided by the requesting client device . For example in one embodiment the context data may indicate the end user is a novice user. Responsive to this indication of the user s skill level the menu structure provided by the server may exclude advanced features. Similarly an indication within the context data provided by the client that the user is an expert user of the web service or application being accessed on the server may cause the server to provide the client with a menu structure that includes the advanced features.

At block augmented HTML file is received by client . In one embodiment augmented HTML file is first seen by a browser helper object such as browser helper object .

At block a menu structure of client is configured to respond appropriately to end user interaction based on the contextual menu information provided by the information server and the remaining content supplied in augmented HTML file is rendered on a display of the client device . According to one embodiment the information regarding the menu structure received in augmented HTML file is used to dynamically reconfigure the menu information structure presented by the operating system and or an application such as a mobile browser running on the client device . In one embodiment the browser helper object responsive to intercepting augmented HTML file invokes a menu overlay controller which creates overlay windows via appropriate windows overlay calls by obtaining the menu handle of the desired window e.g. the browser window menu handle and updating it. On an ongoing basis the overlay controller may then intercept calls when the browser menu key is pressed and may add other contextual menu entries on top of the current standard menu.

According to the present example the header of augmented HTTP request includes an HTTP ACCEPT ENCODING field which may be used to identify encryption and or compression used for encrypted fields such as fields . The header of augmented HTTP request also includes a HTTP MTHL field an HTTP HTTPM field and an HTTP USER AGENT field . The HTTP MTHL field may be used to indicate whether the requesting client supports Multiple Target Hyper Linking and if so which version. The HTTP HTTPM field may be used to indicate whether the requesting client supports the HTTPM protocol. The HTTP USER AGENT field may be used to identify the client and version to appropriate processing entities on the server.

In a header of the augmented HTTP request is shown after being received and decrypted by a server. At this point the data carried by the previously encrypted fields in this example including client device altitude client device latitude client device longitude an address of the client device s owner an email address of the client device s owner a name of the client device s owner and a telephone number of the client device s owner can be ascertained.

The exemplary contextual data described with reference to and is not intended to represent a comprehensive list of data that may be communicated from a client to a server. Rather for same of brevity and are intended to illustrate in a simplified manner a few examples of contextual data.

As indicated above various other static and dynamic device capabilities and information such as but not limited to screen size and resolution colors encryption and compression capabilities battery status IMEI number phone number email address accelerometer or gyro status screen orientation colors audio and video formats and the like may be provided as part of the contextual data communicated from a client device to a server.

As described further below with reference to in various embodiments of the present invention third party application developers may add custom request headers to any or all navigations being made to the web by implementing an API function that will be called by the client context manager such as client context manager prior to initiating a navigation request to the web. In this manner third party applications may insert whatever information they would like to convey as part of the navigation request.

In the present example the action portion is a text string representing an action to be performed responsive to the corresponding display portion being selected from the resulting customized menu. In one embodiment action portion may represent be a URL such as a script that runs on a server. Alternatively the action portion may represent a command recognized by the operating system or an application of the client device which when executed initiates activity taking place on the client device e.g. opening a contact list dialing a phone number sending an email or text message etc.

As indicated above as a result of the device user and location awareness provided to content and service providers by embodiments of the present invention numerous data usage models such as local search local advertising location based services mobile asset and policy management mobile content personalized content and the like become feasible. For purposes of illustrating the versatility of various embodiments of the contextual data communication platform additional use cases and examples will now be described however these specific examples are in no way intended to be limit the present invention as various alternatives modifications and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without varying from the spirit of the invention.

Use Case 1 Contextual Web Services Gaming Opportunities in the emerging adult and urban gaming niches along with commercial co marketing strategies are driving various game distributors and interactive entertainment software companies to examine their interactive software deployment strategies. For example mobile which is the newest game delivery extension has proven to be a support challenge. Currently users must select their carrier and then determine if their phone even accepts games from the distributor. Even if their mobile device does accept games from the particular distributor the end user must still determine which games are supported. As a result distributors are in need of a common web services based solution that works on all devices regardless of network.

The contextual data communication platform described herein can be used to support various online interactive gaming and retail tie ins. For example in an exemplary interactive game merchandising partnership players may create retail clothing stores and merchandising based upon the demographics of their location current or sneak peak merchandise and create fantasy stores base upon their style taste size etc. On their desktop device players may be able to view 3 D images of their store designs. On their mobile devices players may be provided the ability to find the nearest particular real world retail clothing stores receive simulation and real mobile coupon campaigns that they ve created online as well as view individual garments. On their mobile devices they can view images and videos of models with their particular body type clothing size or coloring.

In connection with a golf game golfers may be provided with the ability to take a professional golfer such as Tiger Woods or other PGA professionals on the road. For example from any golf course they may be provided with the ability to play against a selected professional golfer see the selected professional s lie and what shots the selected professional has taken and compare their game to the selected professional golfer. Course location and shots played may be determined by GPS or course installed near field communication NFC infrastructure such as wireless access points. Users can download device appropriate video clips of great golf shots pictures of amazing golf holes and inspirational music to help them psych up for the day s competition. Weather conditions and altitude may also influence the game. As a result shot recommendations and play may be adjusted based upon actual location and local weather reports. Players may also be provided with the ability to build profiles based on height weight and handicap. Access to different branded golf clubs and branded golf balls may also allow the player to see the effects gear changes may have on a particular shot and given their personal profile. Meanwhile using dynamic contextual menu information pushed to the player s mobile device product information and the closet retail outlet for those clubs and balls are just a menu selection away.

Personalization is a hallmark of simulation games but privacy can be a concern. Adults and concerned parents can therefore build customization into their gaming by making personal information available only during that gaming session. Real time location data supports accurate simulations comparisons as well as contextually relevant tie ins to consumer goods and retail outlets. This keeps game costs down for consumers and tolerable if not actually relevant for gamers. Making the appropriate options available for each device 3 D on the desktop low res video clips or 1 D barcodes on mobile ensures that usability is always optimized for whatever device the game is using.

In such a scenario benefits to game distributors and interactive entertainment software companies include increased penetration into an under served profitable market possibly expanded embedded advertising revenue and closed loop marketing opportunities with promotional partners. Some game distributors and interactive entertainment software companies may even use such opportunities as a chance to test a new delivery model in advance of smartphone adoption by their primary customer base. According to various embodiments of the contextual data communication platform game distributors and interactive entertainment software companies may realize CAPEX OPEX efficiencies realize faster time to market for mobile games as a result of one infrastructure supporting both mobile and desktop games regardless of public private or carrier network.

Use Case 2 Contextual Web Services customer relationship management CRM According to various embodiments the contextual data communication platform is designed with both businesses and their employees and customers in mind. The software balances the need for privacy and control with the need for commerce and convenience. Nowhere are control and convenience more in conflict than within the Sales organization. Sales force automation SFA and CRM applications offer the promise of world class customer care and sales productivity. Unfortunately that promise is seldom realized as it requires complete access to customer inventory territory and marketing information. Keeping customer and territory information up to date requires a data entry discipline that is seldom the strong suit of the average salesperson. Next finding a way to conveniently access and view this information while on the road is often challenging.

SFA applications are designed to deliver the necessary information if they get the required input. The application is simply missing the context of the each specific user and situation. With it data entry is minimized making it more likely and data can be formatted properly for a laptop PDA or smartphone. Context manager and data applications implemented for the contextual data communication platform can reduce sales data entry and boost productivity and usage by allowing automatic population of user and account management data based upon physical location and sales representative profile.

As part of the CRM infrastructure an organization that adds the following contextual data to its customer employee inventory billing and product information databases can see significant CRM compliance and productivity gains 

Armed with a GPS enabled device a salesperson traveling to China for example may meet with a customer. A GPS read may be required before accessing certain data and the sales person is notified. The salesperson may then access the SFA system via the web for live customer history inventory availability and pricing information. The salesperson may be automatically logged in to both their and their customer s account information. Only the inventory that meets U.S. export laws to China is shown as available and the amounts are displayed properly for the device. The purchase price may then be negotiated and agreed upon without delay. The customer requests a product schematic but the request is denied because technical drawings cannot be downloaded when visiting mainland China due to company IP policies. The entire transaction history may be captured and exported to the sales reporting system. The only data entry required is for the amount of each item and personal notes that the salesperson wishes to include.

Use Case 3 Contextual Web Services Retail Merchandising Food and beverage companies may uses contract merchandisers and mystery shoppers to keep inventory and point of purchase displays up to date and aligned with promotions in retail stores. At times the companies receive conflicting reports regarding merchandising compliance from their merchandisers and store personnel and have no good means of communicating last minute adjustments to a specific retail outlet s merchandising plan or verifying merchandising compliance in real time.

Using various embodiments of the contextual data communication platform merchandising staff may be supplied with mobile devices having both camera and GPS functionality. GPS functionality may be enabled upon reaching the assigned retail store. Based upon the location and store which may be determined by GPS address mapping a menu of merchandising tasks may be provided in the browser menu responsive to dynamic contextual menu information received at the mobile device when the merchandiser logs on. The task list may be modified based upon current expired and planned promotions regional or market differences individual store demographics and or available inventory. Inventory counts may be entered manually or scanned from devices with built in scanning capabilities. When the tasks are completed a photograph of merchandising displays may be taken with GPS time and retail outlook specific data may be embedded and automatically uploaded as part of the report. A complete audit cycle may therefore be built into the standard field automation web service.

In such a scenario benefits to food and beverage companies include merchandising instructions and compliance reporting being made available by the ability to access real time location time inventory and promotional data some of which comes from the device and others of which come from disparate databases from multiple sources e.g. the food and beverage company an advertising agency a retail store a merchandising organization . Embedded image data provides a means for accurate visual compliance verification with no typing or manual file transfers. Typing is minimal instructions are relevant to the specific situation and ambiguity is low. Further benefits may include improved field productivity improved field accuracy real time compliance audits immediate notification of onsite issues in conflict with planned promotions CAPEX OPEX efficiencies improved demand chain communications reduced audit costs payment only for confirmed merchandising services and the like.

Use Case 4 Contextual Web Services News and Information Business to Business B2B Without the benefit of embodiments of the present invention an online business news and information site may exist that includes one or more blogs demos mobile news product reviews and customer feedback options. The site may have ties to one or more analyst groups that provide a set of services the web site service provider believes will be relevant to their users. The site may or may not be supported by advertising. On mobile the online business news and information site customers cannot easily navigate through all the links view images or have the necessary memory to download podcasts or conference videos.

In an embodiment in which the online business news and information site is configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention mobile visitors to web site may be given browser menu options versus pages. The options may include subscribing or unsubscribing to a blog presenting only those demos that are compatible with the user s mobile device and then quickly and easily rating them for other users benefit. The site may link to a partnering mobile analyst where podcasts can be downloaded or viewed based on device capabilities and reports can be listed and purchased assuming the analyst can verify user ID and generate a corporate invoice. And users can read product reviews that are instantly prioritized based upon the device they have. If the web site is advertising driven advertisers can buy menu placement spots delivered to the mobile device in the form of dynamic contextual menu information for example that navigate to their offer or sponsor or the advertisers may graphically sponsor a service such as a podcast or review.

In such a scenario benefits to the users of the online business news and information site include easy to use menu driven services and information navigation. For example device contextual data drives the priority of services and products that are offered to the mobile user. Such customization can also increase customer satisfaction as the chance of a positive download experience increases when only device compatible options are presented. Device information combined with subscriber profile information may also the mobile web service to personalize the services and information menu and ensure that advertising is relevant to that specific user.

Benefits to the web service include the extension of web services to mobile users ease of use for their mobile customers increased relevance for their mobile customers the extension of the advertising revenue model to the mobile platform the creation of marketing partnership lead generation revenue share opportunities CAPEX OPEX efficiencies the ability to rapidly develop new services menu navigation may be quickly and easily modified based upon user feedback and device appropriate options may reduce customer support calls on regarding downloads.

Use Case 5 Contextual Web Services Web Developer A web marketing communications company is looking to differentiate itself from other full service marketing communications agencies focused on the high tech market and increase its longevity with existing accounts to help buffer the unpredictability associated with tech startup clients. While tech industry expertise relationship building and process are true differentiators to attract its ideal customers the company needs to strengthen its value proposition without straying from the core competencies that have it made it successful to date.

Using various embodiments and features of the contextual data communication platform described herein the company may be provided with a unique opportunity to leverage its strengths to get new business 

Customers and colleagues may also be provided with click to call access to company account managers. Company may provide access or email text message alerts of new leads access to documents for review and approval and helpful hints press coverage as it becomes available. All of this can be provided directly to a smartphone or PDA. As a result of using embodiments of the contextual data communication platform information and services that already exist may now be feasibly delivered and used via mobile and automatically routed to the appropriate users.

Use Case 6 Contextual Web Services Mobile Electronic Commerce E Commerce For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that a payment processing service such as Amazon Flexible Payment Service FPS Google Checkout or PayPal wants to extend its services to facilitate mobile e commerce. The payment processing service also wants to ensure that branding opportunities for mobile payment processing exist as the brand communicates trust confidence security and quality to the consumer and is part of the value proposition to their vendor customers who pay for the billing service. Their goal is to support both content providers who require micropayment capabilities as well as traditional product and service vendors who outsource their payment processing for e commerce transactions. Consolidating payment processing with a single provider for mobile and desktop transactions simplifies the business processes for both the vendors and their customers.

To illustrate an exemplary contextual web services solution using an embodiment of the contextual data communication platform described herein consider the following Jim s friend emails him the link for the Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP phone he s been looking for. Jim sees the email on his smartphone while waiting for his flight and clicks through. He enters his order quantity and selects checkout. The payment processing service icon appears in the top browser bar letting Jim know that his purchase will be hassle free and secure. Since he has several shipping addresses in his profile he simply selects the UK office and overnight delivery and hits pay. His phone will be waiting for him in the UK office day after tomorrow. Just before returning home he downloads several songs direct from a local musician s web site that uses the payment processing service. The local artist provides the option to receive concert and CD updates. With a simple yes selection Jim s email address automatically populates the musician s email subscription list. On the flight home he sees a Sky Mall special for a plasma TV that expires at midnight. He rips out the page and when he lands goes to their web site and enters the SKU and promo code. To protect payment processing service its merchants and consumers from fraud this level of purchase over 500 requires multi tier authentication in the form of a login password and fingerprint or voice authentication. Jim is already logged in which satisfies the first two criteria. Since his current phone does not have a fingerprint reader on it he is prompted to speak his pass phrase. The credentials are verified and the TV purchase approved. Jim receives his monthly consolidated payment processing service statement as does the VOIP phone merchant Sky Mall and the local musician.

In view of the foregoing scenario it should be appreciated that using various embodiments of the present invention allows payment processing organizations to now compete with the carriers offering cost effective secure billing services to a significantly broader group of online merchants. By adding contextual web services to the mobile commerce m commerce ecosystem these organizations can help their retail and content provider customers overcome the remaining consumer barriers to m commerce adoption such as reducing mobile data entry hassles improving storefront and checkout navigation addressing data privacy management concerns and improving transactional security with bi directional multi factor authentication.

Benefits to payment processors include improved value proposition to retail and content provider customers highly personalized service and consumer satisfaction levels single source of payment processing for e and m commerce transactions browser based branding on all mobile transactions device resident branding that supports shopping and account management behaviors CAPEX OPEX efficiencies one web service works for desktop and mobile customers all service functionality is field updatable ability to integrate with self service account management or campaign management systems via a web services infrastructure and works with existing web and web services infrastructure including Secure Sockets Layer SSL .

Use Case 7 Contextual Web Services Fashion Mobizine For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that an online fashion magazine XYZ Fashion is launching a new online publication that features music videos images and stories supporting fashion trends news and events. The website is targeted to the sophisticated female fashion consumer filling an important gap in women s oriented web content. Content will be highly engaging and interactive a collaboration of top fashion music and celebrity icons. Advertising will be used to support the venture and the basic web design is being built for an upcoming fundraising launch. The company is considering use of a matrix code or two dimensional bar code such as Quick Response QR codes as a shortcut for mobile users to reaching the site for the first time. An alternative approach is to use a shorter URL such as www.xyzfash.tv .com .net . Since this will become a destination website visitors subscribers will likely bookmark the site for future visits.

To illustrate an exemplary contextual web services solution using an embodiment of the contextual data communication platform described herein consider the following scenario Upon visiting the XYZ web site for the first time visitors may be encouraged to download a mobile browser plug in that will reduce data entry allow for the receipt of personalized content and enable services such as Fashion Find to quickly find a local retail outlet for an item featured in web site content or ads. In addition to enabling contextual advertising and knowing in which format to send the content having access to contextual data enables additional services such as events reminder make over days fashion shows which when tied to local ads and coupons can close the marketing loop and provide advertisers with direct return on investment ROI on XYZ Fashion advertising investment. Other services may include consumer rating of products or services true fit half size too small too narrow beautiful but get a cami if you re modest and special fit features such as ideal clothing for apples pears or hourglass figures or best hair styles for oval faces round faces or high foreheads. Videos images ads designers articles and reviews can all be prioritized to match each user s profile tailored conservative avant garde favorite designers Chanel Vera Wang or age gender whatever context the company or consumer desires. Consumers may want to see everything but appreciate the recommendations that are most flattering or comfortable. On mobile since so little data can be presented on the screen at once being able to prioritize and send the most pertinent content first improves customer satisfaction.

In view of the foregoing it should be appreciated that using various embodiments of the present invention all of these selections may be based upon the ability to offer site appropriate menu selections and deliver to a mobile device with minimal typing the content that best represents XYZ Fashion s high end brand and meets the customers needs. The ability to improve service levels for mobile users may be enhanced using the web browser as a common interface since nothing new must be learned. XYZ Fashions services can be instantly extended by providing additional services simply by linking and passing along this data to a mapping site an advertiser s site or an artist s or designer s site minimal work for XYZ Fashion maximum value for its readers.

Use Case 8 Contextual Web Services Electronic Concierge eConcierge Services For purposes of this illustration it is assumed a hotel chain has partnered with an eConcierge service to allow guests to plan their ultimate customized itinerary and preferences. Everything from favorite coffee typical wake up and check out times amenities used such as golf gym or spa facilities and favorite room gifts wine and cheese or fruit and water. Creating such a personalized profile can dramatically improve service levels and guest loyalty to the hotel chain. For frequent travelers it is important to extend this level of communication and customization to mobile customers who often receive confirmation and preference questions while on the road with their mobile devices. Being able to extend the eConcierge services to mobile customers simply quickly and cost effectively will allow the eConcierge service company to dominate the personalized travel and hospitality services space.

To illustrate an exemplary contextual web services solution using an embodiment of the contextual data communication platform described herein consider the following Ralph booked a last minute trip to Kansas City with a stay at the hotel chain. Along with his email confirmation he received a link to a series of personal preference questions. He confirmed his reservation was accurate and saved the email to review once he was on the road. From his smartphone he went back to the link and was able to navigate the options via his browser. With his thumb he quickly selected his favorite coffee and a foam pillow to be waiting for him in his room. He was also able to pre register for wireless web access and set his code and billing preferences and arrange for an extra gym towel and 3 bottles of spring water. Ralph and his family were planning a 10 day trip to Hawaii next month so he also received an option to access that itinerary which provided him with a list of options for tee times and then returned recommended walk up call times to make the early tee times. He also received recommendations regarding spa treatments for his wife and activities for the kids. Ralph was also provided a selection of island activities and arranged for mask fins and snorkels to be waiting in the room along with suggested snorkeling beaches for his children s age. Ralph selected two that looked interesting and received maps and detailed driving and walking directions from the hotel. The remaining activities they planned each evening as the children finished their daily splash down water slide while Ralph and his wife enjoyed pool side drinks ordered from their GPS enabled mobile phone from the location aware bar service which automatically charged the drinks to their room.

In view of the foregoing it should be appreciated that using various embodiments of the present invention all of these selections may be based upon the ability to offer site appropriate menu selections and deliver with minimal typing the content that best addresses the guests travel requirements or interests. While full descriptions and colorful photographs are ideal for the family gathered around the PC only the selection criteria are needed for mobile users. The same back end powers both providing a seamless but device appropriate experience for the traveler on the run resort guest or the home based travel planner.

Use Case 9 Contextual Web Services Mobile Social Networking For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that an early stage social networking service MobSN that allows users to share and congregate around online hot spots just as they might in physical world hot spots such as clubs restaurants or the mall wants to re create the environmental influences of the physical world within an online community. Knowing where friends or influential people visit or hang out can help others to learn enjoy and find camaraderie. While the company is still determining its final business model tracking online behavior and either serving contextual ads or marketing the data to contextual advertisers is one possible revenue solution. Since MobSN is re creating a physical social phenomenon in cyberspace it was never intended to augment the physical activity however using various embodiments of the present invention taking the roofs off a restaurant and peering inside to see who is gathered there is very possible.

Using various embodiments of the contextual data communication platform mobile MobSN may help users locate their friends and hot hang outs. With the advent of GPS enabled mobile devices MobSN users can make their social plans by checking to see where their MobSN friends are hanging out. Searches or finds can be done on friends or a defined geo radius 3 miles from home or venue type within a geographic radius or community bar restaurant club movie theaters bowling alleys soccer fields parks etc. . Just like with cyber MobSN physical MobSN users can enable disable location sharing with a single click. Mobile MobSN can be customized to support physical social communities such as resorts theme parks ski areas or beach clubs where groups of people are likely to get separated from their parties or singles are looking for ideas of what to do. It is also ideal for social networking within college campuses.

The mobile interface is not large enough to accommodate the existing desktop controls so menu options to find and search are available via the browser and general or community MobSN maps may be made available as web pages to display the location of MobSN network members on the entire browser screen. Walking or driving directions may also be easily derived from this data as an added service. Local ads coupons or time sensitive offers may also be delivered on screen or in the menus encouraging physical world meetings. Once found menus could offer MobSN users click to call or click to text features instantly putting members in touch with each other to confirm a meeting. And for added privacy protection users or the system may challenge an invitation or meeting request by asking for some agreed upon phrase biometric confirmation or alphanumeric code.

In view of the foregoing and in the context of the present example it should be appreciated that using various embodiments of the present invention all of these selections may be based upon the ability to offer site appropriate contextual menu selections and deliver with minimal typing the content that best addresses MobSN member social networking needs. It provides MobSN with the cyber equivalent of their service for mobile Web users traveling in the physical world.

Use Case 10 Contextual Web Services Search Portals For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that a search portal is trying to extend its web services to mobile users. The company has already created rich search options that are delivered via the browser to desktop users. Unfortunately it has proven more difficult than anticipated to deliver services to every mobile user regardless of device or carrier. And on mobile the screen size simply does not allow for the richness of the desktop applications to shine through. Other search companies portals are creating separate applications with separate interfaces for each desired service such as search and mapping. This is slow and expensive requiring development distribution and maintenance of every new application on every mobile device to deliver the same broad based web service coverage they enjoy on the desktop. Customers are used to searching shopping and mapping via the browser.

To illustrate an exemplary contextual web services solution using an embodiment of the contextual data communication platform described herein consider the following scenario Sarah teaches architecture at NYU. She loves everything Italian music coffee cycling wine and gelato and is currently looking for a Tuscan style house. She s taking a new way home from school today and searches for coffee. She gets the coffee houses listed in order of proximity to her current location with Amante they offer gelato at the top of the list. The search is sponsored by a real estate agent specializing in European design home sales within the burrough she is walking through. She clicks to call the agent and sets up a meeting at the coffee house for tomorrow at 2 00. She gets turn by turn directions and walks the route to make sure the place is not a dive. The agent confirms via a text message. She loves the building and snaps a shot with phone camera embedding the GPS coordinates. She uploads her photo and automatically overlays it onto a city Map where she creates both a photographic travel journal and customized architectural walking tour to more actively engage her students. These are saved and stored to her blog in English and Italian so she can edit them and print them once she gets to work. She is planning an Italian cycling trip next month and uses the search portal s ad sponsored converter to see how far her dollars will go in Euros and converts kilometers to miles to determine the distance of her upcoming ride. On the first conversion she learns of a new opera and the second provides a 20 off coupon for cycling shorts.

In view of the foregoing it should be appreciated that benefits of various embodiments of the present invention in the context of the present example include the delivery of location data to the search engine to minimize data entry and return local and contextually relevant search results advertising is both local and relevant even to temporary behavior such as house hunting location data paired with photo blogging and mapping services creates a powerful educational and social networking tool. Meanwhile as above all of these selections may be based upon the ability to offer site appropriate menu selections and services accessed via a mobile browser to ensure easy navigation that is user customized.

Use Case 11 Contextual Web Services Mobile Archiving For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that a wireless carrier is trying to extend its Wireless Access Protocol WAP services to the mobile web and extend its reach into enterprise. This will drive net new customers and increase the average revenue per user ARPU of existing customers as they buy more powerful phones and utilize data services on a more regular basis. On mobile archiving is primarily about saving photos music and videos. Very few text files are created on a mobile device therefore archiving services that support existing user behaviors are more likely to be adopted than trying to establish new behaviors. At the same time enterprises are trying to extend existing process and applications to mobile users. Both customer sets need to speed time to market and keep expenses in check. As a result leveraging existing infrastructure relationships and resources to achieve their goals is helpful.

To illustrate an exemplary contextual web services solution using an embodiment of the contextual data communication platform described herein consider the following scenario Bill is a house inspector. Sarah is a real estate appraiser. Robert is traffic accident investigator. Barbara is an insurance investigator and Walter is an attorney. All of these professionals spend time both in the field and in the office and they all collect data in the field. Today it is primarily photographs but it could also include other sensory input such as mold spore counts air particulate levels or decibel readings. Data may also include field interviews consisting of voice and or video recordings. In many cases this data must follow a specific chain of evidence requiring that the originator of the data be identified the information be time stamped that the date be delivered into an approved storage vault within a specified period of time of origination. It may also require a location and collection device identifier. This data may then be used in raw form or merged with other data once our professionals return to their offices. On the consumer side of things photo blogging travel journals and online photo and video albums are a few of the most popular archival based services that can benefit from mobile uploads that are time geo tagged and subject to sharing with others. It ensures the users don t forget critical information between when they are out and about and when they get home to organize or edit their data from a desktop computer. Additional variations on these themes are Christmas Birthday and home d cor wish lists and home inventory sponsored by an insurance firm for example .

In view of the foregoing it should be appreciated that benefits of various embodiments of the present invention in the context of the present example include higher customer satisfaction increased loyalty and ARPU opportunity for new fee based services and ad partnerships the ability to brand within the HTTP browser the opportunity for expanded use models of existing archival systems stronger value proposition with leveraged used for fixed and mobile users CAPEX OPEX efficiencies faster time to market for mobile services mobile services use the same infrastructure as desktop services and mobile application development is not required.

Furthermore the hardware as a service HaaS model is growing at a rapid pace. Each service provider must determine the mobile storage use models that best meet their customers needs. What differentiates one service provider from another offering the same service is the user interface and flexibility. With the contextual data support as described above users are able to type less but have access to much richer data on which to sort and organize their content for later use. It can also simplify data input tracking and management processes and offer extended security options as mobile devices become more advanced and include bar code scanners and biometric features.

Use Case 12 Contextual Web Services Mobile Entertainment MVNO For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that an entertainment network ABC Entertainment Network delivers digitally protected video to the worldwide mobile community. Subscribers to ABC s exclusive Mobile Entertainment Network can view full length movies TV shows music videos newscasts weather forecasts sporting events animation cartoons comics and much much more anytime anywhere. It appears that ABC works in partnership with the carriers but functions as an entertainment content Mobile Virtual Network Operators MVNO supported by advertising revenue. The current services are offered via feature phones equipped with WAP 2.0 browsers and are targeted strictly to consumers.

Leveraging embodiments of the contextual data communication platform described herein ABC can extend its services and advertising revenue beyond the feature phone user and into the professional consumer Prosumer market. On smartphones regardless of carrier or network the user bypasses typing any text codes. They simply select more info or call me from the ABC branded browser and not only is their telephone information transmitted to ABC and its advertising partners but users can send along other data such as age personal interests favorite team email address and location without the need to manually login or type anything. Ads become more personalized and have a higher value and services such as weather sports scores and preferred media selections can be automatically sent or prioritized for selection via personalized menus. Also device capabilities such as screen size and resolution are automatically transmitted to ABC so the optimal media format may be presented to customers. Users type less data and get exactly what they want and advertisers get pinpoint targeting data. All this can be done without dependence on the carrier. Additionally by targeting smartphone and PDA users ABC can expand its media relationships and deliver business focused content and e zines sponsored by B2B advertisers interested in mobile professionals such as CRM companies courier services airlines hotels carriers etc.

By adding HTTP browser supported services ABC can reach a broader audience by expanding its services to smartphones. Those services can be available to existing smartphone customers and may also be integrated into new phones distributed by ABC. Because the HTTP browser is used for smartphone delivered services ABC can boost its profits as carrier assistance to identify phone number and customer name is not required. On screen branding is available in the browser tool bar and menus ensuring the ABC brand stays in front of their customers whenever utilizing the browser or using an ABC service and training is minimal

Use Case 13 Contextual Web Services Law Enforcement For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that a local police department is looking for a cost effective way to support all mobile officers whether they be on foot bicycle motorcycle patrol car or accident mobile command center vehicle. A web service approach appears to be the way to go as it can be delivered regardless of device type or connection method. Currently the city is using PDAs laptops and specialized in vehicle ultra mobile PCs UMPCs for data transmissions. Voice is primarily handled via radio for dispatch and field officer calls and cell phone for general business and investigative calls.

Using various embodiments of the contextual data communication platform officers can now log into all of their devices using biometrics and the system recognizes who they are and knows what cases or calls they ve been assigned. All devices are equipped with GPS for both safety and evidence handling purposes and for some officers scanners have been included to read vehicle identification numbers VINs or other barcoded identification materials. For those investigators assigned to a traffic accident or crime scene they may be presented a list of tasks required for that call which could include photographing or videoing the scene geotagging the image s with the detective s name time and location and even a check list of required questions or evidence collection recommendations to ensure nothing critical is overlooked. Additional notes may be added and embedded with the files. For patrol officers making a traffic stop they can check VIN registration license plate and driver s license info from their handheld device scanning or typing in just the required data. First responders can rapidly request Fire EMT or ambulance services with location directions and officer data automatically attached. Routine traffic stops can be recorded from both in the vehicle and from mobile devices. Department policy controls regarding evidence handling may be enforced for example allowing for an officer to initiate an in vehicle recording from their mobile device but not to allow the recording to be stopped until they leave the scene.

In view of the foregoing and in the context of the present example it should be appreciated that using various embodiments of the present invention provide one or more of the following benefits automatically knowing where each on duty officer is and what their status is facilitates dispatching and case assignments embedding time date crime accident scene notes and officer data into photographs and video provides consistent evidence documentation having one button access to emergency assistance that can communicate officer and location data can save time lives and property and in situations where voice communications are impossible or unwise critical information or requests for assistance can be easily delivered. Meanwhile having a common interface regardless of vehicle or device ensures that once an officer is trained they can immediately and effectively work with any assigned vehicle or device.

Use Case 14 Contextual Web Services Homeland Security Homeland Security is looking for a cost effective way to support emergency first responders and to ensure that regardless of agency all first responders have access to the same information and resources. A web service approach appears to be the way to go as it can be delivered regardless of device type or connection method. Currently emergency first responders are using a combination of Smartphones PDAs laptops ruggedized mobile devices and specialized in vehicle UMPCs for data transmissions. Voice is primarily handled via radio many with Internet connectivity and cell phone.

Using various embodiments of the contextual data communication platform when first responders log in the emergency management system recognizes who they are and knows what security access and or subject matter is available to them. Devices may be equipped with GPS for both safety and data gathering purposes. For those responders assigned to search and rescue they can be presented a list of residents or high risk sites such as hospitals schools day care centers or senior homes. This way no one is forgotten during the early hours of confusion. Additional scene management and data evidence gathering task lists can be presented which could include environmental data gathering photographing or videoing the scene geotagging the image s or data with the first responder s name time and location and any other notes deemed important. A check list of safety or first aid procedures can also be presented. First responders can rapidly request Fire EMT or Hazmat with location and directions automatically attached. Environmental data can be transmitted through their mobile device via Bluetooth or USB and immediately uploaded to an agency server and instructions returned to the first responder to clear the area seek medical attention or how to properly collect and mark samples. All data may be consolidated and mashed up with maps to give off site agency personnel a real time view of how resources are deployed regardless of agency affiliation. And data may be directed to one or more agencies based upon the first responders credentials local fire and Homeland Security or CDC National Guard and Homeland Security .

In view of the foregoing and in the context of the present example it should be appreciated that using various embodiments of the present invention provide one or more of the following benefits automatically knowing where each first responder is and what they are doing facilitates coordination across multiple local state and national agencies as well as volunteer organizations embedding time date and responder notes into photographs and video provides consistent scene documentation having one button access to emergency assistance and procedures and communicating exact location saves time lives and property and in situations where voice communications are unsecure encrypted data transmissions may be delivered in real time. Meanwhile having a common interface the browser regardless of device ensures that any first responder can immediately and effectively use the system.

Use Case 15 Contextual Web Services News and Information Business to Consumer B2C For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that a local television news web site is being extended to deliver mobile web services to its viewers. They plan to deliver local and national world news business news health and fitness tips entertainment and community information local forecast and weather traffic school closing and Amber alerts. The site is supported by advertising.

Leveraging embodiments of the contextual data communication platform described herein when a mobile user pulls up the news site they may be given various service options rather than web pages. For example each user may be provided with a MyNews page where they can set their preferences and determine what information will be presented and in what order. Service options can include downloading printed stories or video news segments presenting only those videos and images that are compatible with the user s mobile device and or that do not exceed the user s available memory. The site may link to a national or global news partner Gannett BBC NBC News WSJ where world news or stock quotes are available. Because the area is prone to severe weather flash flooding and tornadoes visitors can opt in to receive weather alerts. They can also select to receive traffic alerts Amber alerts and school closings based upon their address zip code or GPS coordinates. The site also includes an Entertainment selection that presents weekend events has a local restaurant and movie search service based upon the user s location information. They can even watch movie trailers read a review or rate a movie. Because this web site is advertising driven advertisers can buy menu placement spots that navigate to their offer or graphically sponsor a service such as the Weather or Daily Health Tip. Advertising can be contextually presented based upon location preferences and selected services such as daily health tips or school closure alerts which provides additional demographic information about the mobile site visitor.

One clear benefit of usage of contextual data and a common web services interface in the present example for mobile customers is easy to use menu driven services and information navigation. In this case device contextual data may be used to drive the priority of services and products that are offered to the mobile user. It can also increase customer satisfaction as the chance of a positive download experience increases when only device compatible options are presented. Device information combined with visitor profile information allows the mobile web service to personalize the services and information menu and ensure that advertising is relevant to that specific user.

Use Case 16 Contextual Web Services Retail E Commerce For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that a coffeehouse such as Starbucks wants to extend its web service offerings to their mobile users to improve loyalty and to reduce the morning and afternoon commute crunch on store employees. They also hope to increase the sale of their food music and collectible inventory. To do so they would like to tie their existing loyalty program to their payment processing system and individual store inventories. For transactional simplicity they want to tie all mobile transactions to their existing debit card.

To illustrate an exemplary contextual web services solution using an embodiment of the contextual data communication platform described herein consider the following scenarios Every time a mobile user comes to the coffeehouse web site or clicks on the coffeehouse logo that might be presented in their browser menu they are instantly logged into the mobile web service page that has been customized for them because the site was able to read their loyalty member card number from the contextual data stored on the user s mobile device. On GPS enabled devices the user can automatically find the closet store to their location and get a map or driving directions. For commuters in a rush they can place their order have it sent to the nearest location or selected location and have their coffeehouse card automatically debited. They can indicate whether they will pick up at the drive thru or inside counter. Because the coffeehouse s web service center knows it s Bob Smith he can already set up his preferences to make the ordering process even easier the usual a Grande Caramel Macchiato with whip or set up a list of frequently ordered items that can be quickly selected from his browser menu . If he wants something different that day he can select the menu until he finds what he wants. Because this is a live two way conversation and it is the morning commute on Valentine s Day Bob can be offered a plain croissant instead of banana nut bread he s included nut allergies in his profile stored on his mobile device and the latest Starbuck s Love Songs CD and pink heart travel mug just in case. Because this store is overstocked on mugs Bob is offered a 25 discount. He can accept or ignore the offers and hit the pay button. Then he simply drives up or walks in to get his coffee which is piping hot because the web service knew how far away he was when he placed his order. If he does not have enough funds left in his debit account he can hit the reload button. During quieter hours of the day the menus are adjusted to allow for mobile coupon delivery and in store payment options. And of course if Bob has regular commuting partners or family members he can add them to my companions list for streamlined ordering on his day to pay.

In view of the foregoing and in the context of the present example it should be appreciated that using various embodiments of the present invention all of these transactions may be based upon the ability to offer personalized services that tie on device user profile local inventory levels and payment information back to a loyalty program e.g. a Starbucks Card number . User device location data and time all trigger different options from the coffeehouse web services applications to deliver a highly personalized experience and web service transaction set to meet the needs of both the customer and individual retail locations. The ability to extend the loyalty program into an e commerce service is made possible by contextual data and the power and flexibility provided by transforming the browser into a true mobile web service interface.

Use Case 17 Contextual Web Services Airline Loyalty A common situation a business traveler s meeting goes over the planned time. He she leaves late encounters unexpected traffic and long security lines at the airport. This causes missed flights changes to hotel and car rental reservations and possible re arranging of the next day s meetings.

Using various embodiments of the contextual data communication platform an airline may facilitate reservation changes. For example upon leaving the meeting late the business traveler may select United from their customized browser menu presented on his her mobile device. The United Mileage Plus web site may be displayed the user automatically logged in and his her location confirmed. Additionally the route to the airport may be mapped and traffic conditions reported. Airport security line status may also be checked and the traveler may be provided with the option to confirm online check in check points upgrade with points change flight or cancel flight. If the flight is changed or cancelled the traveler may be provided with the ability to select from either United s travel partners list or their own shortcuts to Marriott and or Hertz and may be provided with another set of options from these service providers including late arrival or late checkout changing reservations request shuttle get directions change class of car etc.

As in various of the earlier use cases in the context of the present example it should be appreciated that using various embodiments of the present invention all of these selections may be based upon the ability to offer site appropriate menu selections and deliver from a profile database on the mobile device without typing the Loyalty Program number and user login location data and time. The ability to improve service levels for mobile users is enhanced using the web browser as a common interface. Loyalty program services can be instantly extended by providing additional services simply by linking and passing along this data to a mapping site weather site or airport status database.

Use Case 18 Contextual Web Services Life Science Data Hub Model For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that a pharmaceutical company is actively running a clinical trial with hospitals and clinics around the U.S. for a new use of an established drug that was originally FDA approved for use as an allergy medication. Several doctors have reported that a side effect of the medication in some patients is euphoria. The company is examining the effectiveness and safety of using this drug in higher doses as an anti depressant with hopes of it having fewer side effects than currently available formulations. The primary concern is that too high a dose may have adverse affects on the cardio pulmonary system including increased heart rate blood pressure hyper ventilation and risk of vascular damage that could lead to bruising or small blood vessel tears.

Using various embodiments and features of the contextual data communication platform described herein data may be input on desktop laptops tablet PCs and or smartphones PDAs. Patient medical data must be stored and transmitted consistent with HIPAA compliance secured on device and during transmission. Both new clinical trial and past clinical trial data may be accessed from multiple databases and cross referenced by multiple organizations and individuals.

Patients may be given access to a web journal to report any mood changes side effects or problems on a daily basis. When patents log in the company web server knows who they are and opens their case file. Categorizing side effects and presenting in browser action menus for reporting results as mild moderate or severe can populate the adverse event reporting system and trigger outbound communications and instructions to doctors and trial participants with similar medical situation profiles. Additionally since bruising or bleeding is a concern vascular system imagery and physical examination photograph may be required to supplement doctors notes and basic readings. Date time location device ID patient ID and doctor ID can be embedded in the image to ensure accuracy.

In view of the foregoing scenario it should be appreciated that using various embodiments of the present invention allows a menu driven web interface to facilitate patient compliance of daily journal entries and ensure interface consistency across multiple devices. User and location data including GPS which includes altitude information may be relevant to test results as cardio pulmonary function is affected by oxygen levels and relative pressure against tiny blood vessels. If not available Zip code or city mashed up with topographical records can provide this data. Speed and accuracy of electronic data input and image uploading reduces workload and improves accuracy. Encryption and data compression keep data transport fast and compliant with HIPAA standards.

Use Case 19 Contextual Web Services Internet Protocol Television IPTV For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that a cable service provider would like to offer their existing set top box services to customers who are away from their set top box and television. Extending the service may be offered as a loyalty program a means to augment existing subscription revenues or both. The cable television provider would also like to bolster advertising revenues and is looking for a way to extend their existing local advertising model. Additionally the cable television provider is experimenting with new revenue ad generating models that could be offered by levering the Internet to deliver IPTV services to their customers.

One challenge in connection with achieving the above goal a cable television provider such as Comcast is being able to follow their customers to any Internet connected device. To illustrate an exemplary contextual web services solution using an embodiment of the contextual data communication platform described herein consider the following Bill has purchased the new Comcast Digital Anywhere Gold package. On his train commute home Sunday evenings he can watch the Sopranos on his mobile device formatted for his 240 240 screen and delivered with maximum compression. He no longer has to wait to see his favorite program until everyone else is asleep His wife hates it and it s too mature for the kids . He simply opens up his browser goes to the Comcast home page and is automatically logged into and selects from live or re broadcasted options. On Monday s Bill s wife Mary wants to watch Dancing with Stars and their teenage daughter Beth wants to watch Heroes while Bill and the boys watch 24. They only have one set top box so Mary goes into the office they have Comcast s high speed Internet service and watches Dancing with Stars. But before she does changes her account settings giving Comcast permission to activate Beth s PCs for all basic cable channels and Bill s mobile for the entire Gold Anywhere service. The women watch their programs live on their computers with national and local commercials tailored for her neighborhood and demographics . Because the program request made to Comcast contains operating system and device capabilities the video is perfectly formatted for their 17 High Def displays and since Beth has Harman Kardon speakers CD quality audio streams for Heroes.

Jim watches Heroes on his GPS enabled laptop in a hotel room two cities over and he is receiving local advertisements for restaurants in room pizza delivery and the local airport shuttle. He then orders a pay per view movie which he downloads to watch on his flight home and the charge simply shows up on his monthly bill. Meanwhile in Little Rock Comcast ABC and Disney are testing new interactive advertising model where episodes of Hannah Montana allow users to click on Hannah s boots or the new Chevy truck for product purchasing information. And during the commercial break Pizza Hut allows viewers to select order home delivery timed to arrive by the program s end. Viewers can pay for their pizza with a credit card cash to the delivery man or Comcast s newest service where the pizza appears as an itemized line on the bill with Comcast brokering the transaction for Pizza Hut for a small transactional fee .

In view of the foregoing scenario it should be appreciated that using various embodiments of the present invention to tie specific device Bill s mobile device Jim s GPS enabled phone Beth s Mary s PC peripheral capabilities location demographic details to Comcast s existing account profile and management systems and digital content delivery systems customers get new valuable services and Comcast address its business goals.

In any of the above use cases examples site appropriate menu selections may be made available to and displayed by a client device based on the delivery of custom menu information from a server to the client device via an augmented HTML file for example.

Embodiments of the present invention provide novel systems methods and devices for a contextual data platform. While detailed descriptions of one or more embodiments of the invention have been given above various alternatives modifications and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without varying from the spirit of the invention. Therefore the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention which is defined by the appended claims.

