---

title: Amber light-emitting diode comprising a group III-nitride nanowire active region
abstract: A temperature stable (color and efficiency) III-nitride based amber (585 nm) light-emitting diode is based on a novel hybrid nanowire-planar structure. The arrays of GaN nanowires enable radial InGaN/GaN quantum well LED structures with high indium content and high material quality. The high efficiency and temperature stable direct yellow and red phosphor-free emitters enable high efficiency white LEDs based on the RGYB color-mixing approach.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08785905&OS=08785905&RS=08785905
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08785905
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130117
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 588 446 filed Jan. 19 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference. This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 434 646 filed Mar. 29 2012 and SD11787.1 Method of Fabricating Vertically Aligned Group III V Nanowires filed of even date with this application both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to light emitting diodes and in particular to a temperature stable amber light emitting diode LED that employs a Group III Nitride nanowire active region.

Two common approaches currently exist for producing white lighting from LEDs phosphor conversion LEDs pc LEDs and discrete color mixing LEDs. In pc LEDs a portion of the light emitted from a blue LED chip is down converted by a phosphor and the longer wavelengths add to the blue to produce white light. In current schemes blue light 460 nm from an InGaN GaN based LED is typically used in combination with a single green yellow phosphor to produce white light. Although additional phosphors can be added to broaden the emitted spectrum and improve the Color Rendering Index CRI and reach warmer color temperatures it is at a cost to device efficacy. While pc LEDs currently represent the most popular approach for high intensity white LEDs they suffer from certain disadvantages most notably Stokes losses which are an unavoidable consequence of the energy down conversion process and result in decreases in LED efficiency. While improvements in phosphor efficiencies continue to be made significant Stokes losses are inevitable.

Thus discrete color mixing LEDs which incorporate direct emitting RGB or RYGB elements to create white light are likely to ultimately offer the best route for highest efficacy white LEDs. However while high efficiency LEDs exist in the blue wavelengths realization of high efficiency discrete color mixed RYGB LEDs is seriously hindered by a lack of efficient and temperature stable LEDs in the yellow red wavelengths and to a lesser extent in the green . This long wavelength gap is a consequence of the difficulties in forming high quality InGaN films with the higher indium concentrations needed to achieve the longer wavelengths lower bandgaps due to lattice mismatch strain effects with GaN. Red LEDs based on the AlInGaP materials system while efficient at longer red wavelengths are much less efficient at the shorter red 615 nm and amber 580 590 nm wavelengths needed for high efficiency and high CRI color mixed white LEDs due to limitations in that material system. See M. R. Krames et al. 3 160 2007 and J. M. Phillips et al. 1 307 2007 . The limitations of poor carrier confinement and carrier losses to indirect parts to the AlInGaP bandstructure are fundamental and most likely impossible to overcome. Moreover these limitations of red and yellow AlInGaP LEDs also lead to poor temperature stability and additional efficiency losses and color shifts at operating temperatures typical of high brightness LEDs e.g. 125 C. .

While currently competitive pc LEDs are unable to meet the targets of 81 EQE for green red and amber LEDs which will likely require more efficient direct emitting LEDs. Current direct emitting red and amber LEDs based on the AlInGaP materials system suffer from significant efficiency losses and color shifts at the higher operating temperatures typical of high brightness LEDs. Therefore a need remains for efficient red 610 620 nm or amber 580 595 nm LEDs which allow for optimization of spectral efficiency with high color quality over a range of Correlated Color Temperature CCT and which also exhibit color and efficiency stability with respect to operating temperature. The present invention is directed to high efficiency amber LEDs which exhibit color and efficiency stability with respect to operating temperature. Amber wavelengths can also provide a path forward for III nitride based red 615 nm LEDs based on this invention. This invention therefore enables high efficiency and temperature stable direct emitting LEDs in the amber and red wavelengths necessary for creating high efficiency white light emitters based on color mixed LEDs.

The current invention is directed to a light emitting diode comprising an n type base a core shell structure on the n type base comprising an array of vertically aligned n type nanowire cores each core surrounded by a radially grown Group III nitride multiple quantum well shell layer to provide a core shell nanowire a p type canopy layer grown on all facets of the core shell nanowires that is coalesced at the top thereby providing a continuous film that electrically connects the tops and sides of all the nanowires and a p contact to the p type canopy layer and an n contact to the n type base for applying a voltage across the core shell structure and extracting electroluminescent emitted light therefrom. Typically the nanowire cores can be less than 10 microns in height and less than 1 micron in diameter. The n type nanowire cores can comprise n type GaN the shell layer comprises an InGaN GaN multiple quantum well and the p type canopy layer comprises p type InGaN or p type GaN with an indium concentration of the InGaN layers of the multiple quantum well greater than 20 . The emitted light can have a wavelength of between about 550 nm and 620 nm. The n type base can be grown on the frontside of a substrate that is transparent to the emitted light such as sapphire. A reflective layer such as aluminum or Ti Al can be deposited on the backside of the substrate. Alternatively the n type base can be grown on another suitable substrate such as silicon GaN SiC or AlN. A spreading metal contact layer e.g. NiAu or Ag or a transparent conductive oxide layer e.g. indium tin oxide can be deposited on the p type canopy layer to overcome the resistance and poor current spreading of the p type layers. Alternatively an inverted structure can comprise an array of vertically aligned p type GaN nanowire cores surrounded by a Group III nitride MQW shell layer and an n type GaN canopy layer. Other Group III nitride and core shell structures can also be used.

The invention provides a temperature stable color and efficiency III nitride based amber light emitting diode based on a novel hybrid nanowire planar structure. The arrays of GaN nanowires enable radial InGaN GaN quantum well LED structures with high indium content and high material quality. Due to facile strain accommodation in nanowires much greater indium concentrations are achievable in InGaN material in comparison to planar films where high strain limits indium incorporation and degrades material quality and efficiencies in the green to red wavelengths hence the current green yellow red gap . Direct emitting phosphor free amber LEDs targeted wavelength 585 nm can have higher quantum efficiencies IQE 35A cm 2.24 EQE 35A cm 12 585 nm and significantly higher temperature stability relative thermal stability 100 C. vs. 25 C. of 60 than that of current state of the art amber LEDs based on the AlInGaP materials system. This enables high efficiency and temperature stable direct yellow orange and potentially red phosphor free emitters needed for high efficiency white LEDs based on the RGYB color mixing approach.

According to the present invention amber LEDs 585 nm with high efficiencies and high temperature stability based on the InGaN materials system can be fabricated by employing a novel three dimensional hybrid core shell device structure. In this structure the active emitter MQW regions are grown on a high quality nanowire template while a top coalesced p type In GaN layer enables standard planar device processing. The nanowire architecture allows for growth of higher indium content InGaN layers than is possible in standard planar InGaN GaN film heterostructures due to the unique ability of nanowires to accommodate lattice mismatch strain owing to their large free surface area and nanoscale dimensions. See T. Kuykendall et al. 6 951 2007 and Q. M. Li and G. T. Wang 97 181107 2010 . While indium concentrations greater than 20 in planar InGaN on GaN material lead to a significant degradation in the material and hence optical quality InGaN layers on nanowires have been demonstrated with indium concentrations of 40 and good material quality. See Q. M. Li and G. T. Wang 97 181107 2010 . The high quality high indium content InGaN layers enable long wavelength yellow to red direct emitting LEDs based on the InGaN materials system with greater thermal stability than LEDs based on the AlInGaP system which suffers from significant efficiency losses and color shifts at the higher operating temperatures typical of high brightness LEDs. See J. M. Phillips et al. 1 307 2007 . For example direct emitting phosphor free amber LEDs targeted wavelength 585 nm can have higher quantum efficiencies IQE 35A cm 24 EQE 35A cm 2 585 nm and significantly higher temperature stability relative thermal stability at 100 C. vs. 25 C. of 60 than that of current state of the art amber LEDs based on the AlInGaP materials system. Being nonpolar devices issues such as wavelength shifting as a function of current density can also be alleviated and droop can be mitigated through the use of thicker quantum wells on the nonpolar nanowire facets. See J. S. Speck and S. F. Chichibu 34 304 2009 . The InGaN GaN MQWs can be grown on nonpolar crystal planes of the nanowire sidewalls eliminating the polarization induced fields present in planar c plane LEDs which can reduce radiative recombination efficiencies and cause a blue shift in the emission wavelengths as the drive current is increased. The extraction efficiencies of the device can also be naturally high due to the embedded air void structure and faceted top surface. See C. Y. Cho et al. 19 A943 2011 W. C. Lai et al. 97 2010 and K. Hyung Gu et al. 95 221110 2009 . The 3D vertical integration of the MQW regions also enables a potential increase in the effective device densities which can increase the brightness per unit of chip area benefitting cost and package integration issues.

A schematic illustration of the hybrid core shell structure of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is shown in . In this exemplary LED device the InGaN GaN MQW shell layer is grown radially around a semi ordered array of vertically aligned n type GaN nanowires connected to a base n type GaN layer . Subsequently a p type In GaN layer is grown to form a continuous coalesced layer connecting the nanowires and completing the LED structure. A key strength of the resulting hybrid nanowire film architecture is that it allows for standard planar device processing to the n type and p type layers solving a key and common problem with nanowire based devices while simultaneously enabling the advantages provided by the nanowire based active regions such as high In content InGaN layers and nonpolar orientation growth. All growths can be done using metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD which is the standard technique used in the LED industry thus facilitating commercial adoption. The details of an exemplary device fabrication and structure are described below.

The hybrid nanowire film structure shown in uses the controlled fabrication of an array of GaN nanowires with uniform heights and adequate n type conductivity within the small dimensions of the nanowire followed by the radial sidewall growth of the InGaN GaN MQWs and subsequent lateral growth of a p In GaN layer which coalesces and connects all the nanowires at the top of the structure to create a continuous film canopy for the p type contact. This requires control of the growth in all three dimensions along different crystallographic directions for layers of different composition and grown at different temperatures which are both factors that influence facet dependent growth rates. A periodic spacing of the nanowires e.g. a hexagonal or rectangular lattice is also preferred in order to assure good LED growth uniformity and current injection uniformity both of which would be detrimentally impacted by randomly assembled nanowires. The process is scalable to wafer sized areas to enable a manufacturable product.

The exemplary n type GaN nanowire template can be created using the top down fabrication process which begins with growing a 4 5 m thick GaN template layer on c plane sapphire by MOCVD in a Veeco D125 short jar reactor using a two step approach and a delayed recovery technique. See S. Nakamura 30 L1705 1991 and D. D. Koleske et al. 81 1940 2002 . The GaN templates have typical threading dislocation densities TDDs in the mid 10cmrange. Next the template is covered with a masking layer consisting of a hexagonally close packed monolayer of self assembled monodisperse colloidal silica spheres formed in a Langmuir Blodgett trough and then is subject to a Cl based inductively coupled plasma ICP etch forming the periodic array of vertically aligned nanowires. See Q. Li et al. 94 231105 2009 . The resulting nanowires are tapered and have an average pitch determined by the diameter of the colloidal silica spheres typically 0.3 1.0 m and are uniform in height. The colloidal silica hexagonal closed pack mask can produce arrays of nanowires with long range order over areas that are typically several tens of microns. Defects are typically limited to slips in the hexagonal ordering. Such slip defects are not a problem because spacing between nanowires across the slip is not significantly different from the ordered areas and the p In GaN layer thickness is chosen so that such areas can still be adequately covered. The nanowires are then subject to an anisotropic KOH based AZ400K photoresist developer wet etch that removes surface damage from the ICP etch and forms hexagonally faceted nanowires with straight sidewalls and controllable diameters as shown in and . Due to the fast wet etch rate along the 10 and equivalent directions and negligible etch rate at the Ga polar 0001 top facet the resultant nanowire is hexagonally faceted with straight 10 10 m plane sidewalls and a 0001 c plane nanowire top facet. This top down fabrication technique of the GaN nanowires has several advantages including all the nanowires have the same height subsequent growth is on well defined crystal facets and dry etch damage is removed. For a typical starting film with TDD 5 10cmonly 6 percent of the nanowires contain threading dislocations when etched to around 150 nm in diameter providing a high quality template for nanowire LED growth.

Following the top down fabrication of the ordered n type GaN nanowire array the rest of the LED structure is grown radially around the nanowires. A typical structure includes the growth of a shell layer comprising an n type GaN layer and InGaN underlayer a set of InGaN GaN MQW active layers and an undoped GaN layer and or AlGaN electron blocking layer. During the growth of these layers the formation of new semipolar top facets 10 11 occurs at the nanowire tip and base resulting in the extinction of the top c plane facet and creating a pointed apex to the nanowires. Similarly a InGaN GaN layer will grow on the base n GaN unetched template layer during the growth of the shell layer on the vertically aligned n GaN nanowires . The hybrid nanowire film LED structure is completed by growth of a p type InGaN or p type GaN canopy layer that forms a coalesced film that connects the tops of all the nanowires which importantly allows for standard planar device processing.

The nanowire LED structure was further elucidated by cross sectional scanning transmission electron microscopy STEM and energy dispersive x ray spectroscopy EDS . The STEM sample was prepared by focused ion beam milling. The cross sectional STEM image in shows that following LED growth the nanowires have a diameter of 400 nm half way up the height of the nanowire leaving 100 nm spaces between nanowires. The MQW growth on the m plane sidewalls is faster than on the semipolar planes resulting in thinner InGaN GaN quantum wells on the semipolar facts compared to the m plane surfaces 1.5 nm 1.5 nm compared to 2.5 9 nm as seen in the close up image in . EDS analysis revealed that the indium incorporation is different on the two facets with x 0.33 on the m plane compared to x 0.22 on the semipolar facets. The high indium concentration of the InGaN wells on the m facets without evidence of segregation is significant. Tellingly a planar GaN control sample grown along with the nanowire templated sample resulted in an optically black color compared to the clear color of the nanowire sample indicating metallic indium incorporated at some step during growth. This result suggests that the nanowire structure is indeed able to incorporate more indium than planar structures and remain stable due to strain accommodation. Importantly the p InGaN layer is also seen to extend down along the nanowire sidewalls 30 40 nm thickness allowing for the injection of holes into the nanowire m plane sidewall MQW layers.

Electroluminescence from this hybrid nanowire LED structure was demonstrated. Ni Au 150A 150A contacts were made to the p InGaN canopy layer. For the n type contact the periphery of the device was ICP etched to the n type layer and an Al contact was made to the bottom n type layer. The LED device size was 250 m 250 m and light was collected through the top p InGaN surface. shows an optical image of the yellow electroluminescence from the nanowire LED. shows the spectral response of the LED under electrical injection. shows the I V characteristics of the nanowire LED. Significantly it is seen that under electrical injection this LED emits at the longer yellow red wavelengths. Interestingly two primary emission peaks are observed one which blue shifts from 600 nm at 15 mA to 565 nm at 30 mA and another at 615 nm which is stable with respect to injection current. Based on structural and compositional analysis the current stable nm emission is believed to originate from the m plane MQWs which show higher indium concentration x 0.33 vs. the semipolar facets x 0.22 the lack of wavelength shift with increasing injection current is also consistent with the nonpolar m plane orientation of the MQWs. The other peak that blue shifts with injection current likely originates from the semipolar MQWs. The formation of the semipolar planes can be eliminated during growth. Additionally emission from indium rich InGaN clusters near the nanowire tip cannot be ruled out.

The present invention has been described as an amber light emitting diode comprising a Group III Nitride nanowire active region. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

