---

title: Enhancing karaoke systems utilizing audience sentiment feedback and audio watermarking
abstract: A digital audio/video (A/V) content can be selected from a data store within a computing device. The content can include a vocal free recording and a subsequently recorded vocal track generated by a user. A digital marker can be embedded into the audio signal of the content. The marker can be associated with a time index of the content and a unique user identity associated with a device. A different A/V content can be identified and can be linked to the marker. The different A/V content can be at a symbol, a shape, an audio, a video, and/or a text content. In one embodiment, facial gesture and/or motion gesture feedback of a consumer can be captured during playback of the digital A/V content. In the embodiment, analysis of the feedback can be utilized to generate recommendations for improvement of A/V digital content and/or status updates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09286943&OS=09286943&RS=09286943
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09286943
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130823
---
The present invention relates to the field of social media and more particularly to enhancing karaoke systems utilizing audience sentiment feedback and audio watermarking.

Karaoke is a world wide phenomenon which is often performed as a social entertainment where amateur singers sing along to selected music. Frequently singers can receive immediate feedback from spectators who evaluate the singer s performance of a karaoke song. Unfortunately the phenomenon has not evolved with today s social networking. Although social networking is a phenomenon that is currently driving interactions between people social iterations e.g. social karaoke Web sites of karaoke lack the real time interaction and feedback often associated with traditional karaoke. For example a typical social interaction between individuals using a social karaoke application permits chats to include images and sometimes Web camera interactions.

However there is no integration of multiple user audio text and video social interactions. Furthermore the available social media feedback to the karaoke content does not enable remote users to gather accurate listener responses to their singing but relies on the manual social interactions. Finally there is no karaoke system which leverages social feedback from listeners to enhance the social karaoke experience.

One aspect of the present invention can include a system an apparatus a computer program product and a method for enhancing karaoke systems utilizing audience sentiment feedback and audio watermarking. Digital audio video A V content can be selected from a data store within a computing device. The content can include a vocal free recording and a subsequently recorded vocal track generated by a user. A digital marker can be embedded into the audio signal of the A V content. The marker can be associated with a time index of the A V content and a unique user identity associated with a computing device. A different A V content not previously associated with the digital A V content can be identified and can be linked to the marker. The different A V content can be at a symbol a shape an audio content a video content and or a text content.

Another aspect of the present invention can include a method an apparatus a computer program product and a system for enhancing karaoke systems utilizing audience sentiment feedback and audio watermarking. A personalization engine can be configured to embed a digital marker into the audio signal of a digital A V content. The marker can be associated with a time index of the digital A V content and a unique user identity associated with a computing device. A data store can be able to persist at least one of the digital A V content a different A V content and an audio watermark mapping.

Yet another aspect of the present invention can include a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having embedded computer usable program code. The computer usable program code can be configured to select a karaoke content within a computing device session. The karaoke content can be a user generated content. The content can be a form of interactive entertainment in which an amateur singer sings along with a previously recorded music. A watermark can be embedded into the karaoke content. The watermark is associated with a singer or a listener. The watermark can be tied to an embedded content and or an action. The watermark can be associated with a time index of the karaoke content.

The present disclosure is a solution for enhancing karaoke systems utilizing audience sentiment feedback and audio watermarking. In the solution an audio watermark can be utilized to embed user specified content within a karaoke content. The audio watermark can be associated with a time index e.g. timestamp of the karaoke content. In one instance feedback from audience e.g. listeners of a karaoke content can be automatically gathered. In one configuration of the instance facial recognition feedback can be obtained in real time and conveyed to an author of the karaoke content. For example as a singer sings a karaoke song real time feedback from listeners can be conveyed to the singer. In one embodiment feedback can be analyzed to produce one or more real time recommendations. In the embodiment recommendations can be conveyed to a karaoke content creator in real time to improve content creation.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As used herein karaoke content can be an audio video content associated with a musical song. A song can be a composition for a voice or voices to be performed by singing lyrics. The content can include lyrics which can be visually presented within a display and or interface. The content can lack a vocal recording e.g. vocal track and can be an instrumental audio video content. For example content can be an instrumental rendering of a popular song on a social karaoke Web site. Content can be associated with one or more metadata attributes. Attributes can include but is not limited to a song name an album name an artist name a file reference a genre a comment a year a size a tempo a pitch a last sung timestamp a rating a times sung timestamp a format a song identifier a vocal channel a graphic channel a start time a duration a track number and the like. Content format can conform to a MPEG Part 3 MP3 format MPEG 4 format an Advanced Audio Coding AAC format a VORIBS format and the like.

It should be appreciated that the disclosure leverages audio watermarking e.g. small marker code embedded into the karaoke content to perform the functionality described. That is because audio watermarking does not require special software e.g. unlike tagging using audio fingerprinting the disclosure is not dependent on user participation to access content linked to the watermark. An audio watermark can include but is not limited to a noise a tone a speech and the like. For example watermark can be a user audio speech segment such as This is me singing .

In one embodiment the audio watermark e.g. watermark can associate a marker in a content stream at a particular timestamp. In the embodiment the marker can be associated with unique symbols shapes actions audio video and the like which can be revealed when the timestamp is reached e.g. during playback .

In one embodiment the watermark can enable a security mechanism which can permit deny modification of karaoke content. That is the creator can change content that appended using the watermark but can prevent consumers from changing the appended content. In one instance the watermark can be utilized to permit selected users to view and or change content .

In scenario a user can interact with a device to create and or modify a karaoke content . For example a singer can sing into a microphone of a mobile phone to sing a karaoke song. During interaction with content user can watermark content utilizing a personal watermark . Personal watermark can be a marker embedded in an audio signal e.g. karaoke content which can identify ownership of the audio. For example watermark can be a word which can be spoken e.g. or sung to watermark a content . It should be appreciated that the disclosure permits a personal watermark associated with a user to enable the addition of content at a later date or enable a user to augment the content with social media e.g. images comments videos .

In one embodiment watermark can be utilized to embed additional content e.g. embedded content within karaoke content . In the embodiment additional content can be automatically and or manually associated with the watermark . It should be understood that current solutions do not provide for embedding of all types of social media content within the karaoke content e.g. audio video stream using watermarking. It should be appreciated that system can facilitate the functionality described in the embodiment.

Content can be conveyed to karaoke system which can utilize watermarked content to convey personalized content to a user . In one instance the content can be analyzed to determine relevant metadata which can be utilized to perform personalized content . In the instance metadata can be matched against user settings to deliver a personalized user experience. For example when a content is a rock song with a heavy drum line is determined the system can match the song preference of a user e.g. listens to only heavy rock songs to metadata associated with the song e.g. genre beats per minute style . In another instance content associated with watermark can be utilized to deliver a personalized user experience. In the instance embedded content can be analyzed to determine when the content matches a preference of a user . It should be appreciated that the disclosure is not limited to exact matches and can utilize traditional and or proprietary content personalization mechanism to enable the functionality described herein.

User can utilize a device to interact with content and or interface . For example a listener can wear a headset connected to a laptop computer to view a social karaoke Web site interface e.g. interface and rate a content or content . Interface can include but is not limited to content feedback mechanism content embedding functionality and the like. In one instance user can rate portions of content during content playback. For example a listener e.g. user can rate a stanza of a karaoke song sung by a singer e.g. user utilizing a thumbs up or thumbs down interface button. In another instance feedback from user can be automatically obtained during content playback. For example a listener e.g. user speaking a comment about a note the singer e.g. user sung can be automatically captured by a microphone on laptop . That is feedback can be automatically and or manually obtained and linked with a time index e.g. during content playback. It should be appreciated that feedback automatically and or manually obtained and can be linked with a time index during content creation.

In one embodiment biometric feedback can be automatically obtained from a user interacting with the playback of content and or content . In the embodiment sensors within devices can be utilized to collect biometric feedback during content playback. For example an accelerometer within headset can be utilized to determine if a listener is moving their head in time with music as playback occurs which can indicate a positive sentiment. In one embodiment mapping of biometric feedback to audience sentiment can be performed via a sentiment mapping .

In one embodiment mapping can permit the linking of a behavioral biometric feedback with a sentiment. For example when a user frowns during playback the sentiment can be determined as negative. It should be appreciated that mapping can be arbitrarily complex. In one instance mapping can be utilized to distinguish between varying degrees of audience sentiment based on facial gestures. In one embodiment values e.g. mapping elements within mapping can include numerical values fuzzy logic values alphanumeric values and the like. For example sentiment can be a percentage value e.g. 90 80 based on a gradient of feedback values e.g. singing along humming .

It should be appreciated that biometric feedback can be collected utilizing traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. In one instance analysis of biometric feedback can be performed utilizing physiological biometric analysis and or behavioral biometric analysis. It should be appreciated that biometric feedback can be utilized to perform automated biometric authentication.

In one embodiment user can embed content within content during playback. In the embodiment a content embedding functionality can be presented in interface enabling content to be embedded within watermarked content at a specific time index. For example while listening to a karaoke song performed by a singer a listener can embed a content via a Uniform Resource Locator URL link using dialog .

In one instance playback of the karaoke content can present embedded content to be presented simultaneously. For example comments can be presented alongside a song e.g. karaoke when a consumer is listening to the song.

In one instance feedback can be conveyed to system in real time during content creation and or playback. In the instance feedback can be analyzed utilizing traditional and or proprietary mechanism. In one embodiment real time analytics can be conveyed to user . In the embodiment analytics can be presented within device . For example analytics can be presented within an interface while content creation is occurring. In one instance analytics can be presented within utilizing one or more visual graphics. In the instance analytics can include a graph a chart a visualization and the like. For example an interface can present an graph of an overall audience sentiment of a content and a text block can present a detailed analytics of a content by time e.g. at one minute twenty seconds of playback .

In one embodiment an interface can present analytics indicating audience sentiment after content creation. In the embodiment a notification can provide audience sentiment obtained from biometric sources e.g. facial recognition spoken comments etc . For example feedback from facial responses can be presented within a notification to indicate a positive user sentiment e.g. 88 of listeners like your singing .

In one embodiment facial gestures or movement e.g. feedback can be collected in real time during a content creation and or playback. In the embodiment the feedback can be collated and displayed to the user as a dashboard of audience emotion.

In one instance interface can present one or more recommendations for improving content . In the instance recommendations can include suggested social media updates e.g. to external social media sites song preferences friend preferences and the like. For instance a recommendation to convey a TWITTER message can include multiple short messages e.g. less than 140 characters from which the user can select.

In one embodiment a notification can include a social update which can include messages associated with a social networking Web site. In the embodiment the notification can be conveyed to INSTAGRAM FACEBOOK GOOGLE PLUS and the like. For example an INSTAGRAM update would present a split screen of sets of pictures e.g. the listeners reaction singer s pictures .

In scenario a watermarked content can include a personal watermark which can enable embedded content to be linked during content creation and or playback. Watermark can include but is not limited to a reference identifier a user identifier a time index identifier a content identifier and the like. For example a watermark can be associated with a singer and a singer s favorite quote which can be embedded as content . Content can include but is not limited to an audio content a video content a text content and the like. It should be appreciated that content can be referenced via a unique identifier e.g. a URI . Feedback can include audio feedback video feedback facial gesture feedback motion gesture feedback and the like. In one instance physical movements associated with a listener can be determined and appropriate feedback can be established. For example if a listener dances to a song being sung by singer the feedback can be established to be positive.

In one embodiment system can include traditional and or proprietary audio mixing functionality. The audio mixing functionality can mix an audio watermark with a content in real time or near real time.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that the disclosure is not limited to associating feedback content with time indices and can associate feedback content with time intervals. Watermark properties can include but is not limited to signal processing robustness perceptual quality bit rate security computational complexity and the like. It should be appreciated that the disclosure can utilize spectrum audio watermarking SSW amplitude modification replica method dither watermarking self marking method and the like.

In step a karaoke session can be established between a karaoke content creator and a consumer. In step a karaoke content can be selected by the consumer. Content selection can be manually and or automatically selected. In step a personal audio watermark can be added to karaoke content by creator. In one instance the watermark can be manually added using one or more user interfaces. For example a user preferences settings screen can permit a user to select a previously established audio watermark as a personal watermark to be added to a karaoke content. In step if the watermark content is owned by the creator the method can continue to step else proceed to step . In step the watermarking of the content can be denied. In step the content can be watermarked and can be augmented with embedded content. In one embodiment permission settings can be manually and or automatically associated with the content. That is the watermarked content can be selectively modified by consumers based on permission settings. In step the watermarked content can be provided to consumers. In step biometric and non biometric feedback from consumers can be collected. In step feedback from the consumers can be analyzed.

In step consumer settings can be updated based on the analysis. In step feedback can be conveyed to the creator. In one instance a recommendation for improving content creation can be conveyed. In the instance recommendation can include consumer feedback e.g. comments heuristically generated recommendations and the like. For example a recommendation can suggest a content create can increase the pitch of their voice during a portion of the content to improve consumer sentiment.

In step a watermark is added by the consumer and additional content can be embedded if permission settings allow modification. In step a status update option based on biometric or non biometric feedback can be received by the consumer. In step an update option can be optionally selected by the consumer. In step the watermarked content can be optionally conveyed to a social media site by the consumer. In step if the session is terminated the method can continue to step else return to step . In step the method can end.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard.

Social media server can be a hardware software entity for executing personalization engine . Server functionality can include but is not limited to content sharing social networking functionality encryption and the like. Server can include but is not limited to personalization engine watermarked content feedback analytics karaoke content embedded content personalized content data store and the like. In one embodiment server can be a Web server of a social karaoke Web site.

Personalization engine can be a hardware software element for permitting watermarking of karaoke content. Engine functionality can include but is not limited to session management access control functionality and the like. Engine can include but is not limited to personalizer feedback component analyzer settings and the like. In one embodiment engine can perform one or more audio watermarking operations. Operations can include digital signal processing such as Linear filtering sample re quantization lossy compression and the like. In one instance engine can be a functionality of a browser plug in. In another instance engine can be a functionality of a Web based service.

Personalizer can be a hardware software entity for customizing personalized content based on feedback . Personalizer functionality can include but is not limited to karaoke content aggregation content embedding content history presentation and the like. In one instance personalizer can be utilized to present personalized content within an interface . In one embodiment personalizer can be utilized to establish access control associated with a watermarked content . In one instance personalizer can permit the dynamic and automatic creation of personalized listening experience from optimum acoustic settings for an individual as determined by real time analytics. In the instance the structure of a person s ear can be analyzed to determine optimum acoustic settings for the listener. Acoustic settings can include but is not limited to a volume setting a content selection a pitch setting and the like.

Feedback component can be a hardware software element for enabling collection of feedback and or biometrics . Component functionality can include but is not limited to feedback aggregation input component registration and the like. In one embodiment component can provide notifications during content creation and or playback. In the embodiment notifications can include but is not limited to feedback analytics personalized content embedded content and the like.

Analyzer can be a hardware software entity for performing analytics on biometrics and or feedback . Analyzer functionality can include but is not limited to lexical analyzer speech analyzer video content analytics and the like. In one instance analyzer can be utilized to process biometrics obtained from device . In one embodiment analyzer can be utilized to obtain optimum content playback settings. In the embodiment the analyzer can analyze acoustics proximate to the computing device to determine an optimum acoustic setting.

Settings can be one or more rules for establishing the behavior of system server and or engine . Settings can include but is not limited to personalizer options feedback component settings analyzer options and the like. In one embodiment settings can be manually and or automatically established. In one instance settings can be heuristically determined from historic settings. In one embodiment settings can be persisted within data store computing device and the like.

Watermarked content can be a media content associated with an audio watermark. Content can include but is not limited to embedded content metadata and the like. In one instance content can be associated with one or more keyword tags. Content can be associated with a visibility attribute a modification attribute an expiration attribute a timestamp attribute and the like.

Feedback can be one or more data sets associated with content playback. Feedback can conform to one or more traditional and or proprietary formats. In one instance feedback can be a text file format an Extensible Markup Language file format a Waveform Audio WAV file format a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG file format and the like. In one embodiment feedback can be associated with compression.

Analytics can be one or more data sets associated with feedback . Analytics can conform to one or more traditional and or proprietary formats. In one instance analytics can be a text file format an Extensible Markup Language file format Hypertext Markup Language HTML file format and the like.

Data store can be a hardware software component able to persist mapping settings content feedback analytics personalized content an audio watermark not shown and the like. Data store can be a Storage Area Network SAN Network Attached Storage NAS and the like. Data store can conform to a relational database management system RDBMS object oriented database management system OODBMS and the like. Data store can be communicatively linked to server in one or more traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. In one instance data store can be a component of Structured Query Language SQL complaint database.

Watermark mapping can be one or more data sets for associating a watermark with a content . Mapping can include but is not limited to a time index a watermark identifier a content identifier and the like. For example mapping can associated a personal audio watermark A with a content A at time index A. Mapping can be manually and or automatically established. In one instance mapping can be persisted within data store .

Computing device can be a software hardware element for presenting personalized content and or creation of content . Device can include but is not limited to input components e.g. microphone camera keyboard headset output components e.g. display interface and the like. Device can include one or more biometric sensors. Sensors can include but is not limited to an accelerometer a thermal sensor a heart rate sensor and the like. Device hardware can include but is not limited to a processor a non volatile memory a volatile memory a bus and the like. Computing device can include but is not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a mobile phone a mobile computing device a portable media player a Personal Digital Assistant PDA and the like.

Interface can be a user interactive component permitting interaction and or presentation of content personalized content and the like. Interface can be present within the context of a Web browser application a karaoke software program and the like. Interface capabilities can include a graphical user interface GUI voice user interface VUI mixed mode interface and the like. In one instance interface can be communicatively linked to computing device . In one embodiment interface can permit the management of an audio watermark. In the embodiment interface can allow audio watermark creation modification deletion and the like.

Network can be an electrical and or computer network connecting one or more system components. Network can include but is not limited to twisted pair cabling optical fiber coaxial cable and the like. Network can include any combination of wired and or wireless components. Network topologies can include but is not limited to bus star mesh and the like. Network types can include but is not limited to Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN Virtual Private Network VPN and the like.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that one or more components within system can be optional components permitting that the disclosure functionality be retained. It should be understood that engine components can be optional components providing that engine functionality is maintained. It should be appreciated that one or more components of engine can be combined and or separated based on functionality usage and the like. System can conform to a Service Oriented Architecture SOA Representational State Transfer REST architecture and the like.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

