---

title: Caching model for in-vehicle-infotainment systems with unreliable data connections
abstract: Systems and methods for providing a caching model for in-vehicle infotainment systems with unreliable data connections are disclosed. A particular embodiment includes: receiving a service request from a client service consumer; forwarding the service request to both a host service as a remote request via a network access and to a local service as a local request without a network access; receiving a host service result from the host service via a network access in response to the service request; receiving a local service result from the local service without a network access in response to the service request; merging the host service result and the local service result to produce a composite result; and delivering the composite result to the client service consumer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398116&OS=09398116&RS=09398116
owner: CloudCar, Inc.
number: 09398116
owner_city: East Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131222
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the disclosure herein and to the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright 2012 2013 CloudCar Inc. All Rights Reserved.

This patent document pertains generally to tools systems apparatuses methodologies computer program products networks etc. for allowing electronic devices to share information with each other and more particularly but not by way of limitation to a caching model for in vehicle infotainment systems with unreliable data connections.

A variety of existing manufacturers provide connected electronic in vehicle infotainment IVI systems personal navigation devices PND and equivalent applications running on smart phones. However with connected and PND systems today services fail to operate when there is no data or network connection or no reliable data or network connection available as is often the case when driving a vehicle. IVI and PND devices today function under the assumption that a data or network connection is either always required or always unavailable depending on the device design. There are no devices that work well in a loosely connected environment or an unreliable connection environment where data connections come and go.

For example Google Map cannot provide search or guidance information when there is no data connection although it can display a map by caching information related to a certain geographical area. Apple Siri cannot recognize navigation voice commands without a steady data connection. Pandora music stops or stutters when data or network connection is unreliable.

Some PND devices such as devices from Garmin and TomTom do not use a data connection during operation. These types of devices are not considered connected devices and cannot offer the most up to date information and entertainment as a connected device does. Instead these devices rely on local storage and processing to provide static services for navigation and music which can result in outdated information including incorrect maps and guidance.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

The various embodiments described herein relate to the field of connected electronic in vehicle infotainment systems IVI personal navigation devices PND and equivalent applications running on smart phones. These devices use a connection to the Internet to provide dynamically updated features such as maps navigation guidance traffic weather news productivity and entertainment information in text graphic audio or video formats. These systems often include speech recognition functions for voice commands and speech audio feedback.

As described in various example embodiments systems and methods for providing a caching model for in vehicle infotainment systems with unreliable data connections are described herein. In one example embodiment the in vehicle infotainment caching model can be used in or by the modular in vehicle infotainment architecture illustrated in and described below. However it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the in vehicle infotainment caching model described and claimed herein can be implemented configured and used in a variety of other applications and systems.

Particular example embodiments relate to a new in vehicle infotainment hardware architecture here traditional automotive baseband elements such as displays radio tuners cameras microphones Controller Area Network CAN busses general input output signals such as steering wheel switches and buttons user facing Universal Serial Bus USB ports are separated from an upgradeable multimedia module included in the in vehicle infotainment caching architecture as described herein. In one example embodiment the upgradeable multimedia module runs an Android Compatibility Definition Document CDD compliant Android operating system. The multimedia module is physically separate and has a single detachable connector which allows the multimedia module to be easily exchanged as media technologies change or improve. The multimedia module can connect to the vehicle with a detachable connector with a specially adapted electro mechanical design. Standardizing an upgradeable multimedia module across automotive manufacturers would allow reduced cost and increased compatibility for future technology allowing more desirable product and service offerings and revenue opportunities as technology progresses.

Referring now to example embodiments relate to a multimedia module facilitating the communication of data signals and information and the activation of procedures and or services between mobile devices network resources accessible via network network resources accessible via network and the antennas and vehicle subsystems of as conventional vehicle . Embodiments disclosed herein generally provide the multimedia module to enable the communication and control of data signals information and services between in vehicle infotainment IVI subsystems of a vehicle electronic control units ECUs of a vehicle network based mobile devices such as mobile phones or mobile computing platforms and network resources accessible via the network or network such as server computers websites and the like. These network resources are accessible via a conventional wide area network such as the cellular telephone networks and or the Internet and or via a conventional wide area network such as the cellular telephone networks satellite networks AM FM radio networks pager networks UHF networks other broadcast networks gaming networks WiFi networks peer to peer networks Voice Over IP VoIP networks etc. and or the Internet. In most cases the cellular telephone networks tend to be more expensive to use than the broadcast networks. For example it is less expensive and faster to stream media content e.g. music or video selections to a device via the broadcast networks as compared with the cellular networks. On the other hand it is typically more efficient to use the cellular networks for phone calls. However even among different cellular network providers there are often promotional rates or discounts offered by a particular cellular network provider at a particular point in time that are not offered by other cellular network providers. Thus the embodiments described herein enable a user subscriber to configure the system for automatic selection of the preferred network or mode of delivery of content and or services to vehicle connected mobile devices.

Generally depicts the communication of data signals between from to the vehicle subsystems between the multimedia module and hew en the mobile device s . Some of the data signals can be produced at the vehicle subsystems . The format of the data signals can be converted at the multimedia module and the data signals can be further processed at the mobile device . For example data signals communicated from the IVI subsystems or the ECUs of the vehicle e.g. vehicle subsystems to the mobile devices or network resources may include information about the state of one or more of the components of the vehicle . In particular the data signals which can be communicated from the IVI subsystems or the ECUs to the CAN bus of the vehicle can be received and processed by the multimedia module .

The data signals communicated between the vehicle subsystems and the multimedia module may be formatted in a vehicle specific format i.e. specific to a vehicle make and model. The vehicle specific format generally refers to the format of the data signals for or from the vehicle subsystems . That is the vehicle subsystems may be manufactured by a first manufacturer that may have a vehicle specific format for all its vehicle subsystems. Alternatively the first manufacturer may have a vehicle specific format for different models years option packages etc. Generally the vehicle specific formats of different vehicle subsystems may not be the same. Thus a vehicle manufactured by the first manufacturer typically has a different vehicle specific format than a second vehicle manufactured by a second manufacturer. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the data signals may be differential signals.

The multimedia module couples with a detachable vehicle subsystem connector as part of a vehicle subsystem connection associated with the vehicle subsystems . For example as shown in the vehicle subsystems may have a single detachable connector that is adapted to connect with and detach from a connector of the multimedia module . Generally the interface between the vehicle subsystems and the multimedia module includes a physical connection as well as an electrical interface such that the data signals communicated from to the vehicle subsystems may be further communicated to from the multimedia module .

As shown in the vehicle subsystem connection and vehicle interface between the multimedia module and the vehicle subsystems can be implemented in a variety of ways. For example one embodiment can use a modified DisplayPort interface. DisplayPort is a digital display interface developed by the Video Electronics Standards Association VESA . The interface is primarily used to connect a video source to a display device such as a computer monitor though the DisplayPort interface can also he used to transmit audio USB and other forms of data. As such a modified DisplayPort interface can be used to manage the in vehicle infotainment IVI subsystems of a vehicle from the multimedia module . A DisplayPort module is provided in the multimedia module to support the modified DisplayPort interface. In another embodiment the interface between the multimedia module and the vehicle subsystems can be implemented using a USB interface and associated connector. USB is an industry standard developed in the mid 1990 s that defines the cables connectors and communications protocols typically used for connection communication and power supply between electronic devices. In another embodiment the interface between the multimedia module and the vehicle subsystems can be implemented using a CarLink interface. Some conventional CarLink interfaces are used to support remotely startable vehicles. In any of these various embodiments the vehicle interface enables the multimedia module to access the standard CAN bus in the vehicle . As a result the multimedia module can communicate with IVI subsystems or ECUs e.g. vehicle subsystems in the vehicle .

As shown in the multimedia module also couples with one or more mobile devices as part of a mobile device interface supporting a user interface on the mobile device . In various embodiments the mobile device interlace and user interface between the multimedia module and the mobile devices can be implemented in a variety of ways. For example in one embodiment the mobile device interface and user interface between the multimedia module and the mobile devices can be implemented using a USB interface and associated connector. In a preferred configuration a USB On The Go USB OTG interface can be used to enable the mobile devices to act as a host device USB OTG is a standard specification that allows USB devices such as mobile computing devices or mobile phones to act as a host allowing other USB devices like the multimedia module to be attached to and communicate with them.

In another embodiment the mobile device interface and user interface between the multimedia module and the mobile devices can be implemented using a wireless protocol such as WiFi or Bluetooth BT . WiFi is a popular wireless technology allowing an electronic device to exchange data wirelessly over a computer network. Bluetooth is a wireless technology standard for exchanging data over short distances. As shown in a BT WiFi WAN module is provided in the multimedia module to support the WiFi or Bluetooth interface.

Referring still to the multimedia module can also communicate with network resources via the network and antennas . The network represents a conventional cellular telephone network satellite network AM FM radio network pager network. UHF network or other wireless broadcast network gaming network WiFi network peer to peer network Voice Over IP VoIP network etc. that can be received in vehicle via one or more antennas . Antennas can serve to connect the multimedia module with a data or content network via cellular satellite radio or other conventional signal reception mechanism. Such cellular data or content networks are currently available e.g. Verizon AT T T Mobile etc. . Such satellite based data or content networks are also currently available e.g. SiriusXM HughesNet etc. . The conventional broadcast networks such as AM FM radio networks pager networks UHF networks gaming networks WiFi networks peer to peer networks Voice Over IP VoIP networks and the like are also well known. Thus as described in more detail below the tuner module of multimedia module can include a radio receiver a cellular receiver and or a satellite based data or content modem to decode data and or content signals received via radio signals cellular signals and or satellite. As a result the multimedia module can obtain a data content connection with network resources via network which is a connection independent of the data content connection with network resources via network .

Referring now to the components of the multimedia module of an example embodiment are illustrated. As described above the multimedia module can include a DisplayPort module to support a modified DisplayPort interface between the vehicle subsystems and the multimedia module . Similarly the multimedia module can include a BT WiFi WAN module to support a WiFi or Bluetooth interface between the mobile devices and the multimedia module . The multimedia module can also include a central processing unit CPU with a conventional random access memory RAM . The CPU can be implemented with any available microprocessor or application specific integrated circuit ASIC . The multimedia module can also include a graphics processing unit GPU to support image processing of images transferred to the vehicle display and or other IVI subsystems or images received from the camera and or other IVI subsystems. The GPU can be implemented with any conventional graphics processing unit. The multimedia module can also include a module operating system which can be layered upon and executed by the CPU and GPU processing platform. In one example embodiment the module operating system can be implemented using an Android Compatibility Definition Document CDD compliant Android operating system. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that alternative operating systems and processing platforms can be used to implement the multimedia module .

Referring still to the multimedia module can convert the data signals generated by a vehicle subsystem from a vehicle specific format to as mobile device data signal format defined by an Application Programming Interface API . The multimedia module can then securely and wirelessly or via USB transmit the data signals to the mobile device and or a network resource . By converting the data signals to the mobile device format the mobile device may use the data signals without knowing the vehicle specific format. Additionally the mobile device data signal format defined by the API exposes the data signals of the vehicle subsystems e.g. IVI ECUs and other vehicle hardware and software in a standardized way thereby enabling multiple vendors or software developers to create mobile device applications that execute on the mobile device and process the data signals from to the vehicle subsystems . In the same way the API can expose the data signals from to the vehicle subsystems in a standardized way for the network resources .

Additionally a user of the mobile device and or a network resource can send a write or control signal from the mobile device and or network resource through the multimedia module to a vehicle subsystem via the CAN bus of the vehicle . The write control signal enables the user of the mobile device and or network resources to alter the state or monitor the state of one or more components of a vehicle subsystem . The write control signal can be formatted in the mobile device data signal format defined by the API and wirelessly or via USB transmitted to the multimedia module . The multimedia module can convert the write control signal to the vehicle specific format and communicate the write control signal to the appropriate component of a vehicle subsystem . By converting the write control signal from the mobile device format defined by the API to the vehicle specific format the multimedia module supports an interface with multiple vehicle subsystems and multiple types of vehicles . Additionally the mobile device data signal format defined by the API acts as a common programming language enabling multiple vendors to write mobile device applications and or network resource applications that may communicate read monitor and write control signals to from multiple types of vehicle subsystems and multiple types of vehicles independent of the model or manufacturer.

Referring again to the multimedia module can optionally include a tuner or modem module . The optional tuner module can include one or more radio tuners or modems that can generate audio or video streams which can be played through IVI components of a vehicle subsystem . The multimedia module can also optionally include one or more antennas which can support the reception of wireless audio or video programming by the tuner module . Additionally antenna can serve to connect the multimedia module with a data or content network via radio cellular and or satellite signals. Thus the tuner module can include a radio receiver cellular signal receiver and or a satellite based data or content modem to decode data and or content signals received via radio signals cellular signals and or satellite. As a result the multimedia module of an example embodiment can source audio video content image graphical content or information content for IVI components of a vehicle subsystem from mobile devices network resources via network or network resources via network and its cellular network sources radio network sources and or satellite wireless broadcast sources directly via tuner modem module and an associated antenna . This content can be formatted for a particular vehicle subsystem by the multimedia module and transferred to the particular vehicle subsystem via the vehicle interface described above.

In the example embodiment the software components of the multimedia module e.g. the DisplayPort module BT WiFi WAN module and the module operating system can be dynamically upgraded modified and or augmented by use of the data connection with the mobile device and the network resources . The multimedia module can periodically query a network resource for updates or updates can be pushed to the multimedia module .

Referring now to example embodiments illustrate the caching model of the example embodiment. As described above in various embodiments user systems can include or be deployed on in vehicle infotainment systems with unreliable data connections. Given that a vehicle can move into and out of various wide area networks shown in and that data connectivity and the quality of the data connectivity is constantly changing in vehicle infotainment systems operate in an environment with unreliable data connections. Similarly mobile devices can move into and out of range relative to the multimedia module and into and out of range of wide area networks . Thus again the in vehicle infotainment systems and mobile devices operate in an environment with unreliable data connections. These unreliable data connections can result in data sources that become unavailable or data flows that are slow or corrupted. However users of in vehicle infotainment systems or other systems operating in an environment with unreliable data connections cannot tolerate the unavailability of data or the interruption of services especially when the data or services or alternate forms of the data or services can be provided from alternate sources.

The example embodiments described herein solve this problem by use of an intelligent service based caching model to obtain data for services when the data is obtainable or the best available form of the data is obtainable using the least expensive or best means available to retrieve information that is or will be of most interest to a particular user or client service. In the various example embodiments described below several client system caching models are shown and described to illustrate the various scenarios handled by the service based caching model of an example embodiment.

When the network separating the server system from the client system is operating efficiently and reliably the client service consumer can simply make a request to the host service via a network access and retrieve a response to the request from the host service via another network access. In this manner the client service consumer can obtain access to the analyzed data processed by the server system.

However as described above the embodiments described herein operate in an environment with an unreliable network data connection. As a result the client service consumer cannot assume that it will be able to access the analyzed data on the server system when needed. Thus the example embodiment shown in provides a client cache maintenance module and an analyzed data cache on the client system. The client cache maintenance module can be configured to periodically request from the host service a portion of the analyzed data from analyzed data store or directly from host service data analysis module . The analyzed data retrieved from the server system by the client cache maintenance module can be stored in the analyzed data cache . As described in more detail below the client cache maintenance module can also perform speculative fetching operations to retrieve data that will likely be used by a client service.

The client cache maintenance module can also be configured to receive service requests from the client service consumer . If the network is operating reliably the client cache maintenance module can pass the service request on to the host service and return analyzed data to the client service consumer in a response from the host service . When the data connection between the client system and the server system via network is unreliable or lost completely the client cache maintenance module can process the service request from the client service consumer without a network access. The client cache maintenance module can access analyzed data from the local analyzed data cache and serve the data to the requesting client service consumer . Because the analyzed data in the analyzed data cache has been periodically and speculatively updated by the client cache maintenance module the analyzed data in the analyzed data cache is reasonably current. The client cache maintenance module can suppress the delivery of any stale data to the client service consumer . In this manner the client cache maintenance module can use the local analyzed data cache to deliver all or a portion of the analyzed data to a client service consumer in a client system without a network access if the network becomes unreliable. This service based caching model of an example embodiment provides a more consistent and satisfying user experience in environments with unreliable data network connections.

Because the embodiments described herein operate in an environment with an unreliable network data connection the example caching model also includes a client data retention module . As shown in the example embodiment of the client data retention module is resident at the client system and interposed between the data generation module and the host service client data collection module . The client data retention module is configured to receive data generated b the data generation module and to transfer the received data to the host service client data collection module via a network data communication. Additionally the client data retention module can be configured to receive a data request from the host service client data collection module via a network data communication and to retrieve the requested data from the data generation module . The retrieved data can be transferred to the host service client data collection module via a network data communication. In this manner the client data retention module can serve as an intermediary between the data generation module and the host service client data collection module . This intermediary role can serve an important purpose because the client data retention module can also he configured to copy the data generated by the data generation module to a local client resident data store . As a result the local data store. can serve as an alternate local data resource for client services when the network is inoperative and the host services and data store are inaccessible.

The example embodiment shown in provides a client service representative module. to assist client services when network data communication is unreliable. As shown in the client service representative module is resident at the client system and interposed between the client app and the host service . The client service representative module is configured to receive service requests generated by the client app and to transfer the received service requests to the host service as remote requests via a stet network data communication. Additionally the client service representative module can be configured to receive a remote request from the host service via a network data communication and to transfer the host service request to the client app . The response to the host service request can be transferred from the client app to the host service via the client service representative module and a network data communication. In this manner the client service representative module can serve as an intermediary between the client app and the host service .

Because the embodiments described herein can operate in an environment with unreliable network communications the client service representative module of the example embodiment can be configured to perform an additional function. The client service representative module receives requests transferred between client app and host service . These requests or variations thereof can also be transferred to a local service as a local request that does not need a network communication. Local service can be configured to perform functions similar to the functions provided by host service . Typically the functions provided by local service might be less robust than the corresponding functions normally provided by host service . But if network communication is lost it is better to provide a less robust service provided by local service than to provide no service at all. A plurality of local services can be provided on the client system as resources permit. These local services can serve as back up alternate or additional local services in support of host services that will be available if network communication is lost.

In a dual query hybrid configuration the client service representative module of the example embodiment can be configured to receive a service request from client app or other client service consumer as described above. However in the dual query hybrid configuration the client service representative module forwards the service request to both the host service as a remote request and to the local service as a local request. Thus the service request from client app is converted to a dual request targeting both the host service and local service . These dual requests arc processed separately by the host service and the local service each service producing results in response to the request. The result produced by the host service is denoted as the host service result. The result produced by the local service is denoted as the local service result. As shown in each of these results is returned to the client service representative module .

The client service representative module of an example embodiment is configured to include a client merge component . The client merge component receives the host service result and the local service result via the client service representative module . The client merge component is configured to merge the host service result with the local service to produce a composite result. In an example embodiment this merge operation can include combining non conflicting data deleting redundant data preferring more recent data preferring more accurate data preferring more complete data preferring more detailed data preferring particular data items that are more consistent with related data items and performing a variety of other operations configured to produce the most accurate and complete composite data set from a combination of the data from the host service result and the local service result. The merge operation can include an analysis of the result data content itself analysis of related metadata and analysis of consistency between different data sets. As a result the client merge component produces an accurate and complete composite data set based on a combination of the host service result and the local service result. The composite data set is delivered to the client app via the client service representative module as the response to the original service request from client app .

Given the system configuration shown in and described above several benefits are realized. For example if the network is operating nominally and the host service generates the most accurate and complete result in response to the service request from client app the example embodiment enables the client app to receive the best service that host service can offer. However if network or host service becomes unstable or unreliable the example embodiment automatically fills all or a portion of the composite result with data from local service sources. As a result operation of the client system is not suspended if the connection to network or host service is lost. Moreover in some circumstances the result data produced by the local services may be better than the result data produced by the host service . In these circumstances the client app will receive the best result data produced by either the local services or the host service . Thus the example embodiment enables the client app to receive the best result data produced by either or both of the local and remote sources.

As shown in the example embodiment includes a client data cache . As described above the client data cache can be populated with service related data from a host service and or client resident services or service consumers. For example as shown and described above in connection with the client data cache can include various versions of analyzed data processed by the host service and captured by a client cache maintenance component of the client service representative module . The client cache maintenance component can periodically retrieve analyzed data from host service and store the analyzed data into the client data cache as described above. As another example shown and described above in connection with the client data cache can include local data produced by a data generation module and captured by a client data retention component of the client service representative module . The client data retention component can store the local data into the client data cache as described above. As described in more detail below components of the client system can also perform speculative cache data fetches from local or remote data sources based on a variety of criteria including current geographical location of the client system temporal status system status user status anticipated data requirements of particular services anticipated data requirements of a particular user a user s explicit preference profile a user s implicit affinity based on demographics and or usage history or behaviors and a variety of other speculative cache data fetch criteria likely to populate the client data cache with data actually used by one or more services. Thus the client data cache can include a variety of service related data sourced from a variety of local and or remote sources. This service related data can be used by the local service when the local service produces the local service result in response to a service request from client app . Given that the client data cache can be periodically and speculatively updated as described herein the content of the client data cache can be substantially similar to the content of data stores on the server system. Additionally the client data cache can be periodically updated by local services. As a result the client data cache can contain data content that is often as good as or better than the content provided by the remote sources. Moreover access to the local service and local client data cache can often be performed taster than remote access via the network . Therefore the example embodiments can provide an excellent user experience even if the network or host service is unreliable.

In an example embodiment the service personalization module can also implement rules that configure a caching model of a client system to perform speculative cache data fetches from local or remote data sources. The speculatively fetched data can be stored in a client data cache as shown in and used in a manner as described above. The data can be speculatively fetched based on a variety of criteria including current geographical location of the client system the pre set destination temporal status system status user status anticipated data requirements of particular services anticipated data requirements of a particular user a user s explicit preference profile as user s implicit affinity based on demographics and or usage history or behaviors and a variety of other speculative cache data fetch criteria likely to populate the client data cache with data actually used by one or more services. For example the service personalization module can speculatively fetch data based on a pre set destination in a vehicle navigation system speculatively fetch data based on an item in a user s calendar speculatively fetch data based on personal preferences of the user speculatively fetch data based on the identity or type of a particular requested service or the like. Additionally the service personalization module can speculatively fetch data based on a cost of a data connection to a server. In this example the service personalization module can be configured to initiate a network communication across an available low cost WiFi channel for example rather than use a higher cost network channel such as a cellular network channel. Additionally the service personalization module can be configured to initiate a network communication across an available network channel only or by preference at times of the day when data charges are less expensive. As a result of this speculative cache fetching the client data cache is more likely to contain data needed by local services if the network or host service should become unavailable or unreliable. Moreover the speculative cache fetching is likely to be more cost effective.

In a particular embodiment a server operating remotely in the server system can perform configuration operations on the service personalization module by pushing various rule sets to the service personalization module via a network communication. These various rule sets can modify the manner in which the service personalization module performs service personalization and customization as described above.

Thus the caching model of the various example embodiments is described. The described embodiments are particularly useful in client systems that can include or be deployed on in vehicle infotainment systems with unreliable data connections. However it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the disclosure herein that the system can be deployed in a variety of applications. The caching model of the various embodiments can be deployed in the multimedia module see described herein in the mobile device or a combination thereof.

As used herein the term CAN bus refers to any bus or data communications system used in a vehicle for communicating signals between an IVI system ECUs or other vehicle components. The CAN bus may be a bus that operates according to versions of the CAN specification but is not limited thereto. The term CAN bus can therefore refer to buses or data communications systems that operate according to other specifications including those that might be developed in the future.

As used herein and unless specified otherwise the term mobile device includes any computing or communications device that can communicate with the multimedia module described herein to obtain read or write access to data signals messages or content communicated on a CAN bus or via any other mode of inter process data communications. In many eases the mobile device is a handheld portable device such as a smart phone mobile phone cellular telephone tablet computer laptop computer display pager radio frequency RF device infrared IR device global positioning device GPS Personal Digital Assistants PDA handheld computers wearable computer portable game console other mobile communication and or computing device or an integrated device combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. Additionally the mobile device can be a computing device personal computer PC multiprocessor system microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronic device network PC diagnostics equipment a system operated by as vehicle manufacturer or service technician and the like and is not limited to portable devices. The mobile device can receive and process data in any of an variety of data formats. The data format may include or be configured to operate with any programming format protocol or language including but not limited to JavaScript C iOS Android etc.

As used herein and unless specified otherwise the term network resource includes any device system or service that can communicate with the multimedia module described herein to obtain read or write access to data signals messages or content communicated on a CAN bus or via any other mode of inter process or networked data communications. In many cases the network resource is a data network accessible computing platform including client or server computers websites mobile devices peer to peer P2P network nodes and the like. Additionally the network resource can be a web appliance a network router switch bridge gateway diagnostics equipment a system operated by a vehicle manufacturer or service technician or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine can also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute as set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein. The network resources may include any of a variety of providers or processors of network transportable digital content. Typically the file format that is employed is Extensible Markup Language XML however the various embodiments are not so limited and other file formats may be used. For example data formats other than Hypertext Markup Language HTML XML or formats other than open standard data formats can be supported by various embodiments. Any electronic file format such as Portable Document Format PDF audio e.g. Motion Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 and the like video e.g. MP4 and the like and any proprietary interchange format defined by specific content sites can be supported by the various embodiments described herein.

The wide area data networks and also denoted the network cloud used with the network resources can be configured to couple one computing or communication device with another computing or communication device. The network may be enabled to employ any form of computer readable data or media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. The network can include the Internet in addition to other wide area networks WANs cellular telephone networks metro area networks local area networks LANs other packet switched networks circuit switched networks direct data connections such as through a universal serial bus USB or Ethernet port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. The network can include the Internet in addition to other wide area networks WANs cellular telephone networks satellite networks over the air broadcast networks AM FM radio networks pager networks UHF networks other broadcast networks gaming networks WiFi networks peer to peer networks Voice Over IP VoIP networks metro area networks local area networks LANs other packet switched networks circuit switched networks direct data connections such as through a universal serial bus USB or Ethernet port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of networks including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router or gateway can act as a link between networks enabling messages to be sent between computing devices on different networks. Also communication links within networks can typically include twisted wire pair cabling USB Firewire Ethernet or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog or digital telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4. Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital User Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links cellular telephone links or other communication links known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices can be remotely connected to the network via a modem and temporary telephone link.

The networks and may further include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection. Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like. The network may also include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links or wireless transceivers. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of the network may change rapidly.

The networks and may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 2.5 3rd 3G 4th 4G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G 4G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as one or more of client devices with various degrees of mobility. For example the network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 and the like. The network may also be constructed for use with various other wired and wireless communication protocols including TCP IP UDP SIP SMS RTP WAP CDMA TDMA EDGE UMTS GPRS GSM UWB WiMax IEEE 802.11x and the like. In essence the networks and may include virtually any wired and or wireless communication mechanisms by which information may travel between one computing device and another computing device network and the like.

In a particular embodiment a mobile device and or a network resource may act as a client device enabling a user to access and use the multimedia module to interact with one or more components of a vehicle subsystem . These client devices or may include virtually any computing device that is configured to send and receive information over a network such as networks and as described herein. Such client devices may include mobile devices such as cellular telephones smart phones tablet computers display pagers radio frequency RE devices infrared IR devices global positioning devices GPS Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers wearable computers game consoles integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. The client devices may also include other computing devices such as personal computers PCs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PC s and the like. As such client devices may range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a client device configured as a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and a color LCD display screen in which both text and graphics ma be displayed. Moreover the web enabled client device may include a browser application enabled to receive and to send wireless application protocol messages WAP and or wired application messages and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ HyperText Markup Language HTML . Dynamic HTML Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript EXtensible HTML xHTML Compact HTML CHTML and the like to display and send a message with relevant information.

The client devices may also include at least one client application that is configured to receive content or messages from another computing device via a network transmission. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content graphical content video content audio content alerts messages notifications and the like. Moreover the client devices may be further configured to communicate and or receive a message such as through a Short Message Service SMS direct messaging e.g. Twitter email Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC mIRC Jabber Enhanced Messaging Service EMS text messaging Smart Messaging Over the Air OTA messaging or the like between another computing device and the like. The client devices may also include a wireless application device on which a client application is configured to enable a user of the device to send and receive information to from network resources wirelessly via the network.

Multimedia module can be implemented using systems that enhance the security of the execution environment thereby improving security and reducing the possibility that the multimedia module and the related services could be compromised by viruses or malware. For example multimedia module can be implemented using a Trusted Execution Environment which can ensure that sensitive data is stored processed and communicated in a secure way.

As stated above the multimedia module may receive data signals from the vehicle subsystems that can be converted to a particular mobile device format and or a network resource format defined by the API. The multimedia module may then communicate the data signals formatted in the mobile device format to the mobile device . More specifically in one example embodiment the multimedia module may be configured to wirelessly communicate the data signals in the mobile device format to the mobile device . The multimedia module may include several configurations. Additionally in some embodiments the multimedia module may establish a secure channel between the multimedia module and the mobile device . In addition to or as an alternative to the secure channel the multimedia module may encrypt the data signals formatted in the mobile device format. The mobile device may decrypt the data signals. The inclusion of the secure channel and or encryption may enhance security of the data signals communicated to the mobile device .

In embodiments in which the multimedia module wirelessly communicates the data signals to the mobile device the multimedia module and the mobile device can include wireless capabilities such as Bluetooth WiFi 3G 4G LTE etc. For example if the multimedia module includes a Bluetooth transceiver as part of the BT WiFi WAN module the multimedia module can communicate wirelessly with the mobile device using Bluetooth capabilities. Generally the mobile device includes one or more mobile device applications that process the data signals from fur the multimedia module . The mobile device applications can produce a user interface with which a user may monitor and control the operation of vehicle subsystems via the multimedia module and the mobile device . The mobile device application may be loaded downloaded or installed on the mobile device using conventional processes. Alternatively the mobile device may access a mobile device application via the network cloud for example. The mobile device application may also be accessed and used as a Software as a Service SaaS application. The mobile device application may be written or created to process data signals in the mobile device format rather than the vehicle specific format. Accordingly the mobile device application may be vehicle agnostic. That is the mobile device application may process data signals from any vehicle subsystem once the data signals formatted in the vehicle specific format are converted by the multimedia module .

By processing the data signals from the multimedia module and the vehicle subsystems the mobile device application may function better than a mobile device application without the data signals or may be able to provide functionality not possible without the data signals. For example the mobile device applications may include a multimedia application. With the inclusion of the multimedia module connected to the vehicle subsystems as described herein the multimedia application in the mobile device may be used to monitor and control the IVI system in a vehicle .

Additionally or alternatively the mobile device application may enable abstraction of data signals for aggregate uses. For some aggregate uses the mobile device application may sync with one or more secondary systems not shown . For example the mobile device may abstract data signals related to usage of the IVI system in a vehicle . The mobile device may communicate with a secondary system that determines media consumption patterns based on the usage of the IVI system in the vehicle .

Examples of the mobile device applications are not limited to the above examples. The mobile device application may include any application that processes abstracts or evaluates data signals from the vehicle subsystems or transmits write control signals to the vehicle subsystems .

The example computer system includes a data processor a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse to disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a non transitory machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device . While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single non transitory medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium can also he taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform an one or more of the methodologies of the various embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium can accordingly be taken to include but not he limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

