---

title: Medical device tracking system and apparatus
abstract: A method for tracking medical devices and tools in a medical environment is disclosed. The method includes registering a plurality of radio frequency identification (RFID) tags with a plurality of medical tools, generating an item list comprising a set of medical tools, wirelessly sensing the RFID tags associated with an assembled set of medical tools, assembled in preparation of a medical procedure based upon the generated item list, deciding, if the RFID tags associated with the assembled medical tools is sensed, that the medical device or tool is present in the assembled set of the medical tools, generating a checked-in list of medical tools based upon the deciding, accounting medical tools assembled for check-out by wirelessly sensing the RFID tags associated with the medical tools assembled for check-out, and displaying a list of medical tools associated with the checked-in list and not included in the accounting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08925812&OS=08925812&RS=08925812
owner: 
number: 08925812
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130315
---
This disclosure relates to medical devices and more particularly to tracking medical devices tools and supplies in a medical environment.

The statements in this section merely provide background information related to the present disclosure and may not constitute prior art.

In a medical environment technicians and medical personnel must prepare surgical instruments and various medical devices in anticipation of a medical procedure. In many hospitals and other medical environments an inventory list of necessary equipment is generated from which a set of medical devices including surgical tools is assembled. Technicians typically must match the medical devices instruments against the written list when assembling instrument sets for sterilization after they are received from the washers. The process can be time consuming and is prone to human error. In some cases identifying marks and other identifying indicia can be difficult to discern.

In an operating room environment prior to the start of the surgery a circulating nurse and a surgical technologist must verify the correctness of the total number and accuracy of the instruments present by the nurse. A written list is used containing instruments that are entered into the instrument set. Comparison and verification is made by a reading by the nurse to the technologist and verification with the technologist at the actual instrument. This process especially when multiple sets and specialty instruments are necessary can be particularly inefficient and susceptible to human error. When additional instrumentation is required during the surgery the circulating nurse must add these instruments to the written count.

Therefore a need exists for a medical device tracking system and apparatus to track medical devices such as surgical tools and supplies in a medical environment such as an operating room.

A method and system for tracking medical devices tools and supplies in a medical environment is disclosed. The method includes registering a plurality of radio frequency identification RFID tags with a plurality of medical tools generating an item list comprising a set of medical tools wirelessly sensing the RFID tags associated with an assembled set of medical tools assembled in preparation of a medical procedure based upon the generated item list deciding if the RFID tags associated with the assembled medical tools is sensed that the medical device or tool is present in the assembled set of the medical tools generating a checked in list of medical tools based upon the deciding accounting medical tools assembled for check out by wirelessly sensing the RFID tags associated with the medical tools assembled for check out and displaying a list of medical tools associated with the checked in list and not included in the accounting.

In a medical environment such as a hospital the system for tracking medical devices and tools may be utilized to ensure that requested sets of medical tools are assembled and prepared for use in a medical procedure. The system enables hospital personnel to verify completeness of the assembly prior to the medical procedure or sterilization. In one such exemplary environment a mobile device is utilized to scan in RFID tags associated with a plurality of medical tools. The mobile device scans in the RFID tag information the system then determines that the medical tools have been assembled completely according to a requested item list. The medical tools may then be transported to an operating room. There the medical tools may be scanned a second time generating a checked in list. During the medical procedure various tools may be added or subtracted to the checked in list according to needs of the medical personnel. Before completing a medical procedure it is sometime necessary to account for all of the medical tools utilized in a procedure. For example before closing a surgical wound the checked in medical tools are preferentially accounted. A mobile device taught herein quickly accounts for the medical tools and may be utilized to identify any missing tools.

This summary is provided merely to introduce certain concepts and not to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter.

Various embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals represent like parts and assemblies throughout the several views. Reference to various embodiments does not limit the scope of the invention which is limited only by the scope of the claims attached hereto. Additionally any examples set forth in this specification are not intended to be limiting and merely set forth some of the many possible embodiments for the claimed invention.

Referring now to the drawings wherein the depictions are for the purpose of illustrating certain exemplary embodiments only and not for the purpose of limiting the same schematically shows an exemplary medical device tracking system that may help implement the methodologies of the present disclosure. The system includes a computing device a server system a network and a mobile tracking device . As shown in the computing device may be directly communicatively connected to the mobile device via the network and or directly communicatively connected to the mobile device . The server system may be directly communicatively connected to the mobile device and the computing device via the network and or directly communicatively connected to the mobile device . The mobile device may be physically connected to the network or the computing device during selected periods of operation without departing from the teachings herein. The disclosure herein can be applied with or without use of the network and is therefore not intended to be limited to thereby. Components of the medical device tracking system are shown in as single elements. Such illustration is for ease of description and it should be recognized that the system may include multiple additional implementations of the components e.g. the mobile device and the computing device may be a single device.

The network may be any suitable series of points or nodes interconnected by communication paths. The network may be interconnected with other networks and contain sub networks network such as for example a publicly accessible distributed network like the Internet or other telecommunications networks e.g. intranets virtual nets overlay networks and the like . The network may facilitates the exchange of data between and among the mobile device the computing device and the server system although in various embodiments the mobile device may be directly connected to the computing device .

The server system may be one or more of various embodiments of a computer including high speed microcomputers minicomputers mainframes and or data storage devices. The server system preferably executes database functions including storing and maintaining a database and processes requests from the mobile device and the computing device to extract data from or update a database as described herein below. The server may additionally provide processing functions for the mobile device and the computing device as will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon a careful reading of the teachings herein.

In addition the mobile device may include one or more applications that the user may operate. Operation may include downloading installing turning on unlocking activating or otherwise using the application. The application may comprise at least one of an algorithm software computer code and or the like for example mobile application software. In the alternative the application may be a website accessible through the world wide web.

The central processing unit is preferably one or more general purpose microprocessor or central processing unit s and has a set of control algorithms comprising resident program instructions and calibrations stored in the memory and executed to provide the desired functions including parallel processing functions. As one skilled in the art will recognize the central processing unit may have any number of processing cores or electronic architecture configured to execute processes in parallel. In one embodiment an application program interface API is preferably executed by the operating system for computer applications to make requests of the operating system or other computer applications. The description of the central processing unit is meant to be illustrative and not restrictive to the disclosure and those skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosure may also be implemented on platforms and operating systems other than those mentioned.

The host processor module may be configured to execute various computer programs e.g. software firmware or other code such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for the device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the host processor module and the radio processor are shown and described as separate processors such an illustration is for ease of description and it should be recognized that the functions performed by the host processor module and the radio processor may be combined on a single chip.

In various embodiments host processor module may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor or other processing device in alternative embodiments configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example host processor module may be responsible for executing various computer programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user. The computer programs may be stored as firmware on a memory associated with processor may be loaded by a manufacturer during a process of manufacturing device and may be updated from time to time with new versions or software updates via wired or wireless communication.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system a kernel device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API a GUI and so forth.

The memory module is preferably coupled to the host processor module . In various embodiments the memory module may be configured to store one or more computer programs to be executed by the host processor module . The memory module may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Although the memory module is shown as being separate from the host processor module for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor module . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory module may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. solid state drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor module .

A user input device may be coupled to the host processor module . The user input device may include for example an alphanumeric numeric key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The device also may include various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad and so forth.

The host processor module may be coupled to a display device . The display device may include any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the device such as a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

An I O interface is preferably coupled to the host processor module . The I O interface may include one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local or networked computer system such as a workstation client and or the server .

In one embodiment the device includes an audio video A V module coupled to the host processor module for communicatively connecting and communicating therebetween to various audio video devices. The A V module may be configured to support A V capability of the device including components such as a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a video codec a video player and so forth. The A V input module may include an imaging module configured to capture digital images. The imagining module may include an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips. The image frames may be processed by the memory or displayed on the display .

A power supply configured to supply and manage power to components of device is preferably coupled to the host processor module . In various exemplary embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As described herein above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the device . For example the radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may include or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP a media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Memory may be coupled to the radio processor . Although memory is shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . Further the host processor module and the radio processor may share a single memory.

The device may include one or more transceivers coupled to the radio processor each transceiver may be configured to communicate using a different types of protocol communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. For example the transceiver may include a Wi Fi transceiver and a cellular or WAN transceiver configured to operate simultaneously. The transceiver may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although transceiver is shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The transceiver is preferably connected to an antenna for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown in the antenna may be coupled to the radio processor through transceiver .

A SIM device may be coupled to radio processor . The SIM device may be implemented as a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM device also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

An I O interface may be coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may include one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between the device and one or more external computer systems.

A radio frequency identification RFID reader may be coupled to the radio processor or the host processor . In one embodiment functions of the RFID reader are incorporated into the radio processor enabling the mobile device to utilizes the transceiver and antenna to carry out functions of the RFID reader . The RFID reader is configured to read identification information stored on an RFID tag by use of radio waves. In one embodiment an RFID tag is formed of a microchip that is attached to an antenna and upon which is stored a unique digital identification number.

The RFID reader is a transmitter receiver that reads the contents of RFID tags such as exemplary RFID tag that are in the vicinity of the reader . For example RFID reader reads the contents of the RFID tag that is in the vicinity of RFID reader . RFID reader converts the radio waves reflected back from RFID tag via an antenna into digital data that may then be conveyed to the computing device which may utilize the information. The RFID reader and the RFID tag may be configured to operate using inductive coupling electrostatic coupling or electromagnetic coupling in which induction of a current in a coil induction of a voltage on a plate or a magnetic field respectively may be used as a means for transferring data and or power. The operational distance between the RFID reader and the RFID tag depends on the particular hardware configurations as well as the frequency and power of the transmitted signals.

Each RFID tag may be programmed with unique information such as encoded data that includes an identifying code corresponding to store information. For example a 64 to 256 bit code may contain the following data company identification number product number and unique serial number. In one embodiment of the RFID tag information may be stored in a storage module . The storage may comprise any suitable type of storage medium such as random access memory RAM flash memory electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM etc. and or combinations thereof.

Further the profile may include specific dates and times for when profiled object is to be scanned for an inventory count and the specific location of profiled object within the entity. Furthermore the profile may include instructions as to how the system is to perform the inventory count of profiled object. For example a particular profiled object may represent one or more objects each of which includes an RFID tag such as the RFID tag . Consequently the profile instructs the system to count each individual profiled object.

After registration one or more profiles may be generated each having a set of medical devices and tools associated therewith . Each profile may correspond to a medical procedure or room in a hospital for example. In this way a list of required medical tools may be created or recalled quickly by hospital staff. For example a heart transplant procedure requires a particular set of medical tools and devices to be available and ready for the surgeons during the procedure. By associating the set of tools with a profile and associating the profile with the operation the list of tools may be quickly assembled by staff in preparation for the procedure.

In one embodiment an item list of tools for a procedure may be generated based upon a predetermined profile a manually entered list or a list generated previously . Tools and medical devices may be readily added or subtracted from a generated list for particular doctor preferences or special requests. Once the item list is generated by the technician or user operator the item set is preferably given a unique surgery set ID. The surgery set will be loaded in a database an electronic record will be kept of the surgery set. The record can include a video and instrument number of the set.

Once the item list is generated a technician may assemble and prepare the medical devices and tools on the item list . After assembly of the medical devices and tools or during the assembly the technician may verify that the correct devices and tools have been acquired . Verification is executed using the mobile device . The unique RFID tag positioned on each of the medical devices and tools may be read by the mobile device when positioning or waving the mobile device over or in proximity to the various medical devices and tools. The system makes a decision regarding the presence or absence of an item in the list by checking if any one of the RFID tags associated with the item are sensed by the mobile device as described herein above.

An action list may be generated that displays any potential extra medical devices and tools that were scanned in but not requested by the list . The action list may also display any potential medical devices and tools that were not scanned and therefore remain unassembled or missing. The mobile device may selectively display the generated list or the action list in response to a request by the user. After each of the requested medical devices and tools have been properly assembly and verified by the mobile device the technician user may check in the medical devices and tools . In some medical environments subsequent to assembling the complete item list the set of medical tools may be physically transferred to medical room such as a surgery suite. There a circulating nurse or other user operator may scan the set of medical tools using the mobile device for check in . In one embodiment a video display of the surgery set will be displayed on a touch screen to accept or reject. On acceptance of the set as correct an electronic record will be recorded to the unique surgery set ID that the surgery set was accepted in the surgery suite. Any additional items added during surgery will be added to the electronic surgery set as required. This data will be added to a database for recording. As described herein below the check in list may be subsequently utilized after performing the medical procedure to compare the checked in medical devices and tools with a scanned list of checked out medical devices and tools.

During the medical procedure additional medical devices and tools may be necessary that were not included in the list or the checked in list. The new medical devices and tools may be included by scanning the RFID tag and checking in the new device or tool. Various devices and tools may be required to enter and exit the medical procedure environment depending on or consistent with a medical environment protocol these devices and tools may be quickly checked in and out as needed .

Subsequent to a medical procedure or just prior to in the particular case of a surgery and closing a surgical wound it is necessary to account for each of the medical devices and tools . Accounting is accomplished by scanning the medical devices and tool s RFID tags. The scanned tags are accounted and compared with the checked in list and any additions or subtractions made during the medical procedure. Similar to above the system makes a decision regarding the presence or absence of an item in the list by checking if any one of the RFID tags associated with the item are sensed by the mobile device . In this way medical devices and tools may be quickly identified as missing. If the post medical procedure scan matches the check in list including any amendments made during the procedure a circulating nurse or user operator can accept the scan and indicate all items accounted for. An electronic record can be recorded indicating that the items have been accounted. If the scan does not match the check in list including any amendments made during the procedure the missing devices or tools can be display on the video display showing the particular unscanned items. In some medical environments the circulating nurse will be required to find the missing item and rescan the set. Once the unscanned or missing items are found an electronic record will be recorded that all items have been accounted for.

Additionally to prevent loss of instrumentation which currently may occur during clean up the mobile device can be used again prior to physically taking the medical devices and tools from a medical operating environment to a central processing environment . In some medical environments the unique ID for that medical set will be recorded as completed all steps of the process and returned and marked for availability.

A change location navigational selection may be made available to a user. Upon selection a user interface module configured to accept information associated with a location may be presented. In one embodiment a field for user comments may be made available along with an informational module. A shipper shown as a Send out for Maintenance button navigational selection may be made available to a user in one embodiment. Upon selection a user interface module is presented configured preferably with a list of shipper carriers from which a user may select. A status change navigational button may be made available to a user in one embodiment. Upon selection a user may update an item s status including e.g. an instrument is broken selection an instrument is missing selection and a retire instrument selection for example.

The disclosure has described certain preferred embodiments and modifications thereto. Further modifications and alterations may occur to others upon reading and understanding the specification. Therefore it is intended that the disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this disclosure but that the disclosure will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

