---

title: System and method for blended PSTN and computer network customer support interactions
abstract: The present disclosure includes a system and method for blended telephone network and computer network customer support interactions. The system may include a web server, one or more controllers, a telephone exchange, a monitoring server, and one or more client devices. The method may include receiving a multimedia support request, establishing a multimedia communications session, instructing a telephony application associated with the multimedia communications session to place a telephone call, routing and connecting the telephone call to an available endpoint, identifying the available endpoint when the telephone call is connected to the available endpoint, and transmitting an invitation to participate in the multimedia communications session to the available endpoint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020136&OS=09020136&RS=09020136
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09020136
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131111
---
This application a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 664 179 filed on Oct. 30 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Conventional contact centers which are examples of a point of contact POC for a customer seeking assistance for a product or service generally rely on traditional communication systems connected by the public switched telephone network PSTN to interact with customers. Interaction between customers seeking assistance and customer support agents is often limited to communications over standard telephone connections. Thus customers without access to a telephone connection or desiring multimedia interaction are not accommodated.

More recently multimedia contact centers that support both systems connected by the PSTN and systems connected by a network of computers such as the Internet have been proposed. A customer support agent at a multimedia contact center is generally provided with equipment that supports both telephone based and computer network based communications. For example an agent s workspace may be provided with a telephone connected to a private branch exchange PBX that receives customer support requests via the PSTN and a computer connected to a server that receives customer support requests via the Internet. In this example the agent can provide support over either the telephone or the computer. However since an agent is generally only able to provide support to one customer at a time a problem arises when the agent receives simultaneous customer support requests over both telephone and computer. In this example the agent cannot provide support to both customers leaving one customer unsatisfied.

Consequently there is a need for a system and method that supports blended PSTN and computer network e.g. Internet customer support interactions while alleviating agent workflow complications. Moreover there is a need for a system and method that supports blended PSTN and computer network customer support interactions with intelligent routing of customer support requests to available agents.

An embodiment disclosed herein describes a system e.g. contact center comprising a web server configured to receive a multimedia support request from a requesting client device and establish a multimedia communications session with the requesting client device at a particular address a first controller configured to generate a room identifier associated with the multimedia support request and instruct the web server to transmit an invitation to the requesting client device for the requesting client device to join the multimedia communications session at the particular address a second controller configured to instruct a telephony application to place a proxy telephone call after the requesting client device accepts the invitation in association with the multimedia communications session to a telephone exchange and after the proxy telephone call has passed through a joint queue configured to accept proxy and non proxy service telephone calls route the proxy telephone call to an available agent client device and a monitoring server configured to monitor the telephone exchange and report to the first controller routing of the proxy telephone call to the available agent client device the first controller further configured to transmit a message including the room identifier to the available agent client device in response to the report from the monitoring server wherein the available agent client device is configured to connect to the multimedia communications session at the particular address and audio is exchanged between the requesting client device and the agent client device via at least one of the proxy telephone call and the multimedia communications session.

In some embodiments the contact center further includes an automated contact center resource associated with the multimedia communications session configured to determine a specific skill necessary to resolve the multimedia support request a first table at the first controller associating a skill specific telephone number with the specific skill and a second table at the first controller associating the room identifier with the skill specific telephone number. The automated contact center resource may include an interactive voice response unit.

The telephony application may place the proxy telephone call through the PSTN to the skill specific telephone number corresponding to the specific skill necessary to resolve the multimedia support request the monitoring server may report an agent identifier corresponding to the available agent client device and the skill specific telephone number to the first controller and the first controller may transmit the message including the room identifier based on the second table.

The specific skill may be one of a plurality of skills associated with the contact center the skill specific telephone number may be one of a plurality of skill specific telephone numbers the first table associating each of the skill specific telephone numbers with one of the skills associated with the contact center and the joint queue may be one of a plurality of queues each queue being associated with one of the skills associated with the multimedia contact center and temporarily storing calls for routing to available agent client devices.

In some embodiments the contact center further includes a first table associating a new proxy identifier generated by the first controller with the room identifier wherein the telephony application may place the proxy telephone call to the telephone exchange using the new proxy identifier. Caller identification for the proxy telephone call may be set to the new proxy identifier. The new proxy identifier may be generated randomly.

The telephony application may place the proxy telephone call to the telephone exchange using the proxy identifier as caller identification the monitoring server may identify and report the new proxy identifier along with an agent identifier identifying the available agent client device to the first controller and the first controller may associate the agent identifier to the room identifier using the first table.

Another embodiment describes a contact center supporting both web and telephone originating support requests comprising a telephone exchange configured to receive a plurality of customer telephone calls for support requests from requesting client telephone devices a web server configured to receive a plurality of multimedia support requests from requesting client data devices a first controller configured to generate a room identifier associated with each multimedia support request and instruct the web server to transmit an invitation to the requesting client data device associated with the multimedia support request wherein a multimedia communications session at a particular address is established by the web server for each requesting client data device when the requesting client data device accepts the invitation a second controller configured to instruct a telephony application to place proxy telephone calls as proxies for each multimedia communications session to the same telephone exchange that receives customer telephone calls from client telephone devices the proxy telephone call being received by the telephone exchange and being identifiable as associated with a particular multimedia session and a joint queue configured to receive both the customer telephone calls and the proxy telephone calls and after each of the customer and proxy telephone calls has passed through the queue the telephone exchange configured to route and connect each of the customer and proxy telephone calls to an available agent client device.

In some embodiments the contact center further includes a monitoring server configured to monitor the telephone exchange and report to the first controller connection of each proxy telephone call to an agent client device the first controller configured to transmit a message including the room identifier to the agent client device in response to the report from the monitoring server wherein the agent client device is configured to connect to the multimedia communications session at the particular address via the message. Each proxy telephone call may include information associating the proxy telephone call with its associated multimedia communications session.

Another embodiment describes a method at a multimedia contact center comprising receiving a multimedia support request generating a session identifier associated with the multimedia support request transmitting an invitation including the session identifier to participate in a multimedia communications session establishing the multimedia communications session at a particular address based on acceptance of the invitation instructing a telephony application associated with the multimedia communications session to place a telephone call receiving the telephone call at an exchange routing and connecting the telephone call by the exchange to an available endpoint after it has passed through a queue with other calls monitoring the exchange to identify the available endpoint when the telephone call is connected to the available endpoint and transmitting a second invitation including the session identifier to participate in the multimedia communications session to the available endpoint.

In some embodiments the method may further include determining a specific skill necessary to resolve the multimedia support request determining a skill specific telephone number associated with the multimedia contact center based on the specific skill associating the session identifier with the skill specific telephone number placing the telephone call through the PSTN to the skill specific telephone number corresponding to the specific skill necessary to resolve the multimedia support request determining an endpoint identifier of the available endpoint connected to the telephone call to the skill specific telephone number and associating the session identifier with the endpoint identifier based on the skill specific telephone number.

The specific skill may be one of a plurality of skills associated with the multimedia contact center the skill specific telephone number may be one of a plurality of skill specific telephone numbers associated with the multimedia contact center and the queue may be one of a plurality of queues each queue being associated with one of the skills associated with the multimedia contact center and configured to temporarily store endpoint identifiers corresponding to available endpoints configured to resolve multimedia support requests.

In some embodiments the method further includes associating a new caller identifier with the session identifier and placing the telephone call to the exchange using the new caller identifier. Some embodiments of the method include generating the new caller identifier by spoofing a known telephone number associated with the multimedia contact center. Some embodiments of the method include generating the caller identifier randomly.

In some embodiments the method further includes placing the telephone call through the PSTN to the exchange using the new caller identifier identifying the new caller identifier when the telephone call is received at the exchange determining an endpoint identifier of the available endpoint when the telephone call is connected to the available endpoint and associating the session identifier with the endpoint identifier based on the new caller identifier.

In some embodiments the method further includes placing the telephone call through the Internet to the exchange using the new caller identifier identifying the new caller identifier when the telephone call is received at the exchange determining an endpoint identifier of the available endpoint when the telephone call is connected to the available endpoint and associating the session identifier with the endpoint identifier based on the new caller identifier.

Example embodiments include a system and method for blended PSTN and Internet customer support interactions that alleviates agent workflow complications. Further embodiments include a system and method that supports blended PSTN and computer network customer support interactions providing intelligent routing of customer support requests to available agents. In an example embodiment a contact center receives customer support requests connecting through the PSTN and or the Internet.

A multimedia communications session e.g. a Google Hangout is hosted by a web server or the like at the contact center for customer support requests originating over the web or Internet. A telephony application executing in association with the hangout places a proxy telephone call to the contact center. The proxy telephone call may be utilized as a place holder. The contact center routes the proxy telephone call to an available agent i.e. to the agent s workstation . Thereafter the contact center associates the agent with the hangout that initiated the proxy telephone call and invites the agent to join the hangout. In this embodiment both connections PSTN and Internet of the agent s workstation are occupied unavailable once the agent is connected to the hangout. Thus the agent is not available to receive separate customer support requests over the plural connections. Additional examples and embodiments are described in the discussion that follows.

An example multimedia communications environment is described in detail with respect to . The illustrated environment is presented as an example and does not imply any limitation regarding the use of other group networking environments. To the contrary the description contemplates all implementations of multimedia communications environments that route external multimedia resources into and out of multimedia communications sessions in the multimedia communications environment.

Turning to one or more example client devices are connected to a communications session supporting multimedia communications that enable communication among various client devices and or resources. Examples of client devices include but are not limited to portable mobile and or stationary devices such as landline telephones mobile telephones including smart phones laptop computers tablet computers desktop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players and e book readers. In some embodiments a client device can be a client data device a client telephone device or any combination thereof. In some embodiments two or more client devices of the same type may be connect to a communications session. For example two mobile telephones may connect to a communications session and interact e.g. transmit and receive data. In other embodiments two or more client devices of different type may connect to a communications session. For example a mobile telephone and a desktop computer may connect to a communications session and interact.

The communications resource s of may be the same type of devices as client device s or may be other communications mechanisms. For example client device s and resource may both be mobile telephones. In other embodiments two or more client and resources are different types of devices. For example client device s may be a mobile telephone and resource may be a desktop computer. In some embodiments the communications resource s are contact center resources including but not limited to Interactive Voice Response IVR units or other automated mechanisms.

In the embodiment illustrated by the client device s communicate with a server device s via communications path which connects through a communication network. The communications path typically includes an Internet connection or a mobile network connection between the client devices and the server . The server often comprises multiple physical servers such as a communications server for maintaining or hosting one or more communication sessions such as communications session s . In some examples the communications session is a contact center communications session for providing customer support. Of course each example server can be a physically separate machine or it can be different processes running within the same physical machine. Additionally in some embodiments server includes a plurality of interconnected devices maintained at different physical locations.

In one example embodiment the client device s maintain or host a communications session and other clients and or resources such as resource in are routed to the communication session at the client device s by server or the like. In other embodiments the server devices maintains or hosts one or more communications sessions e.g. communications session .

Communication sessions such as communications session at the communications server are supported by an environment defined by a runtime engine executing at the server. For example the runtime engine may be Google s App Engine. The runtime engine provides the platform for the session and supplies resources required for user interaction. The resources of the application engine are available to the session by way of an application programming interface API .

The client device s of include application s communications client output device e.g. a display and input device e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen . Application s provide the client device s with a variety of functionality. Generally application s employ the output device to display information at a graphical user interface GUI .

The communications client further includes a communications module that enables the output device to display information at the GUI . The communications module also enables the communications client to connect to the communications server allowing the user in to establish or join a communications session by way of client device s . Typically the communications module is a network module that connects the client device s to a network such as the Internet using standard network protocol techniques. The communications resource s may also include similar functionality as communications client . However other resources are included in example embodiments. In this manner a client device s and multiple potential resource s may join the same communications session hosted at the communications server . Through the communications session the communications module at the client device s enables the user to reside in a location where other resources may be provided or may be selected to join the session.

Once a communications session is established a session channel between the communications client and the communications server exchanges data such as audio video text and or other information. In some embodiments the data exchanged between the communications client and the communications server is optimized based at least in part on the hardware and or software capabilities of client device s . For example if the client device s are mobile devices connecting through to the communications session by way of a bandwidth limited path such as a cellular network communications server may optimize the number and quality of the audio video text and or other information sent to client device s . Furthermore communications client may dynamically adjust the bit rate required to send the information to communications server by for example reducing the quality of the audio video text and or other information being sent to communications server .

The GUI is an illustrative example of a GUI from which a communications session may be initiated and sustained. In the illustrated embodiment GUI includes information about one or more other resources connected to user by the communications session . The GUI may also include information about other resources user may access notifications of events and other information relevant to user .

In some embodiments in order to establish or join a communications session user interacts with GUI to cause communications client to generate a request to create a new communications session or join an existing communications session. For an example embodiment including a contact center the GUI may include a Get Help button that user activates in order to create a new contact center communications session. In response to user activating the Get Help button communications client sends a request to initiate a new communications session to communications server which establishes a new contact center communications session.

As the new session is initiated various resources such as resources in may be directed to the session as needed without the client device s being disconnected or transferred from the communications session. Again returning to the contact center example an IVR may be initiated as a resource . The IVR may permit the user to hear communications directed at identifying and solving the help issues identified by the user . As the IVR provides its resource the server and or other contact center mechanism can receive information that is processed to determine other resources that should be provided to the session to aid in solving the help issues. As the resources are provided the user is not required to have disruption of service.

In one alternative example embodiment user may request to join an existing communications session . The user may select e.g. a join prior session icon at the GUI and select a session from a displayed list of available sessions at the GUI or selects a join icon displayed in an external source such as an instant message or posting. However communicated to the user in response to user initiating an attempt to join an existing session communications client sends a request to join the communications session to the communications server . The request includes an identifier of the particular communications session sought to be joined. The identifier may be included in the join link. Thereafter the communications server connects communications client to the specified communications session e.g. communications session .

Referring now to one particular example of the client device s is illustrated. In general many other embodiments of the client device s may be used as long as they support at least limited participation in communications sessions. In the illustrated embodiment of the client device s includes one or more processor s memory a network interface one or more storage device s power source output device and input device . The client device s also includes an operating system and a communications client that are executable by the client. In a conventional fashion each of components and are interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications.

As illustrated the processors are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within the client device s . For example processors execute instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . Memory which may be a non transient computer readable storage medium is configured to store information within client device s during operation. In some embodiments memory includes a temporary memory area for information not to be maintained when the client device s is turned off. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . The memory may maintain program instructions for execution by the processors .

Storage devices also include one or more non transient computer readable storage media. Storage devices are generally configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

The client device s uses network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include Bluetooth 3G 4G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and USB. In some embodiments the client device s uses network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as the server of a mobile phone or other networked computing device. In some embodiments the network interface supports wired connections.

The client device s includes one or more input device s . Input device is configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio and or video feedback. Non limiting examples of input device include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output device s are also included in client device s . Output device is configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio and or video stimuli. Output device may include a display screen part of the presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user.

The client device s includes one or more power sources to provide power to the client device s . Non limiting examples of power source include single use power sources rechargeable power sources and or power sources developed from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material.

The client device s includes an operating system such as the Android operating system. The operating system controls operations of the components of the client device s . For example the operating system facilitates the interaction of communications client with processors memory network interface storage device s input device output device and power source . As illustrated in communications client includes communications module . Each of communications client and communications module typically includes program instructions and or data that are executable by the client device s . For example in one embodiment communications module includes instructions causing the communications client executing on the client device s to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure.

In some example embodiments communications client and or communications module form a part of the operating system executing on the client device s . In other embodiments communications client receives input from one or more of the input devices of the client device s . Communications client preferably receives audio and video information associated with a communications session from other client devices participating in the communication session.

In this example the communications client causes GUI to display a user selectable icon . Non limiting examples of the icon are a virtual or graphical button such as a key of a virtual keyboard a touch target a physical button of client device s or a button on an input device coupled to client device s such as a mouse button a button on a mobile device or a key of a keyboard. Of course GUI may include other graphical controls as well.

The GUI of is an example of the GUI of client device s of . However the graphical display of may be outputted using other devices. A client application supporting communications sessions is typically web based contained within an internet browser session. The application exposes a number of features to the user through the GUI. These graphically displayed features include a video display of one or more resources in the session. A chat feature is also provided including a chat history and a field where a user can input text to the chat conversation. GUI is also configured to display graphical images that are associated with resources in the session. For example graphical images may include images of agents currently participating in a contact center communications session. Exit button is provided so that the user may terminate the communications session as desired.

Through its API the App Engine provides the communications sessions access to resources on the Internet such as web services or other data. The App Engine retrieves web resources using the Resource Infrastructure Layer . The communications sessions also send and receive messages using the App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer . The App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer also supports a cache which is useful for temporary data or data copied from the datastore to the cache for high speed access. The Resource Infrastructure Layer also supports a file system and scheduling resources. An example of the App Engine is Google s App Engine. An example of the Resource Infrastructure Layer the Networking Infrastructure and the Operating System is Google s supporting infrastructure and operating system for its App Engine.

In the embodiment illustrated in the contact center supports one or more requesting client devices e.g. endpoints that may connect to the web server by the communications pathways through a communication network. The requesting client devices may be embodied by any of the numerous client devices described above with respect to . Likewise the agent client devices which may be used by customer support agents to connect to and interact with the requesting client devices may be embodied by any of the numerous client devices described above with respect to . Additionally a customer support agent may employ more than one agent client device e.g. a telephone and a desktop computer to resolve a support request. In this embodiment the communications pathways includes the Internet however it is not limited thereto. The communications pathways may be achieved by any computer based network. In some embodiments the communications link is analogous to the communications channel of .

The web server may be analogous to the server of . Thus as previously described the web server often comprises multiple physical servers e.g. communications server of for maintaining or hosting one or more communication sessions e.g. contact center communications session of . In the embodiment illustrated in the web server host one or more hangouts . As described above a hangout is a communications session that can support multimedia interactions. Each server can be a physically separate machine or it can be different processes running within the same physical machine. Additionally while depicted as a single device in in some embodiments web server includes a plurality of interconnected devices maintained at different physical locations. As mentioned the web server can connect to one or more client devices such as requesting client devices over communications pathways .

The contact center of includes Blenderbell which connects to and interacts with the web servers the hangouts Tinkerbell the CTI servers and the messaging application . Blenderbell may control many of the processes occurring at the contact center including that when a customer support request is received by the web server via communications pathways Blenderbell generates a session identifier such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL and or a Jabber ID JID for a new multimedia communications session such as a hangout where a requesting client device and an agent client device can ultimately interact. Blenderbell instructs the web server to generate based on input or requests from the requesting client device the new session. In some cases a requesting client device indicates a need for customer support which is communicated through the web server to Blenderbell . Blenderbell then instructs the web server to issue an invitation to the requesting client device to join an hangout which is completed upon the acceptance of the invitation. In an alternative the hangout may be established before the invitation is sent. Additionally Blenderbell may interact with and instruct other contact center resources such as an IVR to connect to established hangouts to help resolve customer support requests. When the requesting client device connects to the hangout it will await other resources to join the hangout such as the agent client device .

The telephony application of is associated with one or more hangouts via Tinkerbell . In some embodiments the telephony application can place a proxy telephone call that reaches and connects through the PSTN via communications pathways while associated with a hangout . In this embodiment the telephony application supports audio based communications through the PSTN at the hangout serving as a proxy for the hangout . In other embodiments the telephony application can place a telephone call that reaches and connects through the Internet while associated with a hangout and can support audio based communications through the Internet at the hangout e.g. Voice over IP VoIP serving as a proxy for the hangout. The telephony application may support one or more protocols e.g. RTP SIP H.323 to facilitate communications. Google Voice is a non limiting example of a telephony application that can associate with a hangout . The telephone call placed by the telephony application connects to the telephone exchange through communication pathways and a communications network. The communication networks may be any form of communication network including for example PSTN Internet VoIP PBX etc.

The contact center of also includes a telephone exchange which is configured to connect with one or more telephone devices over the communications pathways through communication networks. In some embodiments the communications pathways form a link connected by the PSTN. In other embodiments the communications pathways may be any link connected by the Internet. The telephone exchange may be a PBX a softswitch or the like. In the telephone exchange connects to and interacts with agent client devices . For example upon receiving a telephone call over the communications pathways the telephone exchange can identify an agent client device that is available to and capable of resolving the customer support request associated with the telephone call and subsequently route and connect the telephone call to the available agent client device . The telephone exchange may support one or more protocols e.g. RTP SIP H.323 to facilitate connections and communications.

The telephone exchange may include one or more joint queues or buffers that store information prioritizing the telephone calls placed from client devices or telephony application . Since the queues join the calls from both sources the joint queues permit the coordinated prioritization and processing of the hangout based multimedia requests and the non web requests originating from client devices . The telephone calls from telephony application may act as a proxy in this manner for processing through the queue leading to an agent client device connecting to the hangout either through Tinkerbell and telephony application and or directly to the hangout through a data connection. is an example of one or more joint queues that may be included at the telephone exchange for storing information prioritizing the telephone calls placed from client devices or telephony application . Joint queues may temporarily hold telephone calls placed from client device or telephony application until an agent is available to provide customer support. In some embodiments the joint queues prioritize telephone calls based on the time the call was received by the telephone exchange using a first in first out FIFO method etc. In arrow points to the next telephone call to be routed to an available agent. Of course any conceivable method of prioritizing telephone calls in the joint queue may be used. Additionally in some embodiments each joint queue may be associated with a specific skill set needed to resolve the customer support request. For example one joint queue may be associated with telephone calls placed from various sources requesting support from an engineering department while another joint queue be associated with phone calls requesting support from a legal department.

Additionally the telephone exchange may include one or more buffers or queues for storing information identifying agent client devices e.g. agent identifiers that are available to provide customer support. In some embodiments agent identifiers are added to a buffer or queue when an agent client device becomes available to provide support and are removed from a buffer or queue when the telephone exchange connects the agent client device to a customer support request i.e. becomes unavailable to provide further support. A queue or buffer may function in a first in first out FIFO method.

Each buffer or queue may be associated with a specific customer support skill set. Thus customer support requests requiring a specific skill set to resolve the service request can be routed to an agent possessing the required skill set by matching the requested service with the appropriate queue. As an example an agent identifier at the top of the queue indicates the next agent client device to be connected to an incoming call requiring the specific skill set associated with the queue. depicts a non limiting example of the queues that may be included in the telephone exchange . In the example of the telephone exchange includes separate queues for storing agent identifiers for agents skilled in resolving legal technical and financial customer support requests. The pointer indicates the next available agent in a particular queue. The queues described in this example are not intended to be limiting thus any number of queues may be maintained for any desired department or skill set. The queues of may be used in combination with one or more joint queues such as the joint queues of to route telephone calls to available customer support agents.

Returning to the contact center also includes one or more CTI servers . The CTI servers are connected to and interact with the telephone exchange and Blenderbell . In the embodiment depicted by the CTI servers monitor the telephone exchange . For example the CTI servers can monitor the connections established by the telephone exchange . In an alternative embodiment the CTI servers include one or more buffers or queues for storing information identifying available agent client devices or telephone calls in accordance with the description above including the description of . As telephone calls are connected to agents the CTI server informs Blenderbell of the event. Individually or in combination the telephone exchange the CTI server and or Blenderbell distinguishes telephone calls originating from telephone devices and telephony application . The telephone calls from client devices are permitted to connect to agent client devices without the need for messaging action to occur. When a proxy telephone call is connected to agent client device it is identified by data information carried with the call. In the case of a PSTN call the information may be in any permitted form such as callerID Automatic Number Identification ANI etc. In the case of a VoIP call the information may be in any permitted form such as header data meta data etc.

As mentioned above such information is maintained when the call is first originated. When Blenderbell is informed of the identifying information it associates the information with the hangout and transmits the information to a messaging application . The messaging application subsequently transmits a message to the agent client device connected to the proxy telephone call containing the session or room identifier e.g. URL JID and the like of the hangout associated with the proxy telephone call. Thus the customer support agent using the agent client device may connect to the hangout associated with the proxy telephone call by directing a browser or other application to connect to hangout. For example the agent may direct a browser to the URL of the hangout. In some embodiments the agent receives audio via the proxy telephone call and may mute or silence any audio transmitted through the hangout . In other embodiments the agent receives audio as well as other forms of stimuli via the hangout and may mute or silence audio transmitted through the proxy telephone call. In some embodiments the agent can dynamically change between receiving audio through the proxy telephone call and receiving audio through the hangout .

The messaging application in the contact center of is connected to and interacts with Blenderbell and the agent client devices . In this embodiment the messaging application transmits messages from Blenderbell to the agent client devices . The messaging application may support text messaging such as Short Messaging Service SMS and or Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Email and the like. In this embodiment the messaging application transmits the session identifier of a hangout associated with a particular customer support request to an agent client device . In some cases the message is an invitation sent to the email of the agent. Thereafter the agent client device may connect to the hangout identified by the session identifier. Google Mail or Gmail is another non limiting example of the messaging application . In some instances the invitation must be accepted to establish the connection to the hangout in other cases the messaging application may be automatically processed by applications at the agent client devices to establish the connection to hangout .

Step Receive multimedia support request. In step a multimedia contact center such as the contact center depicted in receives a customer support request. In this embodiment of the customer support request transmitted from a requesting client to the web server via the communications pathways . The communications pathways may be the Internet or any other computer based network.

Step Generate identifier associated with multimedia support request. After the customer support request is received at step the method proceeds to step where an identifier associated with the multimedia support request session identifier is generated. In the embodiment of the web server communicates reception of the customer support request to Blenderbell . Thereafter Blenderbell generates an identifier such as a URL or JID that can be used to identify a multimedia communications session for resolving the customer support request. In this embodiment the multimedia communications session is a hangout . When the identifier is a URL for example the identifier may describe a particular location or address of the hangout at the web server . The identifier may be a selectable link e.g. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP .

Step Transmit invitation to participate in multimedia communications session. After generating the session identifier at step an invitation to participate in the multimedia communications session is transmitted to the source of the customer support request. With respect to the contact center of Blenderbell passes the generated session identifier to the web server . Thereafter the web server invites the requesting client via communications pathways to participate in a hangout . In some embodiments the invitation is an Email or text message that includes the session identifier of the hangout .

Step Establish multimedia communications session. In the example process of the multimedia communications session is not established until the source of the customer support request accepts the invitation to participate. Thus in the contact center of the web server does not establish a hangout associated with the session identifier until the requesting client accepts the invitation of step . In one example accepting the invitation is effectuated by selecting or directing a web browser to the URL associated with a hangout . In alternative embodiment multimedia communications session may be established before the source of the request accepts the invitation to participate. For example Blenderbell instructs the web server to establish a hangout associated with an identifier before the requesting client accepts the invitation to the hangout . The sequencing of the establishment of the hangout may be variable. For example the hangout may be established before the invitation is accepted. In some cases the hangout is completed upon the acceptance of the invitation.

Step Instruct telephony application to place telephone call. Once the multimedia communications session has been established at step a telephony application associated with the multimedia communications session is instructed to place a telephone call to the contact center. Returning to the example of once a hangout has been established and the requesting client is connected to and able to interact with the hangout the telephony application is instructed to place a telephone call to the contact center via communications pathways . In an embodiment instructing the telephony application is accomplished by Blenderbell identifying and transmitting a telephone number to Tinkerbell . Tinkerbell which is associated with the hangout and functions as a bridge between the hangout and the telephony application instructs the telephony application to place the telephone call using the telephone number received from Blenderbell . Thereafter the telephony application uses the telephone number to call the contact center via communications pathways .

Step Receive telephone call. At step the contact center receives the telephone call placed in step . In the embodiment of the telephone exchange receives the telephone call placed by the telephony application via the communications pathways . As described the communications pathways may connect devices over the PSTN and or the Internet.

Step Route and connect telephone call through exchange to an available endpoint. After the telephone call is received at step the call is routed and connected to an available endpoint. Returning to the embodiment of the telephone exchange and or the CTI server route and connect the telephone call to an available agent client device . As described in accordance with one or more queues may be maintained for storing identifiers indicating agent client devices that are available to provide customer support. As mentioned each queue may be associated with a specific customer support skill set. A telephone call received by the telephone exchange may be connected to an agent identifier identifying an available agent client device in a queue associated with a skill set necessary to provide the requested support. In these embodiments the telephone number dialed by the telephony application at step may indicate a specific queue to route the telephone call through.

Step Monitor exchange to identify the endpoint connected to the telephone call. In step the exchange is monitored to identify the endpoint that the telephone call is connected with. Referring to the contact center of the CTI server monitors the telephone exchange to identify the agent client device that is connected to the telephone call in step .

Step Join multimedia communications session. After the endpoint is connected to the telephone call the endpoint joins the multimedia communications session in step . For example in some embodiments of the contact center of the CTI server transmits to Blenderbell the agent identifier associated with the agent client device connected to the telephone call. Thereafter Blenderbell associates the agent identifier with the hangout established in step . For example Blenderbell may associate the URL of the hangout with the agent identifier received from the CTI server . describe example methods of associating an endpoint e.g. an agent client device receiving a telephone call through the PSTN with a multimedia communications session e.g. a hangout associated with the telephone call. Thereafter Blenderbell instructs the messaging application to send a message to the agent client device that received the telephone call the message containing the session identifier generated in step . Once the message is received by the agent client device the agent client device may connect to and participate in the hangout associated with the session identifier.

Alternatively step may be accomplished by including the session identifier in header information or meta data of the telephone call. For example in some embodiments of the contact center of the telephony application supports VoIP and connects to the telephone exchange through the Internet. In these embodiments the telephony application transmits the session identifier of the multimedia communications session as header information when the telephone call is placed in step . For example a telephony application supporting SIP includes the URL or JID of a hangout in the FROM field of the header file. Upon receiving the telephone call including the header information at the telephone exchange the telephone exchange and or the CTI server can extract and pass the URL or JID of the hangout to the agent client device that received the telephone call at step . Thereafter the agent client device may connect to the hangout associated with the URL or JID. Alternatively the agent client device may include an application configured to extract the header and or session identifier including the URL or JID of the telephone call received in step allowing the agent client device to connect to the hangout without requiring receipt of a message including the session identifier. In other embodiments the agent client device may include an application configured to extract metadata of the telephone call that is linked to or indicative of the session identifier. In these embodiments the agent client device may access a database e.g. at the web server storing the association between the metadata and the session identifier to acquire the session identifier using the extracted metadata.

Step Determine specific skill necessary to resolve support request. The process begins at step by determining a specific customer support skill set necessary to resolve the customer support request. As an example the contact center of may include one or more resources e.g. communications resource s of able to extract and or analyze information about the nature of the support request from the requesting client . In some embodiments the resources are automated machines such as an IVR. In some embodiments the resources function based on a predetermined set of business rules. Once the appropriate information about the nature of the support request has been acquired the request is associated with a specific customer support skill set necessary to resolve the request. Often the specific skill set is only the first or most pertinent skill set needed to resolve the request and is used in combination with other skill sets to resolve the support request. In some embodiments the resource is able to determine the specific skill set. In other embodiments the resource transfers extracted information to Blenderbell and Blenderbell determines the specific skill set. When the method of operates in combination with the method of step may occur after the multimedia communications session is established step and before the telephony application is instructed to place the telephone call step .

Step Determine skill specific telephone number based on specific skill. After the specific contact center skill set is determined in step a skill specific telephone number is determined. In Blenderbell and or the web server maintain s a pool of known contact center telephone numbers. Similar to the queues described in each telephone number in the pool may be associated with a specific customer support skill set. Thus in this embodiment a telephone call placed to one of the skill specific telephone numbers is connected to an agent client device operated by an agent having the specific skill set. For example it may be determined at step that a customer support request requires engineering skills to resolve the request. In this example Blenderbell then identifies a telephone number from the pool of telephone numbers associated with the engineering department i.e. the skill specific telephone number in step . In some embodiments the telephone numbers in the pool and the specific skill associated therewith are maintained in one of a list chart table or the like that can be accessed by Blenderbell and or the web server and or the CTI server and or the telephone exchange . When the method of operates in combination with the method of step may occur after the multimedia communications session is established step and before the telephony application is instructed to place the telephone call step .

Step Associate identifier with skill specific telephone number. In step an identifier associated with the multimedia communications session session identifier established for the customer support request is associated with the skill specific telephone number determined in step . Generating a session identifier may be accomplished using the techniques described in step of . The generated session identifier is associated with the skill specific telephone number determined in step . In the contact center of Blenderbell associates the URL or other identifier of a hangout with the skill specific telephone number of step . In some embodiments Blenderbell maintains or accesses a list chart table or the like of hangout identifiers and associated skill specific telephone numbers. Again when the method of operates in combination with the method of step may occur after the multimedia communications session is established step and before the telephony application is instructed to place the telephone call step .

Step Place telephone call to skill specific telephone number. At step a telephone call is paced to the skill specific telephone number. Placing the telephone call of step may be realized using the techniques described with respect to step of . For example Blenderbell of transmits the skill specific telephone number to Tinkerbell . Tinkerbell instructs the telephony application to place the telephone call to the skill specific telephone number received from Blenderbell . Thereafter the telephony application uses the skill specific telephone number to call the contact center via communications pathways . In this embodiment the communications pathways includes the PSTN.

Step Receive telephone call. At step the contact center receives the telephone call placed in step . Receiving the telephone call of step may be realized using the techniques described with respect to step of . For example the telephone exchange receives the telephone call placed by the telephony application via the communications pathways .

Step Route and connect telephone call to next available endpoint associated with specific skill. After the telephone call is received at step the call is routed and connected to an available endpoint associated with the specific skill. Again step may be realized using the techniques described with respect to step of . Thus the telephone exchange and or the CTI server routes and connects the telephone call to an available agent client device . In this embodiment the telephone call may be routed to the next available agent client device operated by an agent possessing the specific skill. The telephone call may be routed based on the skill specific telephone number through one of the queues described in accordance with . As described above one or more buffers or queues may be maintained for storing information agent client devices e.g. agent identifiers that are available to provide customer support. In some embodiments agent identifiers are added to a buffer or queue when an agent client device becomes available to provide support and are removed from a buffer or queue when the telephone exchange connects the agent client device to a customer support request i.e. becomes unavailable to provide further support. Each buffer or queue may be associated with a specific customer support skill set. Thus customer support requests requiring a specific skill set to resolve the service request can be routed to an agent possessing the required skill set by matching the requested service with the appropriate queue. As an example an agent identifier at the top of the queue indicates the next agent client device to be connected to an incoming call requiring the specific skill set associated with the queue. depicts a non limiting example of the queues that may be included in the telephone exchange . In the example of the telephone exchange includes separate queues for storing agent identifiers for agents skilled in resolving legal technical and financial customer support requests. The pointer indicates the next available agent in a particular queue. The queues described in this example are not intended to be limiting thus any number of queues may be maintained for any desired department or skill set.

Step Report connection of telephone call to endpoint. In step the connection of the telephone call to the endpoint is reported. Step may be realized using the techniques described with respect to step of . For example the CTI server monitors the telephone exchange to identify the agent client device that is connected to the telephone call in step . Thereafter the CTI server transmits the agent identifier and the skill specific telephone number to Blenderbell .

Step Match endpoint to identifier based on skill specific phone number. In the event that the connected call is identified as a proxy call in step the endpoint that was connected to the telephone call is matched to a multimedia session in hangout . In the contact center of Blenderbell accesses the list chart table or the like associating hangout identifier to skill specific telephone number and matches the agent identifier to the hangout identifier.

Step Send endpoint message containing identifier. In step the endpoint is sent a message containing the session identifier and thus may connect to the multimedia communications session. Step may be accomplished using certain techniques described with respect to step of . For example Blenderbell of may instruct the messaging application to send a message to the agent client device that received the telephone call the message containing the session identifier. Once the message is received by the agent client device the agent client device may connect to and participate in the hangout associated with the session identifier. Thus the agent client device that received the telephone call placed in step is connected to the hangout that initiated the telephone call. Additionally once the customer support request has been resolved the skill specific telephone number may be returned to the pool of telephone numbers to be used again in a subsequent support request.

Step Generate new number. The process begins at step by generating a new number. In some embodiments the number of digits of the new number is not limited. In the contact center of the new number may be a telephone number. The new telephone number may be generated randomly e.g. by using a random number generator or by spoofing a known telephone number. For example Blenderbell may generate a new telephone number at any of steps and of .

Step Associate new number with identifier. In step the new number is associated with an identifier. In some embodiments the identifier be a unique identifier associated with a multimedia communications session or session identifier. In these embodiments the multimedia communications session may be existing and ongoing. Alternatively the multimedia communications session may not yet be established. Returning to the example contact center of Blenderbell associates the new telephone number generated in step with the URL or JID of a hangout established or to be established to resolve a customer support request. In this regard the telephone number and telephone call acts as a proxy for the multimedia session. In some cases a list chart table or the like that associates the URL and the new telephone number is maintained that can be accessed by Blenderbell and or the web server and or the CTI server and or the telephone exchange . The list chart table or the like may be maintained in a computer readable medium.

Step Place telephone call as new number. In step a proxy telephone call is placed that identifies the new number as the calling number. Automatic Number Identification ANI caller ID or the like may be used to realize step . In the contact center of Blenderbell transmits the new number to Tinkerbell . Tinkerbell instructs the telephony application to place a proxy telephone call to the contact center. Thereafter the telephony application calls the contact center via communications pathways . In this some embodiment the communications pathways includes the PSTN.

Step Receive telephone call. The proxy telephone call is received at step . Step may be realized using the techniques described in step of and or step of .

Step Detect new number. In step the new number is detected extracted identified etc. from the proxy telephone call. ANI caller ID or the like may be used to realize step . In the contact center of the CTI server and or the telephone exchange may detect the new number from the proxy telephone call.

Step Route and connect telephone call to next available endpoint. The proxy telephone call is routed and connected to an available endpoint in step . In the contact center of the telephone exchange and or the CTI server routes and connects the telephone call to an available agent client device . In this process the proxy telephone call and telephone calls client devices may be joined into a single or multiple buffers or queues without requiring separate processing. Each telephone call regardless of its origin as a web based service request from requesting clients or a telephone request from telephone client devices may be processed in a FIFO or other processing scheme. These calls may be routed through one of the queues as described in accordance with . In some embodiments a specific skill is determined e.g. step of prior to placing the telephone call and the telephone call is routed through one of the queues based on a specific skill necessary to resolve the support request.

Step Report connection of telephone call to endpoint. Connection of a proxy telephone call to the available endpoint is reported in step . Step may be realized using the techniques described in step of and or step of . For example the CTI server monitors the telephone exchange to identify the agent client device that is connected to the telephone call in step . Thereafter the CTI server transmits the agent identifier and the new number to Blenderbell .

Step Match endpoint to identifier based on new number. In step the endpoint that was connected to the telephone call is matched to the session identifier via the new number. Recall that the session identifier is associated with the new number in step . In the contact center of Blenderbell accesses the list chart table or the like associating hangout identifier to new telephone number and matches the agent identifier to the hangout identifier.

Step Send endpoint message containing identifier. In step the endpoint is sent a message containing the session identifier and thus may connect to the multimedia communications session. Step may be accomplished using certain techniques described with respect to step of . For example Blenderbell of may instruct the messaging application to send a message to the agent client device that received the telephone call the message containing the session identifier. Once the message is received by the agent client device the agent client device may connect to and participate in the hangout associated with the session identifier. Thus the agent client device that received the telephone call placed in step is connected to the hangout that initiated the telephone call.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and at least one and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of the term at least one followed by a list of one or more items for example at least one of A and B is to be construed to mean one item selected from the listed items A or B or any combination of two or more of the listed items A and B unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or example language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

