---

title: Method and system for providing recommendations using location information
abstract: The present invention is directed to system and method for providing recommendation to users using location information. In various embodiments, the present invention provides system that integrates information from user profiles and user-generated content, which can be obtained from a number of social networks, and merchants, to generate recommendations using location information in conjunction with the context of user profiles from various data sources and/or social networks. In certain embodiments, user generated-contents, user profiles and relationships thereof are collected, integrated, analyzed, and stored to allow them to be useful and usable in making recommendations. There are other embodiments as well.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621600&OS=09621600&RS=09621600
owner: PORTAURA GROUP
number: 09621600
owner_city: Union City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130226
---
The present invention is directed to system and method for providing recommendation to users using location information.

With the advent of the Internet and social network people are used to share information and receiving time and location sensitive information and recommendations. For example social networks such as Facebook and Google now utilize location information to make information sharing relevant. Similarly location sensitive information can be vastly valuable to merchants as merchants can benefit and profit from pushing out context sensitive information to potential customers who are near their business locations.

Unfortunately existing techniques have been inadequate as explained below. Therefore it is desirable to have new and improved techniques for providing recommendations.

The present invention is directed to system and method for providing recommendation to users using location information. In various embodiments the present invention provides system that integrates information from user profiles which can be obtained from a number of social networks and merchants to generate recommendations using location information in conjunction with the context of user profiles from various data sources and or social networks. In certain embodiments user profiles and relationships thereof are collected integrated analyzed and stored to allow them to be useful and usable in making recommendations. There are other embodiments as well.

The present invention is directed to system and method for providing recommendation to users using location information. In various embodiments the present invention provides system that integrates information from merchants and user profiles and user generated contents which can be obtained from a number of social networks to generate recommendations using location information in conjunction with the context of user profiles from various data sources and or social networks. In certain embodiments user profiles and relationships thereof are collected integrated analyzed and stored to allow them to be useful and usable in making recommendations. There are other embodiments as well.

The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and to incorporate it in the context of particular applications. Various modifications as well as a variety of uses in different applications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to a wide range of embodiments. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments presented but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without necessarily being limited to these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.

The reader s attention is directed to all papers and documents which are filed concurrently with this specification and which are open to public inspection with this specification and the contents of all such papers and documents are incorporated herein by reference. All the features disclosed in this specification including any accompanying claims abstract and drawings may be replaced by alternative features serving the same equivalent or similar purpose unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus unless expressly stated otherwise each feature disclosed is one example only of a generic series of equivalent or similar features.

Furthermore any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. Section 112 Paragraph 6. In particular the use of step of or act of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 Paragraph 6.

Please note if used the labels left right front back top bottom forward reverse clockwise and counter clockwise have been used for convenience purposes only and are not intended to imply any particular fixed direction. Instead they are used to reflect relative locations and or directions between various portions of an object.

In various embodiments social network data are collected through a data discovery and analysis process where the following processes are performed 

In the geo location based social aggregation and discovery process user profiles and location based information are collected from various sources. Depending on the application a user profile may include in addition to basic user information user generated contents such as blog reviews preferences and or others. For example a user may through a mobile app installed on a mobile device authorize data collection through which her social network information contacts preference location and or other types of information are collected. A user may use a mobile app to share her location e.g. Facebook check in Foursquare check in . This user may be connected to more than one social networks and information from different social networks and the relevant contacts thereof are obtained from these social networks. For example a user on Facebook may have various interests that are shared with her friends. Consumers with these interests that may be relevant to merchants are discovered and aggregated.

Once user data are obtained they are stored and or cached in a social data warehouse. In an embodiment user data are stored at three cache levels which allow for performance scalability and flexibility. At the first level data is stored at a main memory which is fast. At the second level data are stored at a memory cache. At the third level data are stored at a hard disk based storage. Depending on the application what kind of data stored at where can be customized.

The stored user data are analyzed and their social relevance thereof is determined. To provide an example various types of data analysis are described below.

Social aggregation and discovery processes are performed with the help of location information. Depending on the application one or more types of social networking services are connected from which relevant information is retrieved. For example it is possible to obtain user profiles from different types of social networking services which can be 

Various embodiments of the present invention leverage public access Application Programming Interfaces APIs from these social networking services to retrieve geo tagged content elements. For example when a user uploads a piece of content to a social networking service via her smartphone she may choose to attach the current GPS coordinates e.g. latitude longitude from her phone signifying that the content is created at that location. This can be applied to both textual and graphical contents. For example the user may upload a photo to Facebook where the photo is tagged with GPS coordinates for the location of photo taken. In another example when the user visits a coffee shop she may check into this coffee shop with Foursquare along with the GPS coordinates of the coffee shop.

The location information and social network information are aggregated. More specifically collecting data from these social networks is achieved through an aggregation module which can be referred to as the Aggregator. The Aggregator retrieves social data through a connecting module which can be referred to as Connectors. For example each connector is responsible for interfacing with a single social network. In an embodiment a connector can be configured to communicate appropriate social network to perform the following functionalities 

The aggregator architecture is extensible which makes adding additional data sources easy. To provide an example to support a new data source i.e. a new social network a new connector for that data source can be added.

Users in addition to being members of various SNS are connected to the aggregator module . For example users and are connected to the aggregator module through one or more communication interface and or gateways not shown in but shown as an example in . In certain embodiments user devices such as mobile phones are installed with an application that connects to the aggregator module . For example the application can be a mobile application referred to as MyShine. As an example both users and have MyShine installed on their mobile devices through which they send location and or other information to the aggregator module . In response to information received from the users the aggregator module obtains information associated with users and from their perspective networks. The aggregator module is connected to connector modules A B and C. As shown the connector module A is connected to SNS the connector module B is connected to SNS the connector module C is connected to SNS . For example the connector modules are specifically configured to interface between SNS and the aggregator module . In various embodiments the connector modules obtains information from SNS using user credentials e.g. user credentials supplied by MyShine users . For example users and may be registered users for one or more of the SNS and . The aggregator module depending on the application can obtain permissions from users to access their perspective user information stored at their SNS and the connector modules use the user information to access the respective SNS. For example users and are MyShine users and they access social network information through aggregator module which utilizes connector modules to access various social networks. Users and through the aggregation system may receive additional information from the SNS that are relevant. For example based on the location information of user the aggregator system may retrieve information of one or more users who may or may not be friends of users of SNS who are within a proximity of the user . It is to be appreciated that relevant information to a user can help discover new contacts and provide other location sensitive information.

The aggregator module as a part of an aggregation system can be access by both users and merchants. For example users may receive recommendation and or other useful and location sensitive information from generated by processor module and the information can be obtained by the aggregator module . In addition merchants can access the aggregator module as well. For example merchants access the aggregator module through communication interface and or communication gateway. As shown in merchant is connected to the aggregator module . Since merchants may use information differently from users merchants can access the aggregator module in different ways. For example the merchant may access location sensitive and up to date information from the aggregator module through web pages mobile applications and or others. As an example the merchant may request an update from the aggregator module from time to time related to customers. The aggregator module may access or otherwise perform actions on behalf of users and or merchants in response to 1 requests from users and or merchants or 2 a detection of an update of location and or other information by the users and or merchants.

The storage module is configured to store various types of information. For example the storage module can be configured to store computer executable instruction. In addition the storage module can be used to store cached information. In certain embodiments the storage module is configured as cache memory with multiple levels of storage type and implemented using different types of storage mediums. For example the storage module may have three level of storage storage A as level storage storage B as level storage the storage C as level storage. The access speed access frequency and storage size vary at each level and different storages are configured to storage different type of data as explained below. The user interface provides input output through which users can interact with the processor module . For example the user interface includes display and input devices thereby allowing users to change settings related to making recommendations.

Unlike conventional web sites which support web crawlers from search engines such as Google and Yahoo social networks do not allow web crawlers or robots to mine their content. This is because a social network contains a huge amount of inter related information elements and there is no established methodology to efficiently mining them. Therefore it is to be appreciated that the aggregator system according to embodiments of the present invention does not utilize traditional crawling strategy. Instead it operates on a real time on demand basis.

The social data warehouse for example shown in works for both consumers and businesses. To make information context sensitive and relevant GPS information is used. For example GPS information refers in general to location services which include satellite based location cellular tower triangulation and or WIFI hotspot. For consumers a backend social aggregation service according to various embodiments of the present invention works in conjunction with a social app. In a specific embodiment the social app is a specially designed application that operates on mobile devices called MyShine. As an example functions of Myshine are described below 

For business users e.g. B M businesses a merchant portal is provided and used with the social aggregation services. For example the merchant portal can be AuraPortal with our backend social aggregation service 

MyShine users or merchants. In response to location updates from users or requests from merchants or other actions or activities the aggregation service retrieves relevant geo tagged information elements from various social networks.

In various embodiments the aggregated data is stored in a cloud based social data warehouse. For example specialized data warehouse is configured and referred to as AuraMesh.

Note that data aggregation happens on demand based on actions performed by end users and merchants. As a result the storage media is used very efficiently only the content needed by end users and merchants are retrieved and stored in the data warehouse.

Through users and contacts thereof a large set of data can be collected. For example through MyShine users and AuraPortal merchants the data aggregate service retrieves nearby social users and the content elements generated by them. From these social users information related to their friends favorite persons and potentially nearby users can be retrieved.

At step the user transmits a location update to the processor module . For example the processor module is implemented as an AuraMesh module. For example the location update can be an automatic location update generated by the mobile device of the user when the user changes from one location to another. The location update can also be a part of a user request. For example the user upon entering into a new location wants to find out what is interesting around the area and to do so the user uses a mobile application to send the request that embeds the location update to the processor module . It is to be appreciated that the location update can be in other forms as well.

Once the processor module receives the location update it processes the location update. The processor module identifies user and her location. Based on the user profile of the user and her location the processor module determines whether information to be used for this location update has been previously retrieved within a predetermined time period. For example if information needed to serve the user is stored at the storage within a predetermined time period e.g. 5 minutes 10 minutes or other predetermined time period processor module obtains the information from the storage at step A. On the other hand if the information is not available at the storage which can be unavailable or outdated according to the predetermined time period the processor module requests for the information from the SNS at step B. In various embodiments the processor module access SNS through aggregator module and connector modules. For example the processor module accesses the information stored at the SNS by using user credential s or permission given by the user. In a specific embodiment depending on the social networks that the user signed up with the processor module may obtain information from one or more of the SNS. For example if user has signed into an SNS the processor module can obtain from the SNS both information related to the user s contact and information of other users who are within a proximity of this user if this user is not signed into the SNS the processor module can still obtain information of other users who are within a proximity of this user but unable to obtain contacts of the user from the SNS. It is to be understood that access and information available is different from user and user . For example user is registered with the processor module and thus obtains information from the SNS through the processor module . As shown if user is a registered user of the SNS the users may also access SNS directly. In contrast user is not registered to the processor module and the user has no access to the processor module and can only access the SNS directly. For example the user is registered with the SNS on which the user is connected. The processor module may obtain information related to both user and the user from the SNS .

The processor module receives information from the SNS at step . The processor module processes the information and generates recommendations. For example the recommendation is generated based on location and relevance of the information. More detailed description of this process is described below. In addition to generating recommendations using the information retrieved from the SNS the processor module also updates the social data warehouse with the information. The processor module then sends the recommendation information to the user at step . Depending on the application other processes might be performed as well. For example the processor module may send an update to the merchant in response to the user request thereby allowing the merchant to react.

At step the merchant sends a request for customer user update to the aggregator module which initiates a process for retrieving and or processing data from data sources. In certain embodiments the processor module initiates the processing of updating information for the merchant . As explained above the processor module can be implement as an AuraMesh module described above. For example the processor module periodically sends update to the merchant . Once the processor module initiates the process it determines whether information needed for this process has been previously retrieved within a predetermined time period. For example if information needed to serve the merchant is stored at the storage within a predetermined time period e.g. 5 minutes 10 minutes or other predetermined time period the processor module obtain the information from the storage at step A. In various embodiments the information includes location distance information. For example a merchant through the information knows its distance from a user. On the other hand if the information is not available at the storage which can be unavailable or outdated according to the predetermined time period the processor module requests for the information from the SNS at step B. Depending on the specific application the processor module may obtain information from one or more of the SNS through the aggregation connectors A C.

The processor module receives information from the SNS at step . The processor module processes the information. Using this information the processor module can generates recommendation for users and reports for merchant . For example the processor module generates user recommendation which can be specifically related to the merchant and sends the recommendation to users at step A. The a processor module generates reporting information and sends the information to the merchant at step . Depending on the application the merchant may use the report information to generate user specific merchant information such as coupons merchandise information and or others.

It is to be appreciated that by using aggregated geo tagged contents the discovery service according to embodiments of the present invention allows consumer and end users to 

In addition by using aggregated and or geo tagged contents the discovery service according to embodiments of the present invention allows B M businesses to 

During the social aggregation process geo tagged contents are retrieved from various social network services which can be major social networking services SNS around the given GPS coordinates. When there are a large number of users at the same location and these users request aggregation content within a predetermined time period e.g. within 2 minutes the same geo tagged contents from SNS data sources are not retrieved repeatedly. It is to be appreciated that to avoid repetitive retrieval of the same content these contents are stored in cache to avoid overloading on the SNS servers.

In various embodiments a multiple layer caching system is provided. The multiple layer caching system is configured to serve millions of concurrent social users simultaneously. In various embodiments the multi layer caching mechanism employs the techniques of geo hash which allows geographical regions to be divided into rectangular grid. For example a large grid can cover thousands of miles whereas a small grid covers a few hundred yards. Each geo hash has a unique global ID and identifies a unique region in the world. In a specific embodiment a multiple layer caching system uses geo hash as an identifier to storing geo tagged data.

Furthermore geo hash can be used as keys for data partitioning. For example the system can store the geo hashes covering California in one database and the geo hashes covering New York in another database. This allows a data warehouse to scale vertically. As users and content increase the system can divide data partitioning into smaller geo hashes. For example the state of California can be divided into geo hashed and stored in multiple databases geo hash for San Francisco in one database and geo hash for Log Angeles in another database.

For performance scalability and availability the AuraMesh social data warehouse employees multiple layers of storage and caching mechanisms. The layers are designed based on a combination of speed storage capacity and access frequency.

Content elements are stored in different layers depending on their persistency requirements as well as whether they can be shared across different MyShine users. The following table illustrates some key content elements and their storage mechanism 

The app server s main memory is the fastest and most precious. The most frequently used content items such as MyShine user s state information are stored at the app server. Memory cache is fast and it can be used to store frequently changed content which can be for example a list of social users nearby. Since people move around often this list is highly dynamic so the cache duration typically lasts only several minutes. Persistent data elements on the other hand are stored in the NOSQL database. Historical data is stored in the social data warehouse which is only used for analysis and reporting not for runtime data retrieval.

It is to be appreciated that multi layer storage caching structure provides various advantages which include 

The social data warehouse AuraMesh contains data analysis algorithms aimed for computing social relevance. Depending on the application relevance refers to 

In various embodiments an analytical framework according to embodiments of the present invention leverages the following elements to compute the relevance 

AuraMesh computes the relevance score by analyzing data from different data sources and the compute the total score by adding up the weight in each relevance factor. For example assuming when computing the relevance score between Joe and Jane there are two matching factors 

Now assuming the weight for the friend factor is 10 and the weight for the interest factor is 5 then the relevance score is 10 2 5 25.

A recommendation threshold score can be configured to indicate whether they should be recommended to each other. In this case if the threshold score is less than or equal to 25 Joe and Jane will receive recommendations with descriptions of the matching factors.

An important aspect in computing the relevance score is the factor weights. Factor weights can be predetermined and or configured dynamically system wide or per user basis thereby satisfying requirements from different users and businesses in a variety of industries.

In addition analysis algorithms can also automatically adjust factor weights with a feedback loop mechanism. For example when a user does not think the recommended content is relevant or interesting she may

In various embodiments a social recommendation engine alerts a social user when interesting people or events occur near the user s current location. Recommendation may be send to one or both parties based on the definition of their recommendation threshold scores respectively.

As an example the following recommendation factors can be used in deciding whether to alert the user that another social user of interest is nearby 

Depending on the application additional factors may be easily added into the overall computation. For example these factors can be home town birthday colleges and or others. For example the total social relevance score is computed by summing up the weight of each factor multiplied by the appropriate multiplicity e.g. 2 because two shared friends . When the computed social relevance score is equal to or above the recommendation threshold system wide default or user specified an alert will be sent to the user.

Finally alerts for social recommendations are implemented as non intrusive push notifications. It is to be appreciated that a user s privacy concern is fully observed. For example user A may turn off push notifications completely and user B may choose not to expose her location at all.

According to embodiments of the present invention an analytical framework computes the relevance scores between merchants and consumers. Among other things the goal is to find suitable matches between merchants and consumers so that merchants may deliver targeted messages to consumers e.g. coupons and promotions .

As an example the following recommendation factors can be used in deciding whether to recommend a consumer to the merchant as a potential customer 

Additional factors may be easily added into the overall computation. For example these factors can be a consumer s age sex education and or other demographic data. The total relevance score can be computed by summing up the weight of each factor multiplied by the appropriate multiplicity. When the computed relevance score is equal to or above the recommendation threshold system wide default or merchant specified the consumer will be recommended to the merchant.

By aggregating rich geo tagged social data from multiple social networks AuraMesh analyzes demographic contextual and behavioral consumer data to discover and recommend potential customers to merchants.

Once the potential customers are identified the merchant may engage in behaviorally targeted advertising with one to one messages to consumers at the exact time and place. As an example for a bakery marketing messages can be delivered in the following fashion 

This will deliver a 40 coupon message to the top 200 people within 500 meters of the storefront at 4 PM everyday when the bakery needs to empty its current day stock . For best user experience MyShine can provide consumer privacy settings to prevent flooding of ads 

While the above is a full description of the specific embodiments various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used. Therefore the above description and illustrations should not be taken as limiting the scope of the present invention which is defined by the appended claims.

