---

title: Automated testing of a direct network-to-network connection
abstract: A direct network connection is established between a customer network and a service provider network. Computing resources are then provisioned in the service provider network in an automated fashion. The network connection between the service provider network and the customer network is also configured such that data can be transmitted from one of the computing resources to another one of the computing resources by way of at least a portion of the customer network. Test data is then transmitted from one computing resource to another computing resource by way of at least a portion of the customer network. One or more test results are then generated based upon characteristics of the transmission of the test data from one resource to the other resource by way of the customer network. The resources may be de-provisioned in an automated fashion following completion of the testing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276812&OS=09276812&RS=09276812
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09276812
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Network based service providers exist that allow customers to purchase and utilize computing resources such as virtual machine instances on a permanent or as needed basis. In addition to virtual machine instances these types of services typically allow customers to purchase and utilize other types of computing resources. For example customers might be permitted to purchase access to and use of block data storage services database services networking resources and other types of computing resources. Utilizing these computing resources as building blocks customers of such a service can create custom solutions that provide various types of functionality such as application hosting backup and storage content delivery World Wide Web Web hosting enterprise information technology IT solutions database services and others.

In order establish private dedicated connectivity between a customer network and a service provider network providing computing resources such as those described above a direct network to network connection might be established between the customer network and the service provider network. Utilizing such a direct network to network connection between the customer network and the service provider network might provide various benefits to the customer including but not limited to reducing bandwidth costs by lowering the amount of data transmitted over the Internet providing consistent network performance and providing private connectivity to computing resources within the service provider network.

It can sometimes be challenging however to test the connectivity and performance of a direct network to network connection between a customer network and a service provider network. This challenge often stems from the fact that the individuals provisioning the direct network to network connection e.g. individuals at a telecommunications company are not the same individuals that will configure and utilize the computing resources provided by the service provider. The individuals provisioning the connection therefore might be unfamiliar with the configuration and use of the computing resources provided by the service provider. Moreover testing the connectivity and performance of a direct network to network connection between a customer network and a service provider network often requires that trained individuals be present at both sides of the connection i.e. one individual located at the customer premises and one individual located at the service provider premises . Having trained individuals at both sides of a network connection is not however always practical or economical.

The following detailed description is directed to technologies for automated testing of a network to network connection. Utilizing the technologies described herein a customer of a service provider can test the connectivity and performance of a direct network to network connection between a customer network and a service provider network in an automated fashion and without the requirement discussed above that service personnel be present on the service provider side of the direct network to network connection. Moreover in addition to testing the direct network to network connection a customer can also utilize aspects of the functionality described herein to test connectivity and performance of various portions of network connection between the service provider network and the customer network.

According to one aspect presented herein a computer implemented mechanism is disclosed for testing a direct network to network connection between a customer network and a service provider network. In particular portions of a network connection between a customer network and a service provider network can be tested by first provisioning a first computing resource and a second computing resource in the service provider network. The first and second resources might be virtual machine instances or other types of computing resources that are located in virtual private clouds VPCs in the service provider network for example. The first and second resources might also be other types of computing resources located within or outside of VPCs such as publically accessible computing resources like data storage resources or database resources. Other types of resources might also be utilized. The first and second resources can be provisioned in the service provider network in an automated fashion and without human interaction.

The network connection between the customer network and the service provider network is then configured such that data can be transmitted from the first resource to the second resource by way of at least a portion of the customer network. To accomplish this virtual local area networks VLANs may be provisioned between an endpoint router in the service provider network and a customer side router in the customer network. For example one VLAN might be provisioned on the network connection for use in transmitting test data from the first resource within the service provider network to the customer network. Another VLAN might also be provisioned on the network connection for use in transmitting test data from the customer network to the second resource within the service provider network. The VLANs can be provisioned in an automated fashion and without human interaction. The customer router might also be configured to route network traffic received on one of the VLANs onto the other VLAN.

In order to perform a test of the connection between the service provider network and the customer network test data is transmitted from the first resource in the service provider network out the endpoint router and over the first VLAN to the customer side router. The test data might be a request to write data from the first resource to the second resource for example. Alternately the test data might be a request to read data from the second resource. Other types of test data might also be utilized.

The customer side router then forwards the received traffic out the second VLAN to the second resource in the service provider network. One or more test results such as test results describing the connectivity and or performance of the connection between the customer network and the service provider network may then be generated based upon the characteristics of the transmission of the test data from the first resource to the second resource in the service provider network by way of the customer network. Once the testing has been completed the resources in the service provider network and the VLANs may be de provisioned in an automated fashion and without human intervention. Additional details regarding the various components and processes described above for automated testing of a network to network connection between a customer network and a service provider network will be presented below with regard to .

It should be appreciated that the subject matter presented herein may be implemented as a computer process a computer controlled apparatus a computing system or an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute on one or more computing devices those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that aspects of the subject matter described herein may be practiced on or in conjunction with other computer system configurations beyond those described herein including multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers handheld computers personal digital assistants e readers cellular telephone devices special purposed hardware devices network appliances and the like. As mentioned briefly above the embodiments described herein may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks may be performed by remote computing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and that show by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. The drawings herein are not drawn to scale. Like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures which may be referred to herein as a FIG. or FIGS. .

The service provider might also offer other types of resources for purchase and use by customers. For example the service provider might offer load balancing resources domain name service DNS resources VPC resources VLAN resources data storage resources networking resources database resources and other types of resources on a permanent or as needed basis. The service provider may charge a fee for operating the resources to the customer that creates and uses the resources . The service provider might utilize various pricing models to charge a customer for use of resources provided by the service provider. Utilizing the resources as building blocks customers of such a service provider can create custom solutions that provide various types of functionality such as application hosting backup and storage content delivery Web hosting enterprise IT solutions database services and others.

The resources described above may be provided in one particular implementation by one or more data centers not shown in operated by the service provider. As known to those skilled in the art data centers are facilities utilized to house and operate computer systems and associated components. Data centers also typically include redundant and backup power communications cooling and security systems. The data centers might be located in geographically disparate locations and might also be connected to various other facilities such as the co location facility and various networks such as the Internet. In the environment shown in a service provider might operate one or more data centers configured to provide the resources described herein to its customers and other users.

The various resources described above might also be provisioned and de provisioned as needed in an automated fashion. For example a customer might submit a request to the service provider network to instantiate a new instance of a virtual machine. In response to receiving such a request a provisioning component or one or more other components within the service provider network might create the new instance of the virtual machine as requested by the customer. The customer may then be permitted to utilize the new instance of the virtual machine as desired. When the customer has finished using the virtual machine instance the customer may request that the virtual machine instance be de provisioned. In response thereto the provisioning component or another component in the service provider network may cause the virtual machine instance to be de provisioned. Other resources might also be provisioned and de provisioned in a similar manner. The service provider network might also provide functionality for automatically scaling and or de scaling resources based upon demand for the resources or other factors.

In some implementations some or all of the resources associated with a particular customer are configured for private use. For example some resources such as virtual machine instances might be created in a virtual private cloud VPC associated with the customer. In some implementations the service provider network also provides resources that are publically accessible. For example the service provider network might allow the use of virtual machine instances storage resources database resources and other types of resources that are directly accessible by way of a public network such as the Internet. The service provider network might also provide other types of resources that are accessible in other ways not specifically mentioned herein.

A service provider might also enable access to the purchased resources by way of a network referred to herein as the service provider network . The customers and other consumers of the service provider may access the resources on the service provider network over various types of network connections such as one or more wide area networks WANs like the Internet. For example customer devices A and B located on a network operated by a customer of the service provider referred to herein as the customer network might access the resources by way of the Internet or other types of network connections some of which will be described below.

Other types of networking technologies and topologies known in the art might also be utilized to connect the computing resources to remote customers and other users. It should be appreciated that combinations of such networks might also be utilized. In this regard it should be further appreciated that the network topology illustrated in and the other FIGS. has been greatly simplified for discussion purposes. Many other computing systems networking components network connections software components and other types of components might be utilized than have been illustrated in and the other FIGS. and described herein.

As discussed briefly above in order establish private dedicated connectivity between the customer network and the service provider network a direct network to network connection might be established between the customer network and the service provider network . For example certain telecommunications providers operate co location facilities that permit for a cross network connection between a service provider endpoint router owned and operated by the service provider and a customer side router owned and operated by a customer. In some implementations the service provider endpoint router and the customer side router are physically located in the same co location facility . In these implementations the cross network connection can be made directly between a port on the service provider endpoint router and a port on the customer side router . Other implementations might also be utilized.

Utilizing a direct network to network connection between a customer network and a service provider network such as that described above might provide various benefits to the customer including but not limited to reducing bandwidth costs by lowering the amount of data transmitted over the Internet providing consistent network performance and providing private connectivity to computing resources within the service provider network. The customer of the service provider might also realize other benefits not specifically mentioned herein through the use of the direct network to network connection .

As also mentioned above it can sometimes be challenging to test the connectivity and performance of a direct network to network connection between a customer network and a service provider network such as that described above. This challenge often stems from the fact that the individuals provisioning the direct network to network connection e.g. individuals at a telecommunications company are not the same individuals that will configure and utilize the resources available through the service provider network . The individuals provisioning the direct network to network connection therefore might be unfamiliar with the configuration and use of the resources provided by the service provider. Moreover testing the connectivity and performance of the direct network to network connection between a customer network and a service provider network often requires that trained individuals be present at both sides of the connection i.e. one individual located on the premises of the customer network and another individual located on the premises of the service provider network . Having trained individuals at both sides of a network connection is not however always practical or economical. The various mechanisms disclosed herein might address these and potentially other challenges of testing a direct network to network connection such as that described above.

In order to test the availability and performance of the direct network to network connection a network test component is provided in one embodiment disclosed herein. The network test component might be implemented as hardware as software or as a combination of hardware and software. The network test component is configured to receive a test request from an authorized customer representative from an administrator of the service provider network or from another authorized individual. Test parameters might also be specified with the test request that define aspects of the manner in which the test of the direct network to network connection is to be performed.

The network test component might provide an appropriate user interface such as a Web page through which a user can submit the test request and the test parameters . In other embodiments the network test component might provide an application programming interface API through which the test request and the test parameters can be submitted. Other types of interfaces for submitting a test request and or test parameters might also be provided. Additional details regarding the various test parameters that might be received and utilized to test the direct network to network connection will be provided below with regard to .

In response to receiving a test request and the test parameters the network test component is configured to provision resources A and B for use in testing the direct network to network connection . For example in one particular implementation illustrated in the network test component might utilize the provisioning component or one or more other components within the service provider network to provision a VPC A that includes one or more virtual machine instances A for use in testing the direct network to network connection .

The network test component might also utilize the provisioning component or one or more other components within the service provider network to provision a second VPC B that includes one or more other virtual machine instances B also for use in testing the direct network to network connection . As will be discussed in greater detail below the virtual machine instance A in the VPC A may be configured to transmit test data to the virtual machine instance B in the VPC B to test aspects of the operation of the direct network to network connection . The test data is routed through at least a portion of the customer network . Additional details regarding this process will be described below.

In another implementation illustrated in the network test component might utilize the provisioning component or one or more other components within the service provider network to provision a VPC A that includes one or more virtual machine instances A for use in testing the direct network to network connection . In this example the virtual machine instance A may be configured to transmit test data to one or more publically accessible resources in the service provider network to test aspects of the operation of the direct network to network connection .

For example the virtual machine instance A shown in might be configured to transmit read or write requests to a publically available data storage resource or a database resource in the service provider network . The test data is routed through at least a portion of the customer network . Additional details regarding this process will be described below. It should be appreciated that the various configurations shown in are merely illustrative and that other types of resources might be utilized to generate test data for testing the direct network to network connection in the manner disclosed herein.

In order to cause the test data to be routed through at least a portion of the customer network the network test component is also configured to provision VLANs A and B between the service provider endpoint router in the service provider network and the customer side router in the customer network . For example one VLAN A might be provisioned for use in transmitting the test data from the first resource A within the service provider network such as the virtual machine instance A to the customer side router on the customer network .

A second VLAN B might also be provisioned on the direct network to network connection for use in transmitting the test data from the customer side router through the service provider endpoint router and ultimately to the second resource B such as the virtual machine instance B or the publically accessible resources within the service provider network . Through the use of the provisioning component or one or more other components operating in the service provider network the VLANs A and B can be provisioned in an automated fashion and without human interaction. The customer side router might also be configured to route network traffic received on the VLAN A such as the test data onto the VLAN B.

In order to perform a test of the direct network to network connection between the service provider network and the customer network the resource A transmits the test data to the resource B. The test data is routed through the service provider endpoint router and over the VLAN A to the customer side router . For example the test data might be a request to write data from the resource A to the resource B. Alternately the test data might be a request to read data from the resource B. Other types of test data might also be utilized. The customer side router then forwards the test data onto the second VLAN B to the service provider endpoint router . The service provider endpoint router and potentially other components in the service provider network then cause the test data to be routed to the resource B.

Once the testing of the direct network to network connection described has been completed one or more test results such as metrics describing the connectivity or performance of the direct network to network connection between the customer network and the service provider network may then be generated based upon the characteristics of the transmission of the test data from the resource A to the resource B. For example the test results might include metrics including but not limited to whether the test described above was successful or unsuccessful the throughput and or latency of the direct network to network connection and or any other type of metric that describes the availability and or performance of a network link. The test results might then be provided to the individual that submitted the test request such as a customer representative or an administrator of the service provider network .

Once the testing process described above has been completed the resources A and B in the service provider network and the VLANs A and B may be de provisioned in an automated fashion and without human intervention. For example the network test component might instruct the provisioning component or one or more other components in the service provider network to de provision the resources A and B and the VLANs A and B. Additional details regarding the various components and processes described above for automated testing of the direct network to network connection between the customer network and the service provider network will be presented below with regard to .

As discussed above the VLANs may be provisioned on the direct network to network connection between the service provider endpoint router and the customer side router A in one embodiment. It should be appreciated however that the VLANs A and B might be provisioned between the service provider endpoint router and virtually any router within the customer network . For instance in the example shown in the VLANs have been provisioned between the service provider endpoint router and a router connected to a network . In this way the test data can be routed from the resource A through the VLAN A to the router and then back to the resource B through the VLAN B. By performing tests using VLANs A and B configured between the service provider endpoint router and different routers at different locations within the customer network such as the router different aspects of the network connection between the service provider network and the customer network might be tested.

The routine begins at operation where a direct network to network connection is established between the customer network and the service provider network . As described above for instance a cross network connection might be established between a service provider endpoint router owned and operated by the service provider and a customer side router owned and operated by a customer of the service provider. Other types of direct network to network connections might also be utilized.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where a request to test the operation of the direct network to network connection is received at the network test component . As mentioned above the test request might be submitted by way of an appropriate GUI through an API or in another manner. As also mentioned above the test request might also include one or more test parameters describing how the test of the direct network to network connection should be performed. This occurs at operation . One illustrative routine for receiving test parameters will be described below with regard to .

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the test parameters are utilized to provision and configure various resources in the service provider network for use in testing the direct network to network connection . For example the test parameters may be utilized to provision and configure the VPCs A and B and the virtual machine instances A and B. Additional details regarding the provisioning and configuration of resources for use in testing the direct network to network connection will be provided below with regard to .

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where a customer representative may be provided with information for configuring various components in the customer network . For example an appropriate customer representative might be provided with information for configuring the router or the router to route data between the VLANs A and B. The customer may then utilize this information to configure various network devices within the customer network . Once the customer has completed configuration of the customer network for testing the testing of the connection between the customer network and the service provider network may begin.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the network test component determines whether a request to begin testing the direct network to network connection has been received. For example after submission of the test parameters a user might request that the test of the direct network to network connection be started. If such a request is received the routine proceeds from operation to operation described below. If a request to begin testing is not received the routine proceeds from operation to operation .

At operation the network test component determines whether a preset time has elapsed since the resources A and B were provisioned in the service provider network and or since the customer was provided parameters for use in configuring components within the customer network . If the preset period of time has not elapsed the routine proceeds back to operation where another determination is made as to whether a request to start testing has been received.

If at operation the network test component determines that the preset period of time has elapsed the routine proceeds from operation to operation . At operation the network test component may cause the resources A and B provisioned at operation to be de provisioned. The customer might also be provided notice that the resources A and B have been de provisioned. The routine then proceeds from operation to operation where it ends.

At operation the test data is transmitted from the resource A to the resource B in the manner described above. For example the virtual machine instance A in the VPC A might transmit the test data which is routed through the service provider endpoint router and over the VLAN A to the customer side router . The customer side router then routes the test data onto the second VLAN B and to the service provider endpoint router . The service provider endpoint router and potentially other components in the service provider network then cause the test data to be routed to the virtual machine instance B in the VPC B. In other embodiments a virtual machine instance A in a VPC A might transmit test data to a publically accessible resource in a similar fashion.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where a determination is made as to whether the testing process described above has been completed. The testing process may be completed if the testing specified by the test parameters has been completed or if the test fails. If testing is not complete the routine proceeds back to operation where testing might proceed in the manner described above. If testing has completed the routine proceeds from operation to operation .

At operation the test results are generated and provided to the user that submitted the test request . As mentioned above the test results might include metrics including but not limited to whether the test described above was successful or unsuccessful the throughput and or latency of the direct network to network connection and or any other type of metric that describes the availability and or performance of a network link. The test results might be provided to the individual that submitted the test request such as a customer representative or an administrator of the service provider network .

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the resources A and B in the service provider network utilized to perform the testing of the direct network to network connection may be de provisioned in an automated fashion and without human intervention. For example the network test component might instruct the provisioning component or one or more other components in the service provider network to de provision the virtual machine instances A and B the VPCs A and B and the VLANs A and B. Once the resources utilized to perform the testing have been de provisioned the routine proceeds from operation to operation where it ends.

The routine begins at operation where a test type is received. The test type specifies the type of test to be performed on the direct network to network connection . For example the test type might specify that a ping test IPERF test or other type of test be performed on the direct network to network connection . Other test types might also be specified in other embodiments.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where a test size may be received. The test size might specify the amount of data that is to be written from the resource A to the resource B. Alternately the test size might specify the amount of data that is to be read from the resource B. For example if the resource B is a publically accessible data storage resource the test size might specify a number of megabytes of data that are to be read from the data storage resource in order to test the direct network to network connection .

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the internet protocol IP addresses to be utilized to test the direct network to network connection may be specified. For example the IP addresses utilized by the VPCs A and B might be specified. Similarly the IP addresses utilized by the virtual machine instances A and B might also be specified at operation .

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where a test duration may be specified. The test duration specifies the amount of time that the test data should be transmitted over the direct network to network connection in the manner described above. For example in conjunction with operation a user might specify that 20 mb s of data be transmitted over the direct network to network connection for sixty seconds. In this manner a user can specify both the volume of data to be transmitted and the duration of the transmission.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the type of resources to be utilized to test the direct network to network connection might be specified. For example a user might be permitted to specify whether publically accessible or private resources be utilized and the particular types of resources to be utilized in the testing of the direct network to network connection . Some of the various types of resources that might be utilized have been described above.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where a user might be permitted to specify whether the test of the direct network to network connection is an in service test where other data on the direct network to network connection is not disturbed or an out of service test wherein no other data is permitted on the direct network to network connection . In this regard if an in service test is selected the user might also be permitted to specify what portion of the available bandwidth on the direct network to network connection be utilized for testing. A network to network interface NNI or other mechanism might be utilized to enforce a restriction on the volume of data transmitted over the direct network to network connection during testing. From operation the routine proceeds to operation where it ends.

It should be appreciated that the various test parameters described above with regard to are merely illustrative. Other test parameters not specifically described above might also be utilized in other embodiments. Additionally it should be appreciated that the test parameters might be utilized to provision and configure resources in the service provider network prior to the start of testing. The test parameters might also be utilized during testing of the direct network to network connection .

The routine begins at operation where the provisioning component or another component within the service provider network configures the VLANs A and B. As discussed above the VLANs are provisioned on the direct network to network connection between the service provider endpoint router and the customer side router A in one embodiment. As mentioned above the VLANs A and B might be provisioned between the service provider endpoint router and virtually any router within the customer network . By performing tests using VLANs A and B configured between the service provider endpoint router and different routers at different locations within the customer network different aspects of the network connection between the service provider network and the customer network might be tested.

Once the VLANs A and B have been provisioned the routine proceeds from operation to operation where the VLANs A and B are configured. The test parameters described above might be utilized to configure the VLANs A and B. From operation the routine proceeds to operation .

At operation the provisioning component or another component within the service provider network provisions the resources A and B for use in testing the direct network to network connection . For example the provisioning component might provision the VPCs A and B and or the virtual machine instances A and B. The routine then proceeds to operation where the resources are configured. For example the test parameters described above might be utilized to configure the resources for testing the direct network to network connection in the manner specified by the test parameters .

It should be appreciated that the provisioning and configuration operations described above with regard to are merely illustrative and that other provisioning and configuration operations might be performed in order to test the direct network to network connection in the manner described above. From operation the routine proceeds to operation where it ends.

The computer includes a baseboard or motherboard which is a printed circuit board to which a multitude of components or devices may be connected by way of a system bus or other electrical communication paths. In one illustrative embodiment one or more central processing units CPUs operate in conjunction with a chipset . The CPUs may be standard programmable processors that perform arithmetic and logical operations necessary for the operation of the computer .

The CPUs perform operations by transitioning from one discrete physical state to the next through the manipulation of switching elements that differentiate between and change these states. Switching elements may generally include electronic circuits that maintain one of two binary states such as flip flops and electronic circuits that provide an output state based on the logical combination of the states of one or more other switching elements such as logic gates. These basic switching elements may be combined to create more complex logic circuits including registers adders subtractors arithmetic logic units floating point units and the like.

The chipset provides an interface between the CPUs and the remainder of the components and devices on the baseboard . The chipset may provide an interface to a random access memory RAM used as the main memory in the computer . The chipset may further provide an interface to a computer readable storage medium such as a read only memory ROM or non volatile RAM NVRAM for storing basic routines that help to startup the computer and to transfer information between the various components and devices. The ROM or NVRAM may also store other software components necessary for the operation of the computer in accordance with the embodiments described herein.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computing devices and computer systems through a network such as the local area network . The chipset may include functionality for providing network connectivity through a NIC such as a gigabit Ethernet adapter. The NIC is capable of connecting the computer to other computing devices over the network . It should be appreciated that multiple NICs may be present in the computer connecting the computer to other types of networks and remote computer systems.

The computer may be connected to a mass storage device that provides non volatile storage for the computer. The mass storage device may store system programs application programs other program modules and data which have been described in greater detail herein. The mass storage device may be connected to the computer through a storage controller connected to the chipset . The mass storage device may consist of one or more physical storage units. The storage controller may interface with the physical storage units through a serial attached SCSI SAS interface a serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface a fiber channel FC interface or other type of interface for physically connecting and transferring data between computers and physical storage units.

The computer may store data on the mass storage device by transforming the physical state of the physical storage units to reflect the information being stored. The specific transformation of physical state may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the physical storage units whether the mass storage device is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like.

For example the computer may store information to the mass storage device by issuing instructions through the storage controller to alter the magnetic characteristics of a particular location within a magnetic disk drive unit the reflective or refractive characteristics of a particular location in an optical storage unit or the electrical characteristics of a particular capacitor transistor or other discrete component in a solid state storage unit. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this description. The computer may further read information from the mass storage device by detecting the physical states or characteristics of one or more particular locations within the physical storage units.

In addition to the mass storage device described above the computer may have access to other computer readable storage media to store and retrieve information such as program modules data structures or other data. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable storage media can be any available media that provides for the storage of non transitory data and that may be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology compact disc ROM CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD high definition DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information in a non transitory fashion.

The mass storage device may store an operating system utilized to control the operation of the computer . According to one embodiment the operating system comprises the LINUX operating system. According to another embodiment the operating system comprises the WINDOWS SERVER operating system from MICROSOFT Corporation. According to further embodiments the operating system may comprise the UNIX or SOLARIS operating systems. It should be appreciated that other operating systems may also be utilized. The mass storage device may store other system or application programs and data utilized by the computer such as the network test component the provisioning component and or any of the other software components and data described above. The mass storage device might also store other programs and data not specifically identified herein.

In one embodiment the mass storage device or other computer readable storage media is encoded with computer executable instructions which when loaded into the computer transforms the computer from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computer capable of implementing the embodiments described herein. These computer executable instructions transform the computer by specifying how the CPUs transition between states as described above. According to one embodiment the computer has access to computer readable storage media storing computer executable instructions which when executed by the computer perform the various routines described above with regard to and . The computer might also include computer readable storage media for performing any of the other computer implemented operations described herein.

The computer may also include one or more input output controllers for receiving and processing input from a number of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a touchpad a touch screen an electronic stylus or other type of input device. Similarly the input output controller may provide output to a display such as a computer monitor a flat panel display a digital projector a printer a plotter or other type of output device. It will be appreciated that the computer may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for testing a direct network to network connection using resources provided by a service provider network have been presented herein. Moreover although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

