---

title: Customizing alerts on an alerting device
abstract: A first device may receive an alert from a second device; and execute, based on receiving the alert, a particular alerting program, of multiple alerting programs, to activate or deactivate multiple separate light sources, implemented within the first device, in a sequence in accordance with instructions included in the particular alerting program. The instructions may be selected or customizable by a user via an application associated with the first device. The first device may be separate from the second device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189930&OS=09189930&RS=09189930
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09189930
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130820
---
User devices alert users for example when the user is receiving a telephone call a text message an e mail message or the like. Users may wish to customize the presentation of alerts based on the user s interest and preferences.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and or methods as described herein may provide an alerting device that provides customized alerts based on the occurrence of an event.

In some implementations the alerting device may execute a custom alerting program that causes the alerting device to activate the one or more light sources and or output audio from the speaker. In some implementations a user may generate the custom alerting program via a user interface of the alerting device to select particular audio to output and select particular light sources to activate in a particular sequence such that the light sources form a pattern and or an animation.

As shown in an alert provider may provide an alert that corresponds to the occurrence of an event. For example an alert provider may correspond to a user device that provides an alert such as an alert relating to an incoming telephone call e mail text message application alert or the like. Additionally or alternatively the alert provider may correspond to a client device such as a machine to machine M2M device that determines the occurrence of an event based on information gathered by one or more sensors and or meters of the client device.

Based on receiving the alert the alerting device may execute a custom alerting program to activate one or more light sources output audio etc. In an example shown in the alerting device may output audio and may activate e.g. power on the lighting sources. As further shown in and after additional time has elapsed the alerting device may modify an intensity color and or shading of the light output by light sources to complete a program cycle. In some implementations the alerting device may repeat the program cycle thereby creating an animation when alerting a user. In some implementations the alerting device may discontinue the program cycle when the user provides an instruction to discontinue the program cycle e.g. when the user answers a telephone call when the user presses a silence button on the alerting device etc. . Additionally or alternatively the alerting device may discontinue the program cycle after a predetermined number of cycles has completed.

As described above the user may generate the custom alerting program via a user interface. In some implementations the custom alerting program may include a program cycle that identifies particular light sources to activate or deactivate in a particular sequence particular time indexes in which to activate or deactivate the particular light sources a color intensity of light output by the light sources particular audio to output at the particular time indexes and or some other instruction for the alerting device. In some implementations different custom alerting programs may be executed based on attributes associated with the alert provided by the alert provider. For example the alerting device may execute a first custom alerting program when receiving an alert corresponding to an incoming call from a first telephone number. Further the alerting device may execute a second custom alerting program when the alerting device receives an alert corresponding to an incoming call from a second telephone number. Additionally the alerting device may execute a third custom alerting program when the alerting device receives an alert corresponding to an intrusion type alert. That is the alerting device may store multiple custom alerting programs and may select a particular custom alerting program to execute based on attributes of the alert.

User device may include a device capable of communicating via a network such as network . For example user device may correspond to a mobile communication device e.g. a smart phone or a personal digital assistant PDA a portable computer device e.g. a laptop or a tablet computer a desktop computer a gaming device a set top box. In some implementations user device may correspond to an alert provider and may provide an alert to alerting device . For example user device may provide an alert relating to an incoming telephone call e mail text message application alert e.g. an application notification such as an alert from a social media application a gaming application etc. or the like. In some implementations user device may be paired or connected to alerting device so that user device may provide alerting device with alerts. In some implementations user device may output particular audio when providing an alert to alerting device and or user device connects with alerting device .

In some implementations user device may be used to generate a custom alerting program for alerting device . For example user device may include an application that may be used to generate the custom alerting program. Additionally or alternatively user device may communicate with program storage server to generate the custom alerting program via an application programming interface API implemented by program storage server . Additionally or alternatively user device may communicate with alerting device to generate the custom alerting program via an API implemented by alerting device . In some implementations user device may be used to generate program selection instructions e.g. instructions that direct alerting device to select a particular custom alerting program based on alert attributes . In some implementations user device may function as an alerting device and or as an alert provider. In some implementations user device may display a battery level indication to indicate the battery level of a connected alerting device or other device to which user device can authenticate to either over a wired or wireless link.

Client device may include one or more machine to machine M2M devices capable of communicating via a network. In some implementations client device may correspond to an alert provider to provide an alert to alerting device . In some implementations client device may include a network device e.g. a modem a switch a gateway etc. a sensing device a processing device a metering device and or some other type of device. In some implementations client device may include a sensing or metering device to gather data and form a data record associated with the data. For example a data record may include a temperature measurement a resource usage measurement a motion detection indication an object detection indication a facility intrusion detection indication or some other measurement and or indication. In some implementations each data record may include a timestamp information identifying a particular sensing metering device of client device used to gather the data in the data record information regarding a particular product associated with the data information regarding a particular facility associated with the data information regarding a particular geographic location associated with the data and or some other information regarding the data.

In some implementations data records may be used to provide an alert based on the occurrence of an event e.g. a facility intrusion event an event that identifies when resources have dropped below a particular threshold and or some other type of event .

Alerting device may include a computing device that may execute a particular custom alerting program corresponding to attributes of a received alert. In some implementations alerting device may be implemented as or within a walking aid such as a cane a hiking stick or the like. Additionally or alternatively alerting device may be implemented as or within a keychain a belt clip a paperweight a monitor a picture frame or the like. Additionally or alternatively alerting device may be implemented in a wearable fabric. In some implementations alerting device may include multiple light sources one or more speakers and or some other component that may be activated when executing a custom alerting instruction. In some implementations alerting device may implement an API via which user device may generate the custom alerting program. Additional details regarding alerting device are described below with respect to .

Program storage server may include a computing device such as a server device or a collection of server devices. In some implementations program storage server may implement an API to generate a custom alerting program and or program selection instructions that direct alerting device to select a particular custom alerting program based on alert attributes. In some implementations user device may communicate with program storage server e.g. via a web portal or the like to generate the custom alerting program via the API. In some implementations program storage server may store and or provide the custom alerting program to a particular alerting device . In some implementations program storage server may store a custom alerting program formed by a third party developer to permit a user of alerting device to download the custom alerting program to alerting device in exchange for a payment.

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a Bluetooth network a near field communication NFC network an infrared network a radio frequency RF network a ZigBee network a cellular network e.g. a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network a fifth generation 5G network or the like a public land mobile network PLMN and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network a managed IP network a virtual private network VPN an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

The quantity of devices and or networks illustrated in is not limited to what is shown. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environment . Devices of environment may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

As shown in device may include a bus a processor a main memory a read only memory ROM a storage device an input device an output device and a communication interface .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor a microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or another type of processor that interprets and executes instructions. Main memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information or instructions for execution by processor . ROM may include a ROM device or another type of static storage device that stores static information or instructions for use by processor . Storage device may include a magnetic storage medium such as a hard disk drive or a removable memory such as a flash memory.

Input device may include a component that permits an operator to input information to device such as a control button a keyboard a keypad or another type of input device. Output device may include a component that outputs information to the operator such as an LED a display or another type of output device. Communication interface may include any transceiver like component that enables device to communicate with other devices or networks. In some implementations communication interface may include a wireless interface a wired interface or a combination of a wireless interface and a wired interface.

Device may perform certain operations as described in detail below. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as main memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

The software instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in main memory may direct processor to perform processes that will be described later. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

In some implementations device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than are shown in .

In some implementations alerting device may include a transparent housing a footing provided at a bottom portion of the housing and or a handle provided on a top portion of the housing. In some implementations alerting device may include a power silence button provided on the handle. In some implementations the transparent housing may enclose a power source a circuit board and a spring connecting the power source to the circuit board. In some implementations the circuit board may include multiple light sources a speaker a controller and or some other device e.g. a sensor an accelerometer or the like .

In some implementations the handle may include metal wood plastic rubber and or or some other type of material to provide a gripping point for a user to grip alerting device . In some implementations the handle may be threaded and may attach to the transparent housing via threads at a connection point in the transparent housing. In some implementations the handle may function as a top cover to the transparent housing and may apply a force to engage the power source against the spring connecting the power source to the circuit board.

As shown in the handle may include a power silence button to power on or off alerting device . Additionally or alternatively the power silence button may be used to cause alerting device to discontinue executing a custom alerting program e.g. such that alerting device discontinues outputting audio and or powering on and off light sources associated with alerting device . Additionally or alternatively the power silence button may be used to connect alerting device with user device e.g. to pair alerting device with user device via a Bluetooth connection a near field connection or the like . In some implementations the power silence button may connect with the circuit board via internal wiring connecting the power silence button from the handle through the transparent housing and to the circuit board.

In some implementations the footing may include a rubber and or some other type of material provided at a bottom portion of the transparent housing. In some implementations the footing may aid in gripping a walking surface and to aid a user in walking on the walking surface using alerting device .

In some implementations the transparent housing may include a plastic a plastic composite a thermoplastic including a polymethyl methacrylate material an acrylic glass and or some other type of material. In some implementations the transparent housing may form a weather proof enclosure to protect components enclosed by the transparent housing. In some implementations the transparent housing may be a shaft in the shape of a cylinder a prism or some other shape. In some implementations the transparent housing may include a tint a resin and or a coating to reduce an amount of light output by the light sources and passing through the transparent housing. Additionally or alternatively the tint and or coating may alter a color and or an intensity of light output by the light sources when the light passes through the transparent housing.

In some implementations the transparent housing may include an indicia e.g. an adhesive label an engraved indicia a radio frequency ID RFID tag or the like that may include a barcode a quick response QR code and or some other type of indicia that identifies information associated with alerting device e.g. a model number a serial number etc. . In some implementations user device may scan the indicia to identify the particular alerting device and to download an application used to create a custom alerting program for alerting device based on a model number serial number and or other identifier of alerting device as identified by the indicia.

In some implementations a power source may be provided within the transparent housing in between a bottom portion of the handle and engaged against a spring connecting the power source to the circuit board. In some implementations the power source may be a portable power source such as a battery e.g. a lithium ion battery a nickel metal hydride battery an alkaline battery and or some other type of battery . In some implementations the power source may be a non portable power source that connects to a power supply in a facility.

In some implementations a circuit board may be provided within the transparent housing and may connect multiple separate light sources e.g. LEDs florescent light bulbs or the like to a power source and to a controller. In some implementations the circuit board may further include one or more speakers connected to the controller via the circuit board.

In some implementations the circuit board may include a controller connected to switches that activate and or deactivate the light sources. For example a light source may be activated e.g. powered on when a corresponding switch is toggled to connect the light source to the power source. Further a light source may be deactivated e.g. powered off when a corresponding switch is toggled to disconnect the light source from the power source. In some implementations the circuit board may include a switch for each light source or may include a single switch for multiple light sources. In some implementations the circuit board may include multiple switches associated with different light colors for a particular light source e.g. to output different colors of light via the particular light source . In some implementations the controller may toggle the switches in accordance with a custom alerting program that identifies particular light sources to activate deactivate at particular time indexes. Further the controller may output sound to the speaker in accordance with the custom alerting program.

In some implementations alerting device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than are shown in . Further the shapes dimensions and proportions of the components may differ from what is shown in .

In some implementations alerting device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than are shown in . Further the shapes dimensions and proportions of the components may differ from what is shown in .

A particular instance of data structure may contain different information and or fields than another instance of data structure . In some implementations a particular data structure may store a particular custom alerting programs and program selection instructions for a particular alerting device .

Program instructions field may include instructions for a particular custom alerting program. In some implementations program instructions field may store an identifier of the particular custom alerting program e.g. a string of characters having any length and format that uniquely identifies the program . As further shown in program instructions field may identify a particular audio file that alerting device may play e.g. when alerting device executes the custom alerting program via a speaker and a particular volume level at which the audio file may be played. In some implementations the particular audio file may be stored by alerting device . Additionally or alternatively alerting device may download the particular audio file from a content storage server.

In some implementations program instructions field may include instructions to direct alerting device to power on or power off particular light sources e.g. particular LEDs at a particular time index and in a particular sequence. Additionally or alternatively program instructions field may include instructions to direct alerting device to output a particular color of light via a particular LED. For example alerting device may output a particular color of light by toggling a switch corresponding to the color of light connecting a power source of alerting device to the LED.

As an example program instructions field may store information to direct alerting device to output blue light via LED LED and LED at the time index of . Further program instructions field may store information to direct alerting device to output red light via LED LED and LED at the time index of . Further program instructions field may store information to direct alerting device to power off LED and LED and to output blue light via LED at time index . Further program instructions field may store information to direct alerting device to output red light via LED and LED and to power off LED at time index . In some implementations alerting device may execute program ID thereby outputting sound and light in accordance with information stored by program instructions field . In some implementations program instructions field may store light output instructions for a program cycle e.g. a cycle that includes time indexes and alerting device may repeat the program cycle until alerting device receives an instruction to discontinue executing the custom alerting program or when a predetermined number of program cycles has completed.

Program selection field may store information that identifies a particular custom alerting program that alerting device may select and execute based on a set of alert attributes. For example program selection field may store attributes associated with an alert such as type of alert e.g. a telephone call a text message a sensor measurement an alarm etc. a type of connection interface via which an alert is received e.g. a Bluetooth interface a cellular interface etc. a telephone number associated with the alert a device ID associated with the alert and or some other information relating to an attribute of the alert. In some implementations program selection field may identify a particular custom alerting program that may be executed when an alert meeting the corresponding alert attributes is received. Further program selection field may identify a number of cycles in which the custom alerting program may be repeated. In some implementations program selection field may not identify the number of cycles e.g. as indicated by N A thereby directing alerting device to continue to repeat execution of the custom alerting program until alerting device receives a command to discontinue the custom alerting program.

As an example alerting device may execute the custom alerting program having the program ID when alerting device receives a telephone call type alert via a Bluetooth interface and when the alert is associated with the telephone number 555 555 1111. Further alerting device may repeat the custom alerting program five times or when the execution of the custom alerting program is discontinued by a user of alerting device e.g. when a silence button is pressed on user device and or alerting device when the telephone call is answered etc. . In some implementations alerting device may determine the type of alert based on a header associated with the alert based on a device ID of the alert and or based on service associated with the alert e.g. a service that alerting device may access to receive the alert such as a service implemented by a Bluetooth profile of alerting device .

As another example alerting device may execute the custom alerting program having the program ID when a resource level alert is received from a client device having the device ID M2M123. For example client device may provide the alert when a resource level measured by one or more sensors of client device drops below a particular threshold or exceeds a particular threshold. As a result alerting device may be used to alert a user when client device identifies that the resource level has dropped below a particular threshold or exceeded a particular threshold. Further alerting device may be used to alert the user when client device identifies the occurrence of some other event e.g. a facility intrusion event an event relating to a temperature measurement that exceeds or drops below a particular threshold an event relating to an inventory level for a product that exceeds or drops below a particular threshold an event relating to a resource usage measurement that exceeds a particular threshold etc. .

In some implementations alerting device may store alerts in a local storage corresponding to a time based alarm. For example program selection field may store a program selection instruction to direct alerting device to select and execute program ID at a particular time of day corresponding to a time based alarm. In some implementations the time based alarm may correspond to an event on a calendar associated with a user profile of a user associated with alerting device . Additionally or alternatively the time based alarm may correspond to a recurring or one time alarm set by the user of alerting device .

As described above information stored by program instructions field and or program selection field may correspond to custom alerting program instructions and program selection instructions selected by a user via an application of user device alerting device and or program storage server . Some examples of selecting custom alerting program instructions and program selection instructions are described in greater detail below with respect to and .

While particular fields are shown in a particular format in data structure in practice data structure may include additional fields fewer fields different fields or differently arranged fields than are shown in . Also illustrates examples of information stored by data structure . In practice other examples of information stored by data structure are possible.

As shown in process may include receiving and storing a custom alerting program block . For example alerting device may receive the custom alerting program from user device and or from program storage server . As described above the custom alerting program may be developed via an application associated with user device and or via an application associated with program storage server . In some implementations alerting device may include an application to develop the custom alerting program accessible by user device when user device connects with alerting device . In some implementations the custom alerting program may include a script and or a computer file having information corresponding to information stored by program instructions field and may be stored in a memory of alerting device . In some implementations the script and or a computer file may be formed by the application associated with user device program storage server or alerting device . In some implementations alerting device may receive and store multiple custom alerting programs.

In some implementations program storage server may provide the custom alerting program to alerting device based on receiving an instruction to provide the custom alerting program. For example a user may use user device to communicate with program storage server to select the custom alerting program with a user interface of the user device and to select to provide the custom alerting program to alerting device e.g. in an exchange for a payment or free of charge . Some examples of an application to develop the custom alerting program are described below with respect to .

Process may also include receiving and storing program selection instructions. For example alerting device may receive the program selection instructions from user device via an application of user device and or via an application implemented on alerting device and accessible by alerting device . In some implementations the program selection instructions may correspond to information stored by program selection field and may include instructions to direct alerting device to select a particular custom alert of multiple custom alerts stored by alerting device based on attributes of an alert. In some implementations the program selection instructions may be stored in a memory of alerting device when alerting device receives the program selection instructions. For example user device may provide a file including the program selection instructions to alerting device for storage by alerting device . Additionally or alternatively alerting device may generate the file when user device is used to access the application implemented on alerting device to provide the program selection instructions via the application.

Process may further include receiving an alert and identifying attributes of the alert block . For example alerting device may receive an alert from an alert provider such as user device and or client device e.g. an incoming telephone call an e mail a text message an application alert an alert relating to the occurrence of an event such as a facility intrusion event an event that identifies when resources have dropped below a particular threshold and or some other type of alert . As described above with respect to program selection field the attributes of the alert e.g. the alert attributes may identify a type of alert an interface via which the alert is received a telephone number associated with the alert a device ID of a device from which the alert is received and or some other information relating to the alert.

In some implementations alerting device may identify the attributes of the alert based on a header included in the alert. Additionally or alternatively alerting device may identify the attributes based on a service via which the alert is received. For example for a telephone call received by user device the alert attributes may be received via a head set service associated with a Bluetooth profile implemented by alerting device . For an alert in the form of an IP based message received from client device the alert attributes may be included in a header of a packet associated with the alert.

Process may also include selecting a particular custom alerting program corresponding to the alert attributes block . For example alerting device may identify the particular custom alerting program based on information stored by program selection field and based on the alert attributes. Some examples of selecting a particular custom alerting program are described above with respect to program selection field . In some implementations alerting device may select a default custom alerting program when the alert attributes do not match the attributes identified by the program selection instructions. In some implementations e.g. when alerting device stores only one custom alerting program alerting device may select the one custom alerting program. In some implementations user device may identify alert attributes may select the particular custom alerting program based on the program selection instructions and may provide a message to alerting device that identifies the selected particular custom alerting program.

Process may further include executing the particular custom alerting program block . For example alerting device may execute the particular custom alerting program to activate or deactivate particular light sources of alerting device in a particular sequence and or to output audio via a speaker of alerting device . In some implementations alerting device may complete a program cycle after executing the particular custom alerting for a predetermined amount of time or for a predetermined number of cycles. As described above with respect to program instructions field the particular custom alerting program may identify the time length of the program cycle. For example the particular custom alerting program may have a second program cycle when the particular custom alerting program includes instructions for time indexes spanning from . In some implementations alerting device may discontinue executing the particular custom alerting program after completing a particular number of program cycles and or receiving an instruction to discontinue executing the particular custom alerting program. In some implementations the particular number of program cycles may be based on program selection instructions stored by program selection field .

In some implementations alerting device may execute a custom alerting program based on a time based alarm that may correspond to an event stored by a user s calendar or a user profile. For example alerting device may store the user s calendar or may receive an indication from user device or from some other device to execute the custom alerting program at a time corresponding to the calendar event. In some implementations user device may provide a one time instruction to direct alerting device to execute a custom alerting program.

While shows process as including a particular quantity and arrangement of blocks in some implementations process may include fewer blocks additional blocks or a different arrangement of blocks. Additionally or alternatively some of the blocks may be performed in parallel.

In some implementations a user may use a camera or scanning device associated with user device to scan indicia on alerting device . Based on scanning the indicia user device may identify a layout of light sources associated with alerting device e.g. based on a serial number of alerting device a model number of alerting device or some other identifier of alerting device corresponding to the indicia scanned by user device . Additionally or alternatively user device may receive an identifier of alerting device via some other technique e.g. manual entry to identify alerting device and identify a layout of the light sources associated with alerting device . As an example assume that alerting device corresponds to a walking aid such as a cane a hiking stick or the like.

In some implementations the custom alerting program may include a light source instruction set and an audio instruction set. For example the light source instruction set may direct alerting device to power on power off particular light sources on alerting device modify an intensity of the light sources and or modify a color output by the light sources at different time indexes. In some implementations the audio instruction set may direct alerting device to output particular audio at particular time indexes or to output particular audio for the entire time that alerting device executes the custom alerting program.

As shown in a layout of the light sources may be presented in interface when a user selects to provide instructions for the light source instruction set e.g. instructions for LED light sources associated with alerting device . As further shown in interface the user may select a particular light source or a particular group of light sources. Based on selecting the light source s the user may select instructions for the selected light source s that may be executed at particular time indexes. As an example the user may select to activate e.g. power on the selected light sources e.g. LEDs through and output the color blue during the time index . Further the user may select to deactivate e.g. power off the selected light sources from time index . As further shown in interface the user may select to add the instructions for the light sources to a custom alerting program.

Referring to the user may further select to generate instructions for another group of selected light sources e.g. LEDs through . In the example shown in the user may select to deactivate the selected light sources during time index to activate the selected light sources during time index to output the color red via the selected light sources. As further shown in the user may select to add the instructions to the custom alerting program. In some implementations the instructions received via interface may correspond to custom alerting program instructions stored by program instructions field . As further shown in the user may select to provide instructions for the audio instruction set of the custom alerting program. As an example the user may select a particular audio file that alerting device may output when executing the custom alerting program e.g. the audio file Star Wars.mp3 . Further the user may select time indexes in which the audio file is to be output. For example the user may select to direct alerting device to continuously output the audio file as the custom alerting program is executed over multiple program cycles.

In the example of a program cycle may be two seconds in length e.g. since instructions were received for time indexes spanning from . In some implementations user device alerting device and or program storage server may generate the custom alerting based on receiving instructions for the custom alerting program via interface . In some implementations interface may present an indication that the custom alerting program has been created e.g. when the user selects to create the custom alerting program after providing instructions for the light source instruction set and the audio instruction set . In some implementations interface may present an option to allow the user to provide a description name or identifier to uniquely identify the program. In some implementations the description name or identifier may correspond to the program ID stored by program instructions field .

While a particular example is shown in the above description is merely an example implementation. In practice other examples are possible from what is described above in . Also while a particular format of interface is shown in practice interface may have a different format and appearance than what is shown in .

While a particular example is shown in the above description is merely an example implementation. In practice other examples are possible from what is described above in .

As described above a custom alerting program may include a program cycle that identifies particular light sources associated with alerting device to activate particular time indexes during which to activate the particular light sources a color intensity of light output by the light sources particular audio to output at the particular time indexes and or some other instruction for alerting device . In some implementations different custom alerting programs may be selected based on attributes associated with the alert provided by the alert provider. That is alerting device may store multiple custom alerting programs and may select a particular custom alerting program to execute based on attributes of the alert thereby creating a personalized and customized experience when receiving an alert.

In some implementations user device may communicate wirelessly with an alerting device that indicates proximity. For example alerting device may illuminate when a vehicle in a garage comes within a predetermined distance from the alerting device. In some implementations alerting device may include a sensor that detects the proximity of the vehicle or other object and illuminates as described elsewhere herein and also transmits an alert message to user device and or an audible and visual indicator in the vehicle that also alerts a driver of proximity to the alerting device. Thus by strategically placing alerting device in the garage the driver can receive parking guidance without having a park distance feature built into the vehicle.

The foregoing description provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

It will be apparent that different examples of the description provided above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these examples is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of these examples were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement these examples based on the description herein.

Some implementations are described herein in conjunction with thresholds. The term greater than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term greater than or equal or similar terms . Similarly the term less than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term less than or equal to or similar terms . As used herein. satisfying a threshold or similar terms may be used interchangeably with being greater than a threshold being greater than or equal to a threshold being less than a threshold being less than or equal to a threshold or other similar terms depending on the context in which the threshold is used.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

