---

title: Shoes with interchangeable heels
abstract: Shoes with interchangeable heels. The assembly includes a sole having a toe end and a heel end. At the heel end, a heel attachment slide capture feature is provided. The heel attachment slide capture feature includes opposing first and second wedge portions forming a partial V-shaped passageway therebetween. The partial V-shaped passageway may decrease in width from the heel end toward the toe end. First and second heels are provided, each having a heel body, an upper end, and a lower end, and a locking slide portion sized and shaped complementary to the slide capture feature, for secure engagement therewith. The locking slide portion may further includes a nose portion having a detent, configured for use with a quick disconnect latch to provide releasable locking engagement between the sole and a heel of selected height, such as a high heel, low heel, or medium height heel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09486032&OS=09486032&RS=09486032
owner: 
number: 09486032
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130315
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This application relates to shoes and in an embodiment to women s shows which are configured use of the same upper portion with alternate height heels.

A wide variety of shoe designs have been heretofore proposed with detachable heels. However in so far as I am aware the previously available mechanisms for securing alternate heels to the sole of a shoe have been rather cumbersome. Thus there remains a need to provide a simple easily hand manipulated design to quickly and easily remove a currently attached heel and to replace it with another heel. It would be desirable to provide a suitable releasably locking configuration that would enable individuals to quickly and easily remove existing heels and attach new heels to each one of a pair of shoes.

A novel shoe assembly with an interchangeable heel apparatus has been developed that in various embodiments greatly eases the task of removing existing heels and attaching new heels to each one of a pair of shoes. In an embodiment the shoe includes a sole and an upper foot engaging portion. The sole portion has a heel end and a toe end and at the heel end a heel attachment slide capture feature. The heel attachment slide capture feature includes opposing first and second wedge portions that form a partial V shaped passageway therebetween. The partial V shaped passageway is of decreasing width from the heel end toward the toe end.

Heel types may be provided in many shapes and sizes. In any event a first heel is provided having a first vertical height. The first heel has a first heel body with a first upper end and a first lower end and a first ground engaging surface located at the first lower end. A first locking slide portion is sized and shaped complementary to the slide capture feature on the sole for secure engagement therewith. In an embodiment the first locking slide portion may be configured as a first sliding dove tail joint portion.

A second heel is provided having a second vertical height. The second heel has a second heel body with a second upper end and a second lower end and a second ground engaging surface located at the second lower end. A second locking slide portion is sized and shaped complementary to the slide capture feature on the sole for secure engagement therewith. In an embodiment the second locking slide portion may be configured as a second sliding dove tail joint portion.

A further embodiment may include yet a third heel having a third vertical height. The third heel has a third heel body with a third upper end and a third lower end and a third ground engaging surface located at the third lower end. A third locking slide portion is sized and shaped complementary to the slide capture feature on the sole for secure engagement therewith. In an embodiment the third locking slide portion may be configured as a third sliding dove tail joint portion.

A quick disconnect latch configured to provide releasable locking engagement between said sole and the first heel or the second heel or the third heel is provided. In an embodiment the quick disconnect latch may be in or associated with the sole portion.

In an embodiment an apparatus for providing an interchangeable shoe assembly may include a heel attachment slide capture feature on the sole that is configured as a sliding dove tail joint portion.

Attention is directed to where an embodiment for an interchangeable shoe assembly is illustrated. The shoe assembly includes a sole having a toe end and a heel end . At the heel end a heel attachment slide capture feature is provided. In an embodiment the heel attachment slide capture feature may further include opposing first and second wedge portions forming a partial V shaped passageway therebetween see . As also better seen in the heel attachment slide capture feature on the sole may be provided as a base sliding dove tail joint portion .

As better seen in the partial V shaped passageway at least in part decreases in width W from the heel end toward the toe end . In various embodiments an upper foot engaging portion may be provided.

As seen in first heel may be provided. The first heel may include a first heel body having a first upper end and a first lower end . A first ground engaging surface may be located at the first lower end . A first locking slide portion sized and shaped complementary to the slide capture feature is provided for secure mating engagement with the slide capture feature . . In an embodiment the first locking slide portion may be provided as a first sliding dove tail joint portion .

As seen in a second heel may be provided. The second heel may include a second heel body having a second upper end and a second lower end . A second ground engaging surface may be located at the second lower end . A second locking slide portion sized and shaped complementary to the slide capture feature is provided for secure mating engagement with the slide capture feature . In an embodiment the second locking slide portion may be provided as a second sliding dove tail joint portion .

As seen in a third heel may be provided. The third heel may include a third heel body having a third upper end and a third lower end . A third ground engaging surface may be located at the third lower end . A third locking slide portion sized sized and shaped complementary to the slide capture feature is provided for secure mating engagement with the slide capture feature . In an embodiment the first locking slide portion may be provided as a third sliding dove tail joint portion .

Turning now to the sole is shown oriented along a longitudinal axis indicated by broken line substantially extending between the heel end and the toe end . As indicated in a quick disconnect latch may be provided. In an embodiment the quick disconnect latch may be oriented substantially transverse as indicated by broken line to the longitudinal axis . The quick disconnect latch provides releasable locking engagement between the sole and a first heel or a second heel or a third heel or other heels of similar configuration.

As seen in a sole having a longitudinal axis may be provided in a configuration wherein at least one of the opposing first and second wedge portions is oriented substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis . As indicated in when looking at the bottom of a right hand sole a first wedge portion may be provided oriented substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis . As also seen in in an embodiment the depth T of a first wedge portion or second wedge portion may be provided in a configuration in which first width Tand second with Tthat becomes narrower and narrower as distance increases from the heel end of sole . For example see which shows the first width Tbetween an outer portion and an inner portion of the first wedge portion . Likewise see in the second width Tbetween an outer portion and inner portion of second wedge portion . Further note by reference to that the inner portion of first wedge portion will engage the first upper edge or analogous first upper edge or in other heel embodiments . Likewise the inner portion of second wedge portion will engage the second upper edge or analogous second upper edge or in other heel embodiments . Similarly note by reference to that the outer portion of first wedge portion will engage the first lower edge or analogous first lower edge or in other heel embodiments . Likewise the outer portion of second wedge portion will engage the second lower edge or analogous second lower edge or in other heel embodiments .

As further seen in in an embodiment the quick disconnect latch may include an extendible locking pin . The locking pin is shown in an extended locking position in and in a retracted heel change position in . The quick disconnect latch is securely affixed to sole . In an embodiment as seen in the lower side of sole may include a built up portion and a handle access portion defined by sidewalls . In an embodiment the quick disconnect latch may be provided as a hand retractable spring plunger. Suitable hand retractable spring plungers may be obtained from J. W. Winco Inc. located at 2815 South Calhoun Road New Berlin Wis. 53151 phone number 1 800 877 8351 and at their web site http www.jwwinco.com. The exact model and part number may vary depending on shoe size and shape in which it is to be used but may be determined by those of skill in the art and to whom this specification is directed.

In an embodiment a quick disconnect latch may be provided as a hand retractable spring plunger wherein a spring not shown biases the locking pin to a normally extended locking position as noted in . In an embodiment as seen in an L shaped handle may be provided with a lock out slot for caging the handle when the quick disconnect latch is in a locking pin extended locking position . In an embodiment the handle may be oriented at substantially ninety 90 degrees from the axis of the locking pin . In an embodiment locking pin may be provided in a generally cylindrical configuration.

As seen in in an embodiment a first heel of height Hmay be provided wherein the height His sized to position a heel of a user not shown at a first predetermined elevation above ground wherein the first predetermined elevation provides a relatively high heel configuration for the first heel . The first locking slide portion of first heel further comprises a first nose piece with a first detent therein. In an embodiment the first nose piece may be provided in a partial parallelepiped shaped protrusion from the first heel . As used herein the term partial parallelepiped shape denotes that the first nose piece may be provided where edges of five of six sides are shaped as parallelograms. The locking pin is sized and shaped for locking engagement between the locking pin and the first detent .

As seen in in an embodiment a second heel of height Hmay be provided wherein height His sized to position a heel of a user not shown at a second predetermined elevation above ground wherein the second predetermined elevation provides a medium height heel configuration for the second heel . The second locking slide portion of second heel further comprises a second nose piece with a second detent therein. As used herein the term partial parallelepiped shape denotes that the second nose piece may be provided where edges of five of six sides are shaped as parallelograms. The locking pin is sized and shaped for locking engagement between the locking pin and the second detent .

As seen in in an embodiment a third heel of height Hmay be provided wherein height His sized to position a heel of a user not shown at a third predetermined elevation above ground wherein the third predetermined elevation provides a low height heel configuration for the third heel . The third locking slide portion of the third heel further comprises a third nose piece with a third detent therein. As used herein the term partial parallelepiped shape denotes that the third nose piece may be provided where edges of five of six sides are shaped as parallelograms. The locking pin is sized and shaped for locking engagement between the locking pin and the third detent .

As seen from the heel attachment slide capture feature in the sole further comprises a nose piece receiving dock defined by interior sidewalls . The nose piece receiving dock is sized and shaped for complementary mating engagement with the first nose piece or with the second nose piece or with the third nose piece .

In various embodiments any one or more of the first heel second heel and third heel may include a mating plate as seen in and wherein the mating plate has a length L. In any event as also seen in the a locking slide portion or such as the first locking slide portion of first heel has an overall length L.

Attention is directed to wherein provides a cross sectional view taken across line of showing the width Wof a locking slide portion or on a heel or at a distance Dfrom the heel rear end .

Attention is directed to and wherein provides a cross sectional view taken across line of showing the width Wof a locking slide portion or on a heel or at a distance Dfrom the heel rear end .

Attention is further directed to and wherein provides a cross sectional view taken across line of showing the width Wof a locking slide portion or on a heel or at a distance Dfrom but very near to the heel rear end .

As shown herein in an embodiment shoes may be provided wherein interlocking dove tail joint portions are inserted and removed from sole at the rear that is from the heel end of sole . In any event first heel second heel or third heel are releaseably affixed to the sole . In various embodiments a quick release latch may be used and in various embodiments such a quick disconnect latch release may be accessible from the inner side of a sole .

In so far as is presently known the shoes with interchangeable heels as disclosed is a distinct improvement in the art of shoes with interchangeable heels. In an embodiment a quick release latch may be utilized that allows unlocking and detachment of a heel on a one handed basis which makes change out of heels such as to provide a shoe with a different heel height extremely easy and inconspicuous regardless of business or social setting of the user.

In the foregoing description for purposes of explanation numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for the design of a shoe with interchangeable heels. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice a selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further for descriptive purposes various relative terms may be used. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. And various actions or activities in any method described herein may have been described as multiple discrete activities in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the developments described herein. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such activities are necessarily order dependent. In particular certain operations may not necessarily need to be performed precisely in the order of presentation. And in different embodiments of the invention one or more activities may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other activities may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase in an embodiment or in one embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

From the foregoing it can be understood by persons skilled in the art that a novel design for shoes with interchangeable heels has been described herein. Although only certain specific embodiments of the developments presented herein have been shown and described there is no intent to limit such developments to the specifically described embodiments. Rather the developments are to be defined by the appended claims and their equivalents when taken in combination with the description.

Importantly the aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Therefore the embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. As such this disclosure is intended to cover the structures described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Numerous modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

