---

title: System and method to generate a data-rich template
abstract: A computerized method and system for correlating template data to select contextually relevant content including receiving a request from a consumer device to serve a template at a server, the template comprising at least one tag, selecting a content in a database associated with the at least one tag based at least in part on a correlation between the template and the at least one tag, substituting the at least one tag with the content, and transmitting the template from the server to the consumer device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613085&OS=09613085&RS=09613085
owner: SALESFORCE.COM, INC.
number: 09613085
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131015
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 714 069 filed on Oct. 15 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Enterprises interested in engaging their customers and attracting new customers utilize Internet based marketing campaigns that communicate with such customers over multiple channels. With the establishment of social media and the ever increasing adoption of mobile devices the amount of information available to such customers is vast and the amount of time in which such information is relevant continues to become shorter. As such enterprises must quickly communicate content to such customers before the message within such content is no longer relevant.

Today enterprises may create Internet based content somewhat quickly through the use of various template languages such as for example Mustache and Handlebars. These template languages enable an enterprise to use content based variables and other pre defined sets of information to quickly generate web based content in HTML JavaScript and other languages.

Nevertheless current template languages suffer from the inability to automatically make connections between content being generated by an enterprise and information associated with such content stored within an information store. Additionally current template languages lack the ability to automatically determine what type of communication is being developed and automatically populate a pre defined template for such communication that already references previously stored information variables.

Accordingly there exists a need for a system method and non transitory computer readable medium that enables enterprises to generate communications to their customers more quickly by automatically associating data within an information store and suggesting previously defined layouts to an enterprise during the content creation process. Indeed there exists a need for a system method and computer readable medium that quickens the development process for communications by pre populating at least portions of developed communications based on the type of communication being developed and the type of information being referenced in the communication.

In the present disclosure a system method and non transitory computer readable medium for generating a data rich template is disclosed. The system method and non transitory computer readable medium enables an enterprise to input content and automatically associate such content with previously obtained information previously defined information types or pre built layouts relevant to the content. As used in the present disclosure content may refer to but is not limited to web and or mobile browser interpretable language that renders video text information input fields templates links and other types of browser viewable data when viewed in a web browser. As used in the present disclosure web and or mobile browser interpretable language includes but is not limited to Ruby JavaScript Python Erlang PHP Perl Objective C Java .NET C Go Lua ooc ActionScript ColdFusion Scala Clojure Fantom CoffeeScript D and any other language able to render information when viewed in a web browser or extensions to such languages to render information such as for example Handlebars and Mustache. It should be appreciated that it is within the scope of the present disclosure that web and or mobile browser interpretable languages may be configured to support specific user devices and or user operating systems such as for example Java for Android C for iOS and other device specific distributions. It should be noted that the method system and non transitory computer readable medium for generating a data rich template of the present disclosure may be used along with or to complement one or more programs.

Referring now to it is shown a method to generate a data rich template according to at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown in the method includes developing content in step determining relevant information types in step associating content with information types in step generating associated content in step suggesting content in step and publishing content in step .

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure an enterprise creating communications for its customers and potential customers will develop content in one or more web based languages in step . In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the enterprise will create such content in a Guide Template Language. As used in the present disclosure the Guide Template Language refers to a language that supports association of content with one or more contexts and data sources and or the ability to create tags data expressions and other template language constructs. In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the Guide Template Language may act as a superset of one or more template languages and therefore include at least all of the constructs and functionality of the one or more template languages such as for example the Guide Template Language may be a superset of the Handlebars template language which is itself a superset of the Mustache template language. In this example by acting as a superset of the Handlebars template language the Guide Template Language may support expressions precompilation paths helpers and other constructs available in the Handlebars and or Mustache template languages.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure an enterprise may create content by developing such content in the Guide Template Language. In such an embodiment the enterprise may input code to render images video information and other types of content within a communication. In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the enterprise may input code that requests information from a viewer of the communication. In such an embodiment the code when viewed in a web browser may render a communication that requests various types of information from a viewer such as for example an email address contact information demographic information and other types of information.

For example an enterprise intending to create a communication that asks a user to sign up for the enterprise s newsletter may input code that when viewed by a web browser will render content asking the user to input an email address or other contact information through a text box or other input field. In this example the enterprise may use the Guide Template Language to associate the input field with a column in a data store such as for example an email address column in a row that captures contact information. As used in the present disclosure a data store refers to but is not limited to a relational database a comma separated value file a flat file a data structure a linked list or other information storing system.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the Guide Template Language supports the use of tags. In such an embodiment a tag is an identifier that provides a processing directive to a rendering engine such as a web browser which when evaluated by the rendering engine performs a substitution of information for a tag based on how the tag is defined. A tag could be used to reference an external data source to substitute a value from the data source into the output markup or conditionally process the markup based upon the state of external data. For example as used in the Guide Template Language the syntax associated with a tag may follow the criteria set forth in the Handlebars and Mustache template languages.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the Guide Template Language supports defining one or more data sources or data stores. In such an embodiment an enterprise may reference an external data source or data store to use when evaluating tags. In such an embodiment in the event that the enterprise defines a tag and a data source the enterprise may reference a value stored within the data source in the tag. In such an embodiment a rendering engine will pull the value from the data source when performing the substitution to render the tag.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the Guide Template Language will automatically populate a set of common data sources. These common data sources may include but are not limited to types of data sources that are generally available to all templates created using the Guide Template Language for an enterprise. In one example a global data source that stores time values an FTP location to store information and other system wide information that is generally available to an enterprise. In another example a common data source may include one specific to the enterprise and contain values about the enterprise such as for example an enterprise identifier the enterprise s common business name the city in which the enterprise is located and other information about the enterprise. In another example a common data source may include that contains contact information about persons in which the enterprise communicates such as for example the enterprise s newsletter distribution list. In this example the data source may include a contact s email address cell phone number social media handle and other contact information that the enterprise may use to communicate with the contact. It should be appreciated that it is within the scope of the present disclosure to include any generally available data source in the Guide Template Language based on the types of information that an enterprise may commonly need when creating templates.

For example an enterprise creating a communication using the Guide Template Language that will ask viewers of the communication to input their birthday into the communication may desire to include information about the enterprise in the communication. In this example the enterprise may include tags using the Guide Template Language that reference a common data source that contains information about the enterprise such as for example the enterprise s address and name. In this example by including a tag the enterprise will develop the template quicker than writing out this information manually. In addition in this example the enterprise may reuse the created template at a later time even if information about the enterprise has changed provided that the enterprise has updated the common data source.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure an enterprise may create content by using a GUI wizard or other tool that assists the enterprise in creating content visually such as for example the content creator tool shown in . In such an embodiment the content creator tool assists the enterprise by visually representing at least portions of the content and enabling the enterprise to drag and drop pre built components into a communication. In such an embodiment the content creator tool may generate content using the Guide Template Language based on input from the enterprise.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure relevant information types are determined in step based on content developed in step . In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the enterprise inputs content that contains variables or other references to content within a data store in step . In such an embodiment the Guide Template Language supports automatically determining relevant information types based on content created through the use of one or more tags. In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure an enterprise may input code that defines one or more variable tags. In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure a variable tag is an identifier that references a data field within a data environment. In such an embodiment a rendering engine for the developed content in the Guide Template Language will enumerate over a stack to find the appropriate data source to associate with each variable tag. In such an embodiment if the rendering engine does not determine a data source it may generate a default string empty string or other pre defined value to use in the event a data source cannot be matched.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the method associates content with information types in step . In such an embodiment a rendering engine may associate content defined through the use of one or more tags such as for example the use of variable tags as described above. In such an embodiment a rendering engine will substitute information stored within a data field of a data store in place of the variable tag.

In an exemplary embodiment the Guide Template Language supports the use of Data Expressions. As used in the present disclosure a Data Expression is a type of tag with an identifier that is evaluated against a set of data sources to automatically determine what data source is appropriate to associate with the identifier. In such an embodiment the enterprise may define a tag with a data extension or information type using a Data Expression without defining a data source. In such an embodiment the method automatically evaluates the available data sources to the enterprise to associate the tag with the appropriate data source in step .

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure data sources are evaluated to determine whether the data extension or information type input by the enterprise in the tag is contained within any data source available to the enterprise. Data sources available to the enterprise may include but are not limited to standard data sources within a context defined or attached by the enterprise and any data source in which information owned by the enterprise is stored with a defined data model.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the data model defines the types and reference names of data extensions contact attributes and other information types available within a data store to the enterprise. In such an embodiment the Data Expression may match the data extension or information type used within a tag in the event that the data extension or information type is referenced in the defined data model. In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure in the event that an appropriate data extension or contact attribute within a defined data model is located or an appropriate data source is identified a rendering engine will generate the associated content by substituting the tag for the identified information in step .

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the defined data model may include a data model that is specific to an enterprise. In such an embodiment the enterprise may reference information by referencing an identifier or name of the information. In such an embodiment the Guide Template Language identifies how to access the data sort the data and filter the data based on the context of the request. In such an embodiment an enterprise referencing a variable or identifier within a Data Expression will instruct the Guide Template Language to automatically locate sort and filter the data associated with the variable or identifier based on the context of the request by the enterprise. It should be appreciated that this process may occur within a browser at the time of rendering content based on the Guide Template Language and or occur on a server prior to serving content to the rendering engine.

For example Company A is an enterprise that uses ExactTarget to assist in creating and sending communications on behalf of Company A. In this example ExactTarget stores information about Company A s contacts and customers within a defined data model. In addition in this example ExactTarget makes available to Company A a certain set of common data sources to reference in the Guide Template Language as Company A creates content. In this example one of the common data sources may include information about Company A such as for example Company A s mailing address.

In this example Company A desires to create a communication using the Guide Template Language that asks viewers of the communication to input their age into a form. In this example Company A creates the communication using the Guide Template Language. In this example Company A includes tags within the communication that reference the common data source to include Company A s mailing address when rendering the communication.

In addition Company A desires to include information indicating the viewer s birthday stored within ExactTarget s defined data model without knowing the exact data source name or reference to use in the Guide Template Language. In this example Company A creates a tag that defines a Data Expression which includes the contact attribute of Birthday . In this example the Data Expression indicates that a substitution should occur in the event that the contact attribute of Birthday can be located within the ExactTarget defined data model. In the event that Birthday is a contact attribute within the ExactTarget defined data model a rendering engine will substitute the tag for the value associated with birthday in the defined data model for the specific viewer.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the method suggests pre built content to the enterprise in step . In such an embodiment in the event that the enterprise inputs content that will create a common type of communication in which there is already a template for such communication the system will suggest content for the enterprise to use in step . In such an embodiment the suggested content will be written in the Guide Template Language and reference data sources data extensions and data types owned by the enterprise such that the enterprise may quickly and efficiently create new communications based on pre defined communication templates.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the content will be suggested in step by evaluating the content developed by the enterprise against a set of pre build templates to determine whether the enterprise is referencing data extensions or contact attributes within a defined data model that are referenced in a pre built template. In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the enterprise inputs content into a system and the system evaluates the content against content within the pre built templates. In such an embodiment in the event that the system identifies that the content is associated with data extensions or contact attributes within a defined data model that is referenced in a pre built template the system will suggest that the enterprise use the pre built template in place of the developed content.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the method will publish the content in step . In such an embodiment the content that is published is the content chosen by the enterprise which may include the content developed by the enterprise alone or the suggested content in step . In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the content is published by sending the content in a communication to a recipient publishing the content on a webpage or generally making the content available to one or more desired viewers.

Referring now to there is shown at least one embodiment of the components of the system for generating data rich templates according to the present disclosure. System comprises first remote device host server database and computer network . For purposes of clarity only one first remote device is shown in . However it is within the scope of the present disclosure that the system may have two or more first remote devices operating at the same time. In the embodiment shown in first remote device is operated by an enterprise. It should be noted that at least in one embodiment of the present disclosure the first remote device may not be remote from the other components of the system but may be part of or locally connected to the host server and the database .

The first remote device may be configured to send content to the host server via the computer network . In addition or alternatively the first remote device may be configured to access and utilize an application hosted on host server to build content. First remote device includes one or more computers computing devices or systems of a type well known in the art such as a mainframe computer workstation personal computer laptop computer hand held computer cellular telephone or personal digital assistant. First remote device comprises such software hardware and componentry as would occur to one of skill in the art such as for example one or more microprocessors memory systems input output devices device controllers and the like. First remote device also comprises one or more data entry means not shown in operable by users of first remote device for data entry such as for example a pointing device such as a mouse keyboard touchscreen microphone voice recognition and or other data entry means known in the art. First remote device also comprises a display means not shown in which may comprise various types of known displays such as liquid crystal diode displays light emitting diode display and the like upon which information may be display in a manner perceptible to the user.

As described above the host server may be configured to receive content from the first remote device host an application for the first remote device to build electronic messages and or establish one or more electronic messages. In at least one embodiment the host server accesses the database to evaluate tags Data Expressions and other substitution elements contained with content using the Guide Template Language as described in the method . The host server is configured to carry out one or more of the steps of method described above. For example the host server may perform steps and . The first remote device is configured to provide input to the host server to carry out one or more of the steps of method described above. For example the content created by the enterprise in step may include content input into the first remote device . Host server comprises one or more server computers computing devices or systems of a type known in the art. Host server further comprises such software hardware and componentry as would occur to one of skill in the art such as for example microprocessors memory systems input output devices device controllers display systems and the like. Host server may comprise one of many well known servers such as for example IBM s AS 400 Server IBM s AIX UNIX Server or MICROSOFT s WINDOWS NT Server. In host server is shown and referred to herein as a single server. However host server may comprise a plurality of servers or other computing devices or systems interconnected by hardware and software systems know in the art which collectively are operable to perform the functions allocated to host server in accordance with the present disclosure.

The database is configured to store data extensions and contact attributes in the defined data model and information stored within common data sources. Database is associated with host server . According to the present disclosure database can be associated with host server where as shown in the embodiment in database resides on host server . Database can also be associated with host server where database resides on a server or computing device remote from host server provided that the remote server or computing device is capable of bi directional data transfer with host server . In at least one embodiment the remote server or computing device upon which database resides is electronically connected to host server such that the remote server or computing device is capable of continuous bi directional data transfer with host server .

For purposes of clarity database is shown in and referred to herein as a single database. It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that database may comprise a plurality of databases connected by software systems of a type well known in the art which collectively are operable to perform the functions delegated to database according to the present disclosure. Database may comprise a relational database architecture or other database architecture of a type known in the database art. Database may comprise one of many well known database management systems such as for example MICROSOFT s SQL Server MICROSOFT s ACCESS or IBM s DB2 database management systems or the database management systems available from ORACLE or SYBASE. Database retrievably stores information or documents that is communicated to database from first remote device or through computer network .

First remote device communicates with host server via computer network . The communication between first remote device and host server may be bi directional. Computer network may comprise the Internet but this is not required.

Referring now to it is shown a graphical user interface to create data rich templates according to at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown in it is shown a graphical user interface to create data rich templates according to at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown in the graphical user interface contains a visual representation of various parts of a communication that an enterprise may create. As shown in an example of the types of sections within a communication that may be created by an enterprise are a header a call to action section an offer a spotlight article a secondary article and a footer . It should be appreciated that it is within the scope of the present disclosure for a communication created using the Guide Template Language to contain any number or combinations of sections and content and that the graphical user interface shown in is an example.

As shown in in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure an enterprise creating a communication using the Guide Template Language may use a graphical user interface to populate the communication. In such an embodiment the enterprise may populate sections within the graphical user interface by selecting various components from a component screen as shown in . As shown in an enterprise may select components from a component list to populate a communication. As used in the present disclosure components refers to but is not limited to pre built templates using the Guide Template Language to create communications or parts of communications for an enterprise. As shown in examples of the types of components available to an enterprise include an editor component a deal component a video component a social media interaction component a data table component and a newsletter signup component . It should be appreciated that it is within the scope of the present disclosure that any number or type of pre built components may be included and presented to the user in the component list and that the components shown on are examples.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure an enterprise may select one or more components from the component list to include in a communication. As shown in an enterprise may drag the editor component from the component list to the graphical user interface. Referring now to after dragging the editor component from the component list to the graphical user interface the editor component populates within a section of the graphical user interface and the enterprise may further edit the pre built template of the editor component as they desire for the communication. It should be appreciated that the enterprise may drag any component from the component list to any section of the graphical user interface to be placed in the communication and that the example shown in and is merely an example. Referring now to in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the enterprise may further alter the editor component by defining data sources and adding data extensions.

In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the graphical user interface shown in and the component list shown in are served by the host server shown in and viewed by an enterprise from the first remote device . It should be appreciated that the data sources and data extensions shown in the editor component in FIG. E may be populated from entries in the database . In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure as the enterprise manipulate the graphical user interface shown in the system executes varies steps in the method to create a communication.

While this disclosure has been described as having various embodiments these embodiments according to the present disclosure can be further modified within the scope and spirit of this disclosure. This application is therefore intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the disclosure using its general principles. For example any methods disclosed herein represent one possible sequence of performing the steps thereof. A practitioner may determine in a particular implementation that a plurality of steps of one or more of the disclosed methods may be combinable or that a different sequence of steps may be employed to accomplish the same results. Each such implementation falls within the scope of the present disclosure as disclosed herein and in the appended claims. Furthermore this application is intended to cover such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which this disclosure pertains.

