---

title: Crowdsourced responses management to cases
abstract: A response management system and method configured to allow management of responses to a case submitted by an entity in a crowdsourced network. The system includes a processing circuit that receives, from the entity over the crowdsourced network, the case. The processing circuit federates the case, into a plurality of federated cases, based on one or more parameters. The processing circuit routes the federated cases to the crowd of respondents in the network. The processing circuit receives responses from the crowd for each of the federated cases. The processing circuit integrates responses for each of the federated cases to yield a single integrated response for the case. The processing circuit publishes the integrated response anonymously that is viewable publicly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09418355&OS=09418355&RS=09418355
owner: NETSPECTIVE COMMUNICATIONS LLC
number: 09418355
owner_city: Silver Spring
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130920
---
The embodiments herein generally relate to management of responses online and in particularly to systems and methods for management of responses created by a crowd of respondents in a crowdsourced network to increase authenticity of the responses.

There exist online platforms through which individuals can submit their questions and a networked agency connected to the online platform provides answers to such questions. However such answers are not very useful because of a lack of reliability and correctness of the answers.

Therefore there is a need for a method and system that ensures reliability and correctness of the answers by using wisdom of crowd and credentialing processes.

An embodiment herein provides a response management system configured to allow management of responses to a case submitted by an entity in a crowdsourced network. The system includes a memory for storing information pertaining to the case submitted by the entity respective responses for the case by a crowd of respondents in the crowdsourced network and programmed instructions. The system further includes a processing circuit. The processing circuit receives from the entity over the crowdsourced network the case. The processing circuit federates the case into a plurality of federated cases based on one or more parameters including a level of complexity technology involved and a level of reliability and trust desired in its respective response. Each of the federated cases are associated with one or more corresponding session parameters that are indicative of a respective level of complexity technology involved a level of reliability and trust in response desired. The processing circuit routes the federated cases to the crowd of respondents in the network such that the routing of the federated cases is managed based on the session parameters associated with each of the federated cases. The processing circuit receives responses from the crowd for each of the federated cases. The processing circuit associates information pertaining to the responses as second session parameters that are compared with the first session parameters such that the comparison yields a degree of compliance and appropriateness of the second session parameters toward the first session parameters. In response to a degree of compliance below a threshold for one or more federated cases an adjusted set of third session parameters are associated with the one or more such federated cases. The processing circuit routes the one or more such non compliant federated cases to a second crowd of respondents in the network such that the routing of the cases is managed based on the third session parameters associated with each of the one or more federated cases. The processing circuit integrates responses for each of the federated cases to yield a single integrated response for the case. The processing circuit publishes the integrated response anonymously that is viewable publicly.

An embodiment herein provides a method for management of responses to cases submitted by an entity in a crowdsourced network. The method includes receiving from the entity over the crowdsourced network a case. The method includes federating the case into a plurality of federated cases based on one or more parameters including a level of complexity technology involved and a level of reliability and trust desired in its respective response wherein each of the federated cases are associated with one or more corresponding session parameters that are indicative of a respective level of complexity technology involved a level of reliability and trust in response desired. The method includes routing the federated cases to the crowd of respondents in the network such that the routing of the cases is managed based on the session parameters associated with each of the federated cases. The method includes receiving responses from the crowd for each of the federated cases. The method includes associating information pertaining to the responses as second session parameters that is compared with the first session parameters such that the comparison yields a degree of compliance and appropriateness of the second session parameters toward the first session parameters. In response to a degree of compliance below a threshold for one or more federated cases an adjusted set of third session parameters are associated with the one or more such federated cases. The method includes routing the one or more such non compliant federated cases to a second crowd of respondents in the network such that the routing of the cases is managed based on the third session parameters associated with each of the one or more federated cases. The method includes integrating responses for each of the federated cases to yield a single integrated response for the case corresponding to the federated cases. The method includes publishing the integrated response anonymously that is viewable publicly.

An embodiment herein provides a program storage device readable by a computer and comprising a program of instructions executable by said computer to perform a method for management of responses to cases submitted by an entity in a crowdsourced network. The method includes receiving from the entity over the crowdsourced network a case. The method includes federating the case into a plurality of federated cases based on one or more parameters including a level of complexity technology involved and a level of reliability and trust desired in its respective response wherein each of the federated cases are associated with one or more corresponding session parameters that are indicative of a respective level of complexity technology involved a level of reliability and trust in response desired. The method includes routing the federated cases to the crowd of respondents in the network such that the routing of the cases is managed based on the session parameters associated with each of the federated cases. The method includes receiving responses from the crowd for each of the federated cases. The method includes associating information pertaining to the responses as second session parameters that is compared with the first session parameters such that the comparison yields a degree of compliance and appropriateness of the second session parameters toward the first session parameters. In response to a degree of compliance below a threshold for one or more federated cases an adjusted set of third session parameters are associated with the one or more such federated cases. The method includes routing the one or more such non compliant federated cases to a second crowd of respondents in the network such that the routing of the cases is managed based on the third session parameters associated with each of the one or more federated cases. The method includes integrating responses for each of the federated cases to yield a single integrated response for the case corresponding to the federated cases. The method includes publishing the integrated response anonymously that is viewable publicly.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the embodiments herein may be practiced. These embodiments which are also referred to herein as examples are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the embodiments herein and it is to be understood that the embodiments may be combined or that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the embodiments herein.

The network can employ a wireline or a wired communication channel or both. The wireless communications network may include for example but not limited to a digital cellular network such as Global System for Mobile Telecommunications GSM network Personal Communication System PCS network or any other wireless communications network. The wire line communications network may include for example but not limited to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN proprietary local and long distance communications network or any other wire line communications network. In addition the network may include for example digital data networks such as one or more local area networks LANS one or more wide area networks WANS or both LANS and WANS. One or more networks may be included in the crowdsourced network and may include both public networks such as the Internet and private networks and may utilize any networking technology and protocol such as Ethernet Token Ring Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP or the like to allow interaction with the ecosystem.

The entities can include one or more of a patient physician doctor surgeon healthcare expert any other healthcare professional or any other professional from other industry such as energy financial transportation logistics and numerous other industries. The respondents may include one or more of a physician doctor surgeon healthcare expert any other healthcare professional or healthcare organization such as a hospital or any other professional or expert from other industry such as energy financial transportation logistics and numerous other industries or any other person or organization or institution.

The entities and respondents may be operatively connected with for example any type of electronic data processing system or communication device or the client device connected to the communications network. Examples of such an electronic data processing system or client device may include personal computer systems such as desktop or laptop computers workstation computer systems server computer systems networks of computer systems personal digital assistants PDAs wireless communications devices portable devices or any other electronic data processing system. The client devices or data processing systems can include hardware software computing devices capable of various computational tasks associated with the invention. These tasks can be performed through stand alone application via Web browser graphical user interface GUI or via a Rich Internet Interface RII . An embodiment herein may be implemented as computer software incorporated as part of an online social networking system.

In accordance with various embodiments the cases can be medical cases or cases related to any other industry such as finance energy infrastructure engineering science research and the like. In an embodiment the cases can include a query about a medical problem disease diagnostics or treatment and the like. For example a medical case may include an individual s medical history ongoing treatment and treatment plan in future and a question appended with the case for which an answer is sought. In an example a response may include an answer for a question posted by an entity. In some embodiments the medical case may simply be a question posted by an entity.

The ecosystem thus provides a platform for aggregating cases or questions and answers or responses on an online platform communicatively coupled to a crowdsourced community of the entities and respondents . The ecosystem facilitates finding faster answers to simple or complex cases through wisdom and analysis of crowds. In an embodiment the platform may facilitate exchange of medical information by submission of medical cases or questions and finding answers or responses through the wisdom of crowds. A patient parent of a patient a hospital etc. can submit to this platform a partial or complete medical case including images documents etc. and the crowd of the respondents can help perform research and provide answers to the patient or their representative.

The memory stores information pertaining to a query or a case submitted by an entity or any other entity. The memory further stores respective responses for the case by the crowd of respondents in the crowdsourced network . The memory further stores programmed instructions for performing various tasks pertaining to the invention. The memory includes for example a cases information database programmed instructions module and a profiles database . The cases information database stores information about cases or portions thereof and the responses for the respective cases and portions thereof. The programmed instructions module stores various programmed instructions for use in performing various tasks pertaining to the invention. The profiles database stores profiles of each of the entities and the respondents and various other experts or other persons that may be considered in future for writing responses to various cases.

The communications circuit can be any input output module. In some embodiments the communications circuit is configured to connect to a plurality of devices such as an input module an output module and a display device.

The server includes the processing circuit . The processing circuit is configured to receive from an entity over the crowdsourced network a case such as a medical case without limitations. The processing circuit federates the medical case into a plurality of federated cases based on one or more parameters. The one or more parameters may include a level of complexity technology involved and a level of reliability and trust desired in its respective response by the plurality of respondents . In an embodiment each of the federated cases is associated with one or more corresponding first session parameters. The session parameters are indicative of a respective level of complexity technology involved a level of reliability and trust in response desired.

The processing circuit routes the federated medical cases to the crowd of respondents or the plurality of respondents in the network such that the routing of the medical cases is managed based on the first session parameters associated with each of the federated medical parameters. For example during routing of the federated cases the processing circuit may identify a federated medical case and its technology by reading its session parameter corresponding to the case technology. Based on identification of the technology the processing circuit may route the medical case to a set of respondents who are well versed or expert in the relevant technology as identified through the session parameter. Similarly another first session parameter may be associated with the medical case that defines level of reliability needed in responses for the federated medical case. Accordingly the processing circuit may share the medical case to those respondents who are capable of delivering value to an extent of desired reliability. In such cases the respondents may be screened based on their expertise qualification age credentialing affiliations accreditations and the like. In an embodiment a level of reliability and trust is controlled by using a crowdsourcing index CI discussed later that is indicative of a crowd of respondents such that the CI and the level of reliability and trust bear a non linear relationship with one another. In an embodiment the CI is defined in a way that the number of respondents bears a non linear relationship with the reliability and trust level. In an embodiment the relationship is exponential in nature such that with a unit increase in the number of respondents for a federated case the reliability and trust increases exponentially.

The respondents review the federated medical cases and write answers or responses for the medical cases or questions thereof. The responses may include content video clips audio files or any other type of information. The processing circuit receives responses from the crowd for each of the federated medical cases. In some embodiments a single federated case is shared with the crowd of respondents . Therefore a plurality of responses are received by the processing circuit for each of the federated cases. The crowdsourced responses from the plurality of respondents increase reliability and authenticity of the responses. In an embodiment the number of crowdsourced respondents can be 100. In another embodiment the number of crowdsourced respondents can be 500 or 1000 or even higher. In an embodiment a crowdsourcing index CI may be associated with each of the responses such that the CI defines a non linear relationship with an output derived from the responses. In an embodiment the CI is defined in a way that the number of respondents bears a non linear relationship with the output. For example output may be reliability or trust or authenticity of the responses. The authenticity or reliability may therefore increase non linearly as the number of respondents associated with a particular federated case increase.

The processing circuit associates information pertaining to the responses as second session parameters. For example the processing circuit identifies and records information pertaining to the technology expertise of a respondent writing a response for a federated medical case. The information is defined through the use of a second session parameter corresponding to the technology. Similarly various other second session parameters may be defined for other factors such as including without limitations capability of managing complexity by the respondent credentialed expertise of the respondent affiliation and accreditation of the respondent and the like. While the first session parameters are indicative of desired characteristics in the responses from the crowd of respondents the second session parameters are indicative of actual characteristics of the responses. A comparison between the first session parameters and the respective and related second session parameters is indicative of the value and reliability of the responses. For example in some embodiments a first session parameter corresponding to a complexity level of a federated medical case can be compared with a second session parameter corresponding to a level of complexity that a respondent is capable to handle. If the second session parameter yields a value higher than the corresponding first session parameter the response may be considered valuable. The various such responses from the crowd can so be managed and accordingly value of the response from an overall effect of the crowd can be determined also considering an impact of the CI as discussed above. In another example the first session parameter that may be indicative of a desired trust and reliability can be compared with a related second session parameter indicative of credentialed expertise of a respondent that govern reliability of the respondent . The comparison may result in identification of whether the respondent is authorized and expert enough to comment on the federated medical case and also in identification of the extent of expertise. The comparison also thus results in determination of a value of such a response by the respondent . If the comparison is highly positive the response may be considered as highly valuable or otherwise.

In some embodiments the comparison between the first session parameters and the second session parameters yields a degree of compliance and appropriateness of the second session parameters toward the first session parameters. In some embodiments a threshold limit may be defined such that in response to a degree of compliance below a threshold for one or more federated medical cases an adjusted set of third session parameters are associated with the one or more such federated medical cases by the processing circuit . The adjusted set of third session parameters are indicative of a lag between the first and the second session parameters or in another words are indicative of an extent of inappropriateness of the responses for the federated medical cases in light of the complexity technology reliability desired expertise desired crowdsourced number desired CI desired and the like. The adjusted set of third session parameters or simply third session parameters require further evaluation of the federated medical cases for determining accurate responses or updating of responses such that the further modifications at least make up the lag between the first and session parameters to an extent that the lag does not go beyond the defined threshold.

The adjustment according to the third session parameters can be performed by decreasing or increasing the CI in some embodiments. In some embodiments the adjustment can be made by increasing the number of respondents in the crowd for writing a response to a federated medical case that is by sharing the case with more respondents and evaluating responses from them as well. In some embodiments the adjustment can be made by routing the federated cases to respondents with a higher credentialed expertise. In some embodiments the adjustment can be made in several other ways without limiting the scope and spirit of the invention. Accordingly the processing circuit routes one or more such non compliant federated cases to a second crowd of respondents in the network such that the routing of the cases is managed based on the third session parameters associated with each of the one or more federated medical parameters.

Upon receipt of responses from the second crowd of respondents the processing circuit integrates responses for each of the federated cases to yield a single integrated response corresponding to the federated cases. The integration of the federated responses may be performed using various algorithms and mathematical computations without limiting the spirit and scope of the invention.

Subsequently the processing circuit publishes the integrated response anonymously over an online or any other platform. The response is viewable publicly along with the corresponding original case for which the response is developed. In some embodiments detailed analysis and evaluation of the response can be accessed by selected participants for example by an entity who submits the response after a paid subscription and after permissions granted by the respondents .

In an embodiment the integrated response is published anonymously. In an embodiment the integrated response is published as partially anonymous such that the entity such as is allowed to access profiles of the respondents anonymously.

In some embodiments the level of reliability and trust as discussed above is controlled by using the crowdsourcing index CI that is indicative of a crowd of respondents such that the CI and the level of reliability and trust bear a non linear relationship with one another. In an embodiment the CI is defined in a way that the number of respondents bears a non linear relationship with the reliability and trust level. In some embodiments the relationship is exponential in nature such that with a unit increase in the number of respondents for a federated case the reliability and trust increases exponentially.

As shown in with reference to in some embodiments the processing circuit comprises a federation engine that federates the medical case into the plurality of federated cases based on the one or more parameters including the level of complexity technology involved and the level of reliability and trust and the like.

The processing circuit further includes a session parameters mapping engine that is configured to compare the first session parameters with the second session parameters and compare the second session parameters with the third session parameters. The session parameters mapping engine generates a correlationship map between each of the first session parameters and the second session parameters and the second session parameters and the third session parameters wherein the correlationship map is indicative of the compliance.

In some embodiments the processing circuit further includes a session parameter adjustment engine to determine the adjusted third session parameters based on a comparison of the second session parameters with the first session parameters in view of the threshold level.

In some embodiments the processing circuit includes an integration engine to integrate the responses for the federated medical cases corresponding to the medical case. In various embodiments the case may be a medical case financial case technological case engineering case scientific case research case or any other case. In some embodiments the medical case can include one or more of a video clip an image and a document relating to a patient hospital disease treatment caretaker doctor or any other related entity. In some embodiments the entity can be one or more of a patient patient representative including a hospital guardian parent and a caretaker of the patient or any other person or organization. In embodiments the medical case submitted by the entity is either a complete or a partial medical case.

In some embodiments the processing circuit further includes a complexity evaluation engine . The complexity evaluation engine evaluates complexity of various portions of the medical case prior to federating the case into the federated cases based on the level of complexity of the portions. In an embodiment the complexity evaluation engine evaluates complexity of the various portions of the medical case based on inputs from a plurality of crowdsourced persons. In some embodiments complexity levels are identified by using a crowdsourcing index CI that is indicative of a crowd of persons such that the CI and the complexity levels bear a non linear relationship with one another. In an embodiment the CI is defined in a way that the number of respondents bears a non linear relationship with the complexity levels.

In some embodiments the processing circuit may include a credentialing engine discussed later in conjunction with . In some embodiments the processing circuit may include a response reviewing and scoring module discussed later in conjunction with . In embodiments the output generated by the credentialing engine and the response scoring and reviewing module may be used by the processing circuit .

The experts may include one or more of a physician doctor surgeon healthcare expert any other healthcare professional or healthcare organization such as a hospital or any other professional or expert from other industry such as energy finance transportation logistics and numerous other industries or any other person who may be interested in credentialing or accreditation process of the respondents or may be any person related to the respondents and who may provide a trusted response or comment on information about the respondents such as qualifications work history and the like. A plurality of industry related or other agencies such as hospitals nursing centers research institutes financial companies financial agencies transportation agencies logistic companies energy related agencies and others or hiring agencies or placement agencies may also access the credentialing system to receive credentialing or verification services provided by the system for the plurality of respondents . In such embodiments the system may provide the services to such agencies based on credentialing of the information of the respondents obtained by the experts .

The credentialing system provides a technical capability and a federation model such that profiles of the respondents may be created including details about the respondents and stored in the system . The details may include demographic information personal information educational background work history or any other similar information. These profiles can be shared with the plurality of experts based on set standards and preferences and rules to implement a federated exchange capability wherein distinct portions of the profiles can be credentialed or accredited or verified and shared or exchanged with the experts in a federated manner. The system further provides a credentialing and verification and accreditation capability such that profiles of each of the respondents may be credentialed or verified or accredited by the experts such that the entire credentialed information or profiles available and credentialed through federated sources is accessible at a single location from the system. In some embodiments the system further provides a capability to create a federated model of the profiles such that the federated segments or portions or profiles as will be discussed later in detail may be verified or credentialed distinctly by distinct federated experts in the crowdsourced network such that the crowdsourcing increases the level of trust and authenticity and reliability of the credentialing and credentialed information due to cumulative effect of several federated verifications by the crowdsourced experts for the same segments of the profiles.

The credentialing system as shown includes a federated profile manager a segmenting or federation engine and a certification engine discussed below.

The federated profile manager is configured to receive information for profile creation from the plurality of respondents . The federated profile manager is responsible for maintaining the information thus received from the respondents and modify it as per updates from the respondents . The federated profile manager is configured to be linked to several sources of information that have respondents presence such as for example their social networks including social networking websites their educational institutions work environments and the like. The federated profile manager collects information from a plurality of sources for each of the respondents and collates the records and information in the form of a single common profile of each of the respondents that are associated with and communicate with the system . The profile manager for example may collect information from federated sources such as Linkedin Myspace About.Me education institutions workstations and the like. The common profile maintained by the system may be viewable by the respondents experts relevant organizations or any other persons or entities associated with or subscribed to the system . In some embodiments the federated profile manager may automatically retrieve the profile information from the social networks. In other embodiments the federated profile manager may maintain information that is submitted by the respondents voluntarily.

The federated profile manager may allow the respondents to maintain their profiles in the system and protect the information in their profiles and their attention from inappropriate access and makes their personal profiles connectable. The credentialing system may further enable the profiles and information therein as searchable by the experts and the respondents . In doing so the experts or respondents may use a web based interface to access the user interface or portal of the system . The experts can then create their profiles and update profile information using the user interface after an initial registration process.

In some embodiments once a respondent such as joins the network and subscribes with the credentialing system the information included in the profiles is ready for credentialing verification accreditation or any other such purpose. The entire profiles can thus be credentialed or verified by the crowdsourced experts . The credentialing may also determine the profiles as accurate or inaccurate trustable or non trustable authentic or unauthentic fraud or genuine etc.

In embodiments once the plurality of respondents joins the network the profiles are segmented into distinct portions or segments referred to as federated profiles by the federation or segmenting or federation engine . The segmenting engine is configured to receive the common profiles from the profile manager and segment them into the federated portions or segments or profiles. In an example the federation engine fragments a common profile of a respondent into a plurality of federated profiles based on commonalities in content of the federated profiles. The federated profiles are treated as distinct profiles for the purpose of credentialing separately by the crowdsourced experts . For example a common profile P of a respondent may include the following details 

For the purpose of simplicity of description only some specific details are included as an example in the above profile however several other details may also be included without limitations. The segmenting engine may be configured to segment the profile into distinct federated profiles. In an example the taxonomy of the profiles may be official and centrally managed or may be extended by any of the federation partners.

In some embodiments the above common profile may be segmented by the segmenting engine into several federated profiles as below 

As discussed above a single common profile is segmented by the segmenting engine in thirty five discrete federated profiles that are distinct in one or the other ways. In accordance with various embodiments the segmenting engine can be configured to segment a common profile in as many discrete federated profiles as possible. Therefore the entire information contained in a common profile is segmented into several discrete federated profiles. For example the above discussed common profile is converted into thirty five such federated profiles. Upon segmenting the federated profiles may be communicated to the federated profile manager . Thus the federated profile manager stores common profiles as well as federated profiles associated with the professionals or respondents in the profiles database .

The segmenting engine may include hardware and software components capable of computational tasks associated with segmenting of the common profiles into the federated profiles. Once segmented by the segmenting engine the federated profile manager may further classify the federated profiles or segments into groups of federated profiles for the same respondents so that the groups may include similar federated profiles based on certain parameters. For example the work experience related federated profiles and that define different companies where a respondent was employed and is employed may be grouped together do define another type of profile referred to herein as a sub profile. Similarly various other groups may be formed to create various other sub profiles based on several possible combinations of the federated profiles or segments or profile portions. The credentialing system thus can facilitate maintaining of the common profiles sub profiles and the federated profiles for the same experts thus providing a three level profile management facility. It must be appreciated that this document uses the term portion segment and federated profile interchangeably without limitations.

The credentialing system further includes the certification engine coupled to the segmentation engine and the federated profile manager . The certification engine is configured to allow the plurality of crowdsourced experts to respond to the segmented and classified profiles associated with the plurality of respondents and credential them. The credentialing of each of the segmented portions or federated profiles associated with a respondent contributes to credentialing of the entire profile of the respondent upon collation of the credentialed portions. For example the exemplary profile as discussed above includes thirty five segments. The credentialing of each of the segments influences overall credentialing of the entire common profile. Therefore if all the thirty five segments are credentialed and verified as correct by one or more experts a trust may be associated about the profile information and the information may be considered as true or authentic. As more and more crowdsourced experts verify the information in the federated profiles the trust associated with the respective segments increases. Further the crowdsourcing index may be associated to indicate and factor in the level of crowdsourcing. In an example the crowdsourcing index may bear a non linear such as exponential relationship with the number of experts. In an embodiment the CI is defined in a way that the number of respondents bears a non linear relationship with the reliability and trust level. Therefore the degree of reliability and trust may increase non linearly as more and more experts credential a respondent . Therefore the crowdsourcing may facilitate in credentialing more accurately and with a higher reliability of the federated profiles than that credentialed from only a few sources. Further the overall accuracy of the common profile may be determined based on a cumulative effect of accuracy of each of the federated profiles. For example if the first ten of the segments from the above common profile are verified and the remaining twenty five segments are not verified due to no response from the experts this may not yield an overall high accuracy of the common profile and may still require credentialing and verification of the remaining segments but may be considered as acceptable to a certain extent. On the contrary if the remaining twenty five segments are rejected and verified as wrong information by the experts the overall common profile may be considered as inaccurate. Further since the discrete federated profiles associated with a respondent are credentialed from the plurality of crowdsourced experts there may be a high level of accuracy in the credentialing and the credentialing may be considered as highly authentic and reliable.

The credentialing information when credentialed for each of the federated profiles is more accurate and valid and acceptable than the common profile verified in entirety where special attention may not be paid to every record of the common profile. Secondly the degree of acceptance of credentialing information is much higher through crowdsourcing than for a single verification by a single source. Therefore according to some embodiments herein number of sources credentialing a particular federated profile may be associated with each of the segments to indicate a level of accuracy of the credentialing information. For example if a federated profile is credentialed and verified by eighteen sources in the network it may be considered as highly acceptable. Also the relevant information about credentialing such as who credentialed when credentialed may also be associated with each credentialing of each of the segments so that an authenticity may be judged by associating an overall impact of the federated profiles credentialing number of times credentialed and trust factor about the source who verified and relevance about the time when verified. Therefore in such embodiments a multi scaled and cumulative score may be determined and multi scaled and cumulative credentialing may be done based on the multi scaled cumulative score determined. Further since a single federated profile may be verified by the plurality of crowdsourced experts therefore the credentialing system may determine an extent of inconsistency between several credentialing by several different experts for the same federated profile. In this manner the system may be configured to determine an index of inconsistency depending on distribution of differences across several credentialing by the several experts . The credentialing system may be configured to generate a map indicating extent and coverage of inconsistencies among the several responses and credentialing for the same federated profiles. The map together with the inconsistency index may facilitate in determination of a level of trust in the overall credentialing of the same federated profile. This process may be repeated for each of the federated profiles for a common profile of a respondent and thus may determine an overall index of inconsistency and overall distribution map and overall trust factor for the common profile.

In some embodiments various organizations or agencies such as for example document reviewing and inventions or ideas evaluation agencies may use the credentialing information index of inconsistency and distribution map as obtained from the system. The credentialing information may include information such as who verified or credentialed when verified how many times verified how many different and unique verifications trust factor associated with each verification based on such as a respondent s relationship with an expert or any other factor and other similar information. In some embodiments the credentialing information may be used by the respondents themselves so that they can use the credentialing information as a proof of expertise and submit it along with various application forms to companies hiring agencies firms healthcare centers hospitals or any other agency or organization financial institutions energy related companies logistic companies transportation companies and the like. Various types of information such as demographic personal work history educational information affiliation with hospitals or institutes etc. can be credentialed. The credentialed information may include such as person s name address practice specialties appointment status hospital associations credentials including educational background internships and residency programs state licensing information malpractice liability insurance information and personal and professional references. This entire information may be stored in the profiles database maintained by the federated profile manager .

In some embodiments the certification engine may be coupled to or may include a profiles certification database . The profiles certification database may include the credentialing information as discussed above. In some embodiments the profiles certification database may be included within the profiles database only and thus a single database may include memory spaces for storing the profiles information and the certification or credentialing information.

In some embodiments in creating the common profile and uploading profile information in the database a separate application form may be completed for each professional participating in and using the benefits of the system . The information in the application form may be preferably provided to the profiles database which may store respondents profile information using the system . The information may be stored as a series of logically organized respondents profiles and may be extracted as necessary during segmentation by the segmenting engine . In some embodiments the process of segmenting may be initiated by the segmenting engine automatically as and when new information is added or updated. In case the past information is modified the segmentation task is performed again to update the federated profiles and perform credentialing of the updated federated profiles once again. In such cases only relevant credentialing may be needed to be revised depending on the updates instead of rejecting the entire past federated profiles and credentialing information associated with them.

The profile information collection module may be configured to generate information about the plurality of respondents . In some embodiments the profile information collection module can be disposed separately from the federated profile manager while in other embodiments it can be included in or coupled to the federated profile manager . The profile information pertaining to profiles of the plurality of respondents can be generated by distributing application forms through a graphical user interface not shown in accessible by the respondents such that the respondents can fill the forms and submit with the system . The information can be transformed in the form of profiles by the federated profile manager . The segmenting engine may then use the profiles information and perform the task of segmenting of the common profiles into the federated profiles associated with each of the respondents .

The profile certification server may be communicatively coupled to or included in the profile management server . The profile certification server may include the certification engine a segment rating engine and a profile rating engine . The certification engine may further include a segment certification engine and a profile certification engine .

The segment certification engine may be configured to facilitate credentialing or certification of the federated profiles associated with the common profiles associated with each of the respondents . The segment certification engine is configured to allow the plurality of crowdsourced experts to respond to the federated profiles associated with the common profiles of the plurality of respondents and credential them. The credentialing of each of the federated profiles associated with the common profiles of each of the respondents contributes to credentialing of the entire common profile of the respondents upon collation of the credentialed federated profiles. As more and more experts from the plurality of crowdsourced experts verify the information in the federated profiles the trust associated with credentialing of the respective federated profiles increases. Therefore the crowdsourcing may allow credentialing of the federated profiles to a higher degree of accuracy and reliability. Since the discrete federated profiles associated with a respondent are credentialed from the plurality of crowdsourced experts the credentialing defines a high level of accuracy and may be considered as highly authentic and reliable and acceptable by third parties or agencies. Moreover the crowdsourcing index may be associated to factor in the effect of crowdsourced credentialing as discussed above.

The segment certification engine is adapted to certify the stored federated profiles relating to the respondents who must have their credentials verified. According to some embodiments herein a number of sources credentialing a particular federated profile may be associated with each of the segments to indicate a level of accuracy of the credentialing information. Also the relevant information about credentialing such as who credentialed when credentialed may also be associated with each credentialing of each of the federated profiles so that an authenticity may be judged by associating an overall impact of the federated profiles credentialing number of times credentialed and trust factor about the source who verified and relevance about the source and time when verified. Therefore in such embodiments a multi scaled and cumulative score may be determined and multi scaled and cumulative credentialing may be done based on the multi scaled cumulative score determined.

The information pertaining to credentialing of the individual federated profiles of a particular common profile associated with a respondent may influence an overall credentialing of the common profile. For example individual credentialing of the federated segments may contribute to the overall common profile credentialing such that the credentialing of the overall common profile may depend on each of the federated profiles credentialing with a weightage attached to each credentialing of the federated profiles. The collated contribution considering weightage effect of each credentialing finally decides credentialing of the overall common profile. The task of credentialing the overall common profile associated with a respondent may be performed by the profile certification engine . For example the profile certification engine may facilitate credentialing of the profile in entirety based on the collated effect of credentialing of the federated profiles associated with the common profile of a respondent . The profile certification engine may receive information pertinent to credentialing of each of the federated profiles associated with a common profile and then associate the defined weightages to each of the federated profiles and perform cumulative credentialing of the common profile. In an embodiment the weghtages may be determined based on parameters defined by a service provider who operates the system . In such embodiments the weightages may be defined based on for example past experiences or current understanding about significance of accuracy of credentialing for different segments. For example the accuracy of credentialing may be more important for work history than information pertinent to hobbies of a professional when applying for a job. Therefore the objective use of the credentialing information may influence determination of the weightages and hence the overall credentialing. Therefore a score indicative of the influence of the objective may be associated for the credentialing purposes in some embodiments. In some embodiments the weightages may be defined by an agency requiring the credentialing information. Therefore in such cases the profile certification engine may perform credentialing of the common profile in a custom defined manner and also in association with the objective score.

The profile certification server further includes the segment rating engine . The segment rating engine is configured to associate a rating to each of the credentialed federated profiles based on credentialing from the crowdsourced plurality of experts and depending on a level of accuracy and trust associated with the credentialing of the federated profiles. The rating may depend on who credentialed a federated profile when was a profile credentialed how many times a profile was credentialed how many unique credentials are done relevance of experts credentialing the federated profile relationship of the experts with the respondent of the credentialed federated profile and the like.

The profile certification server may further include the profile rating engine . The profile rating engine is configured to associate a rating to an entire profile based on credentialing of each of the federated profiles and ratings associated with each of the federated profiles as determined by the segment rating engine cumulatively.

The profile management server is coupled to the profiles database to store information pertinent to the profiles of the plurality of respondents . The profiles database may be coupled to the federated profile manager such that the federated profile manager maintains the information stored in the profiles database .

The profile certification server may be coupled to the profiles certification database . The profiles certification database is configured to store information pertinent to credentialing such as certification status of the federated or common profiles associated with the plurality of respondents . For example the certification status may include one or more of verified segment verified profile pending verification verification in progress segment rejected as incorrect profile rejected as incorrect and the like. The profiles certification database may be coupled to the profiles database and the certification engine .

The profile certification server may be coupled to a certified profiles database . The certified profiles database may further be coupled to the profiles certification database . The certified profiles database may be configured to store profiles that have been verified by the certification engine . An entity or any other agency may be allowed a direct access to the certified profiles database based on preferences and rules defined for the entity or the agency. The entity may be one of a medical entity such as a hospital nursing center doctor physician healthcare unit and government healthcare department or a financial institute or a logistic company or a transportation company or a company in the energy sector or any other third party or agency. The certified profile or credential database may further store information pertinent to one or more of work history education and personal demographics affiliations to hospitals or other institutes etc of one or more experts.

The profiles database profiles certification database and certified profiles database may be coupled to a profiles sources database . The profile sources database may include information about a plurality of sources in the crowdsourced network that are linked to the federated profiles associated with the plurality of the respondents and information about a plurality of sources who responds to the federated profiles for credentialing. For example in the crowdsourced network the plurality of experts may credential the federated profiles and thus the profiles sources database may store their details their names other information their relevance and relationship with the respondents associated with the federated profiles they credential and time of credentialing and location of original credentialing or any other such information pertinent to the credentialing sources etc.

The auto validation engine is configured to further certify the credentialing of the federated profiles that is performed by the certification engine . The second level certification by the auto validation engine is performed by using the information about the one or more respondents from the social networking platform . For example a respondent may be associated with a social networking website such as a Linkedin or Facebook. The respondent may maintain a separate profile for each such social networking website. The credentialing of the respondent for specific federated profiles may thus be further verified by using the information obtained from the social networking profiles.

In an embodiment the credentialing by the experts is used to associate a rating and define a level of trust for the federated profiles and the common profiles. The further verification based on the information obtained from the social profiles of the respondents may further associate another rating or score to the federated profiles such that a level of trust about the plurality of respondents and their federated and common profiles may be determined based on a cumulative effect of credentialing and the auto validation of the federated profiles and the common profiles. The cumulative score determined based on individual scores from the auto validation and the credentialing by the experts may define a net rating and overall credentialing of the federated profiles and the common profiles. The federated profiles and the common profiles in association with the information pertinent to the credentialing and the auto validation may thus be used or accessed by agencies or organizations or entities to determine a level of trust in the credentialed information i.e. the credentialed federated and thus common profiles.

The auto validation engine may include application programming interfaces APIs a social networking engine and a profile updating module .

The social networking engine is coupled to one or more social networking server . The social network engine which may be controlled by the social networking server is configured to process a request of the credentialing system for retrieving social profiles information and verifying the credentialed federated and common profiles by using the information obtained from the social profiles. The social networking engine is communicatively coupled to the social networking platform through the social network server to allow interfacing of the system with a social networking service. The social network server may provide a programmatic web interface via the network for accessing the social profiles by the system . In some embodiments the social networking server may store social data related to the one or more respondents obtained from the social profiles hosted by the social networking platform to integrate the social data with the credentialed federated profiles for further verification or updating of the credentialing by auto validation.

The social networking engine may utilize the APIs etc. to allow verification of the federated segments associated with the plurality of respondents based on the information contained in the social profiles of each of the respondents maintained by the social networking platform . In an embodiment the social profiles maintained by the social networking platform are distinct from the federated or common profiles of the respondents maintained by the federated profile manager . The APIs further allow the auto validation to determine an extent of mapping between the information contained in the two distinct profiles maintained by the federated profile manager and the social networking platform . The social networking platform may include several social networking sources. The social networking sources may include without limitations social networking websites educational institutions employers databases etc. For example a respondent may be associated with one or more of such or other similar social networking sources in the social networking platform . The APIs are adapted to link each of the federated profiles to one or more such distinct sources of the social networking platform such that a unique identifier is maintained that associate a distinct source of the social networking platform to a federated profile.

The profile updating module is configured to update or modify the profiles based on further verification of the federated profiles after auto validation. For example even after the credentialing by the experts the auto validation may demand to modify the federated profiles which the profiles updating module may do in some cases after seeking permissions from the respondents . The profile updating module may be communicatively coupled to the profile management server so as the federated profile manager to store and maintain the modified federated and common profiles.

The social networking platform may include for example one or more social networking sources. The sources may be such as social networking websites educational institutions employers databases or portals or platforms hiring agencies portals and other such sources of creating a socially aware network. Some examples of social networking websites are without limitations Linkedin MySpace About Me etc.

A service provider may deploy the credentialing system and provide credentialing services to various organizations or agencies that can be a hiring agency recruitment and selection or placement department or agency document or inventions or ideas reviewing and scoring and evaluation agencies an entity such as a hospital or a medical institute financial institute logistic company transportation company etc. The organizations such as document or inventions or ideas reviewing and scoring and evaluation organizations can deploy these systems in house for evaluation of ideas or documents. A respondent may submit his profile details to the service provider that may be stored in the system . The service provider may obtain verifications and credentialing of the profile details or other information provided by the respondent and may store the information pertinent to the credentialing of the information of the respondent

In an embodiment the credentialed expertise for each of the respondents allows classification of the respondents into distinct groups with each group tagged with a trust relationship identifier indicative of a trust and reliability that each group guarantees based on respective credentialed expertise. The trust relationship identifier is further associated with an information pertaining to a relevant domain expertise such that the trust and reliability indicated by the trust relationship identifier is guaranteed only in association with the relevant domain expertise.

In some embodiments the response scoring module includes a response aggregate score assessment engine comment analysis module comment aggregator semantics and analytics engine and response classification tagging module .

In some embodiments the response aggregate score assessment engine determines an aggregate score of the responses based on individual scores of the response from individual crowdsourced respondents corresponding to a federated case. The response aggregate score assessment engine may also utilize a non linear crowdsourcing index for determining the aggregate score. The comment analysis module may analyze review comments posted by the respondents while reviewing the cases. The comments serve as a learning and knowledge repository in evaluating the cases in detail. The aggregate score of the response may thus be associated with a subjective comment section for use by second level reviewers etc. The comment analysis module may be coupled to or may include the comment aggregator . The comment aggregator may collate comments from various individual respondents . For example the comment aggregator may collate similar types of comments together. The comment aggregator and comment analysis module may be coupled to the semantics and analytics engine that facilitates comments classification collation and analysis by implementing various semantics analytics and learning algorithms functions tools programs and the like. The semantics engine infers logical consequences from the review comments. The semantics engine utilizes semantics and learning tools to determine intent and contextual meaning of terms as they appear in content of the review comments to generate more relevant results. The response classification tagging module may determine a relevant category or taxonomy class and accordingly tag the response for the classified category. The category may be decided based on for example defined classes based on technology areas and sub areas based on reviews based on value of content and the like.

In an example various empirical relations may be used to determine the aggregate response score based on individual attributes of the crowdsourced respondents scores of the crowdsourced respondents response scores by individual respondents aggregation of the respondents scores aggregation of the attributes scores aggregation of the response s individual scores multi level crowdsourcing index and aggregation of multiple multi level crowdsourcing indices.

The method may further include defining a crowdsourcing index CI that is indicative of a crowd of respondents such that the CI and the level of reliability and trust bear a non linear relationship with one another in some embodiments. In some embodiments the CI is defined based on desired reliability and trust in the integrated response.

In some embodiments the method may include comparing the first session parameters with the second session parameters comparing the second session parameters with the third session parameters and generating a correlationship map between each of the first session parameters and the second session parameters and the second session parameters and the third session parameters. The correlationship map is indicative of the compliance.

In some embodiments the method may include determining the adjusted third session parameters based on a comparison of the second session parameters with the first session parameters in view of the threshold level.

In some embodiments the method may include assessing credentialed expertise of the respondents . The credentialed expertise is indicative of credibility of responses submitted by the respondents .

In some embodiments the method may include evaluating complexity of various portions of the medical case prior to federating the case into the federated cases based on the level of complexity of the portions wherein the complexity is evaluated based on inputs from a plurality of crowdsourced persons. In some embodiments the complexity is identified by using a crowdsourcing index CI that is indicative of a crowd of persons such that the CI and the complexity bear a non linear relationship with one another.

In some embodiments the method may include reviewing the integrated response and associating a score to the integrated response by crowdsourced experts such that the integrated response when published bears a rating indicative of the experts review and score. In some embodiments the scoring and reviewing utilizes a crowdsourcing index CI that is indicative of a crowd of experts involved in review and scoring such that the CI and a response rating based on review and scoring bear a non linear relationship with one another.

In another embodiment as shown in with reference to a searchable interface B includes a bar for the web platform that provides a unified way for defining one or more parameters in a multi parameter based multi functional manner. The multi parameter based and multi functional bar includes a plurality of axes each axis extending from a center of origin C of the axes . The axes are located around the center of the origin C of the axes such that each axis also defines a bar for a defined parameter. For example as shown in the axis A indicates a bar for defining complexity of the technology axis B indicates another bar for defining credentialed expertise axis C indicates a third bar for defining crowdsourcing index axis D indicates a bar for defining number of respondents axis E indicates a bar for defining a lag between the first and the second session parameters indicative of appropriateness of the responses axis F indicates a bar defining number of parameters considered in a particular session such as number of parameters in the first session or second session and the like. A user can adjust the parameters desired in his search by using one or more bars that define various parameters. Once the parameters are adjusted the user can search for the responses defined through the multi axis based bar . In an embodiment circumference of a circle touching end points of the axes defines highest value of the parameters and the center C of the circle defines minimum value of the parameters. In an embodiment the axes shows are exemplary and may include more axes to define more parameters. In an embodiment the interface B may also include a tab to select a crowdsourcing index CI non linear relationship such as an exponential relationship and the like between two variables. The variables can be such as number of respondents and trust associated with the responses. Based on selection of a particular relationship the searchable interface B can present a visual graph indicative of the nature of responses and the number of responses thus identified and also can indicate a comparative analysis of the responses using several other recommended relationships as desired. The interface B also includes a tab to define the technology of the search. The results of search are displayed in the output section .

The embodiments herein may be embodied as a computer program product configured to include a pre configured set of instructions which when performed can result in actions as stated in conjunction with the methods described above. In an example the pre configured set of instructions can be stored on a tangible non transitory computer readable medium or a program storage device. In an example the tangible non transitory computer readable medium can be configured to include the set of instructions which when performed by a device can cause the device to perform acts similar to the ones described here. Embodiments herein may also include tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such non transitory computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor as discussed above. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures objects and the functions inherent in the design of special purpose processors etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

The techniques provided by the embodiments herein may be implemented on an integrated circuit chip not shown . The chip design is created in a graphical computer programming language and stored in a computer storage medium such as a disk tape physical hard drive or virtual hard drive such as in a storage access network . If the designer does not fabricate chips or the photolithographic masks used to fabricate chips the designer transmits the resulting design by physical means e.g. by providing a copy of the storage medium storing the design or electronically e.g. through the Internet to such entities directly or indirectly. The stored design is then converted into the appropriate format e.g. GDSII for the fabrication of photolithographic masks which typically include multiple copies of the chip design in question that are to be formed on a wafer. The photolithographic masks are utilized to define areas of the wafer and or the layers thereon to be etched or otherwise processed.

The resulting integrated circuit chips can be distributed by the fabricator in raw wafer form that is as a single wafer that has multiple unpackaged chips as a bare die or in a packaged form. In the latter case the chip is mounted in a single chip package such as a plastic carrier with leads that are affixed to a motherboard or other higher level carrier or in a multichip package such as a ceramic carrier that has either or both surface interconnections or buried interconnections . In any case the chip is then integrated with other chips discrete circuit elements and or other signal processing devices as part of either a an intermediate product such as a motherboard or b an end product. The end product can be any product that includes integrated circuit chips ranging from toys and other low end applications to advanced computer products having a display a keyboard or other input device and a central processor.

The embodiments herein can include both hardware and software elements. The embodiments that are implemented in software include but are not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the embodiments herein can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can comprise store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

A representative hardware environment for practicing the embodiments herein is depicted in with reference to . This schematic drawing illustrates a hardware configuration of an information handling computer system in accordance with the embodiments herein. The system comprises at least one processor or central processing unit CPU . The CPUs are interconnected via system bus to various devices such as a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and an input output I O adapter . The I O adapter can connect to peripheral devices such as disk units and tape drives or other program storage devices that are readable by the system. The system can read the inventive instructions on the program storage devices and follow these instructions to execute the methodology of the embodiments herein. The system further includes a user interface adapter that connects a keyboard mouse speaker microphone and or other user interface devices such as a touch screen device not shown to the bus to gather user input. Additionally a communication adapter connects the bus to a data processing network and a display adapter connects the bus to a display device which may be embodied as an output device such as a monitor printer or transmitter for example.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

