---

title: Method and service for user transparent certificate verifications for web mashups and other composite applications
abstract: Embodiments for providing user transparent certificate verifications for web mashups and other composite applications are generally described herein. In some embodiments, a content buffer is provided for holding content until receiving verification results that allow the content to be presented in a browser user interface. A browser core receives an aggregation of content from a plurality of sources and performing local verification of digital certificates associated with the content received from the plurality of sources. A browser content interface intercepts content associated with verified digital certificates from the browser core to provide content associated with verified digital certificates to the content buffer for holding. An online certification module is arranged to receive untrusted certificates from the browser content interface and to perform verification of the received untrusted certificates using online certification services and/or local certificate store on the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081940&OS=09081940&RS=09081940
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09081940
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
Embodiments described herein pertain in general to transparent certificate validation for composite applications.

A web mashup is a web page or web application that uses and combines data presentation or functionality from two or more sources to create new services. The main characteristics of a mashup are combination visualization and aggregation. Users to make existing data more useful for personal and professional use. Web mashups and other composite applications enable dynamic web contents and enrich user experiences. This is especially the case for mobile users and workers e.g. sales force with most of the mobile applications moving to web based applications to improve information sharing and increase productivity.

While web mashups and other composite applications being an enabler to better user experience they also bring challenges to user experience due to the security controls. Herein mashups and composite applications will be referred to as composite applications considering mashups are one type of composition. These challenges arise because composite applications combine multiple existing functions and or data from different origins into a new application or new web content and most of the time the source functions and or data are not necessarily used for their original reason or purpose.

As a security precaution web browsers perform web server certificate validation. The web browser provides multiple user prompts for the user to decide on whether or not to allow web contents from sites based on the verification results. For example a user is often prompted with status of digital certificates of multiple sources that produce the result content based on certificate verification results from the browser. This is at a minimum an annoying user experience especially for mobile sales workers who use their mobile devices to increase productivity in what they call micro moments. During these micro moments mobile sales workers have just a few seconds to look something up or post something etc. However complicated certificate verification or other authentication processes may cause mobile users to abandon the effort.

In addition the certificate verification prompts provided to users are also a security concern to average users. Users may keep clicking on allow website content to go through the process if they want to get the results. In addition to user annoyance and security concerns it is also a burden for enterprise IT to manage web certificates and push the management controls to the client when exacerbated by the mashups.

Composite applications combine multiple existing functions and or content from different origins into a new application or new web content. As a security precaution web browsers perform web server certificate validation for the combined content and functions. However the web browser provides multiple user prompts to the user and waits for the user to decide on whether or not to allow web content from sites based on the verification results. A security issues arises when users continuous click on the allow website content prompt in order to quickly go through the process to allow the content to be presented by the browser. Embodiments described herein provide transparent certificate verifications for web mashups and other composite applications according to an embodiment. The embodiments provide streamline certification verification using a browser plug in that performs local digital certificate verification or that uses at least one online verification service that is accessed by an online certification module.

In the architectural rendering of a mashup includes several content sources. For example shows content being obtained from a database web services RSS Really Simple Syndication feeds and platform services . The content is aggregated in a mashup application and the aggregated content is presented in a client application . Data obtained from web services may be serialized to XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON . RSS feeds may be XML documents and many libraries exist to manipulate RSS feeds . The format and specification for RSS is well documented and understood with a few variations from version to version. Further the extensibility of RSS is also well known as demonstrated by the number of extensions in use today e.g. attachments added to the feeds information and location information creative commons licensing etc. Web services may include Web Services Description Language WSDL based web services and REST based web services with some web services exposing WSDL and REST styles. Web services provide additional data or transform the data being mashed up.

Platform services are included in because they may provide functionality beyond the request response model of traditional web services e.g. mapping services cloud based building block services such as storage in the cloud business communication platform services where communications may be relayed across a corporate firewall to expose internal services for consumption by business partners or third parties. Mashup composite applications provide a combination of middle tier services and lightweight business logic that may be used to combine data and or functionality from more than one source into an integrated tool. Client application is the application that presents the mashup or composite application to the user.

HTTP Secure HTTPS based web sites commonly use security certificates to verify a source of a message or data. A web browser operates as client application and validates that a TLS Transport Layer Security web server is authentic. In practice a web site operator obtains a certificate by applying to a certificate provider with a certificate signing request. The certificate request is an electronic document that contains the web site name contact email address and company information. The certificate provider signs the request thus producing a public certificate. During web browsing this public certificate is served to any web browser that connects to the web site and proves to the web browser that the provider believes it has issued a certificate to the owner of the web site.

A certificate verification prompt is followed by a question to the user Do you want to continue to display the web content from this website 

The user faces several challenges when using a mashup composite application . Because most of the mobile applications are web based and rely on some type of mashup and or composite application the user runs into the problem of being prompted multiple times to make decisions on certificate validation status provided by the web browser . There are essentially two challenges for the user here. The first challenge involves the unacceptable user experience when presented with multiple digital certificates. The second challenge occurs when the users makes the wrong choices the user is left with the option to keep clicking on accept to make selections regarding the digital certificates presented by the browser .

The web mashup composite application aggregates the data from the plurality of data sources into the mashup composite application contents to be presented to the user. Contents from the web mashup composite application are provided to the browser core . The browser core performs certificate validation on contents using certificates maintained by the browser core . After the browser core has performed its certificate validation task the browser content interface intercepts the contents from the browser core before it reaches the user puts the contents into the content buffer and sends web certificates with problems to a certificate verification application . A cloud verification service is provided to the certificate verification application in the client .

The cloud verification service is an external cloud service providing further certificate verification which may be a CA in a PKI solution. However the embodiments are not meant to be limited to a cloud CA in a PKI solution.

An enterprise verification and policy service is also coupled to the certificate verification application in the client . The enterprise verification and policy service provides further certificate verification and policies. As an example the enterprise verification and policy service may be an enterprise CA in a PKI solution. However the embodiments are not meant to be limited to an enterprise CA in a PKI solution. In addition to the role of policy provisioning and verification the enterprise verification and policy service may also receive updated information from the process via client feedback regarding the status of web certificates to therefore improve the management from an enterprise perspective.

The client may also include a local web certificate store that is coupled to the certificate verification application. The local web certificate store is a local database with historical information with different websites and associated certificate data along with user policies based on certificate status e.g. allows certain content from previously visited safe websites with expired certificates. The local web certificate store certificate verification application and verification aggregation engine may collectively be referred to an online certification module .

The certificate verification application receives untrusted certificates from the browser content interface . The certificate verification application verifies certificates with problems via the local certificate store the enterprise security certificate verification and policy service and or a cloud security certificate verification service based on properties problems of the certificates and availability of the services. Note that the certificate verification application is not designed to replace certificate validation by the browser core . Rather the certificate verification application receives untrusted certificates and access local web certificate store cloud verification server and or enterprise verification and policy server to determine whether untrusted certificates detected by the browser core may be verified to allow content associated with untrusted certificates to be released from the content buffer .

A verification aggregation engine aggregates the verification results provided by the certificate verification application after verification of the untrusted certificates is performed by certificate verification application . The verification aggregation engine then sends the aggregated verification results to the content buffer . In the meantime the verification aggregation engine may send feedback to the enterprise verification and policy service based on the aggregation and analysis. The content buffer temporarily holds the web content releases and or blocks content to the browser UI based on the verification results from the verification aggregation engine .

Accordingly the untrusted certificates received from the browser content interface by the certificate verification application are transparently verified by the certificate verification application using certification information from multiple sources . The verification process of multiple digital certificates from different sources in web mashups and other composite applications is also an automated solution so the user does not need to be distracted by monitoring the verification process of the untrusted certificates . Reducing user decision making on whether to allow content from untrusted sources until after verifying the certificates with different verification methods and then possibly providing a prompt for those that improve security. The verification aggregation engine may sends updates to the local certificate store based on the verification results of previously unknown or expired certificates. Also the certification verification application may be implemented as an independent security application an add on the Secure Enclave McAfee DeepSafe or as firmware. The transparent verification and automation of the process improves the user experience and assurance level on composite applications. Furthermore additional data points are provided for enterprise certificate management to better manage certificate status and push updates to enterprise clients.

Examples as described herein may include or may operate on logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules are tangible entities e.g. hardware capable of performing specified operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In an example circuits may be arranged e.g. internally or with respect to external entities such as other circuits in a specified manner as a module. In an example the at least a part of one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware processors may be configured by firmware or software e.g. instructions an application portion or an application as a module that operates to perform specified operations. In an example the software may reside on a machine readable medium. In an example the software when executed by the underlying hardware of the module causes the hardware to perform the specified operations.

Accordingly the term module is understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed specifically configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily e.g. transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a specified manner or to perform at least part of any operation described herein. Considering examples in which modules are temporarily configured a module need not be instantiated at any one moment in time. For example where the modules comprise a general purpose hardware processor configured using software the general purpose hardware processor may be configured as respective different modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a hardware processor for example to constitute a particular module at one instance of time and to constitute a different module at a different instance of time. The term application or variants thereof is used expansively herein to include routines program modules programs components and the like and may be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems microprocessor based electronics single core or multi core systems combinations thereof and the like. Thus the term application may be used to refer to an embodiment of software or to hardware arranged to perform at least part of any operation described herein.

Machine e.g. computer system may include a hardware processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a hardware processor core or any combination thereof a main memory and a static memory at least some of which may communicate with others via an interlink e.g. bus . The machine may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In an example the display unit input device and UI navigation device may be a touch screen display. The machine may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system GPS sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor. The machine may include an output controller such as a serial e.g. universal serial bus USB parallel or other wired or wireless e.g. infrared IR connection to communicate or control one or more peripheral devices e.g. a printer card reader etc. .

The storage device may include at least one machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures or instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the techniques or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside at least partially additional machine readable memories such as main memory static memory or within the hardware processor during execution thereof by the machine . In an example one or any combination of the hardware processor the main memory the static memory or the storage device may constitute machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated as a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that configured to store the one or more instructions .

The term machine readable medium may include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the techniques of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. Non limiting machine readable medium examples may include solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. In an example a massed machine readable medium comprises a machine readable medium with a plurality of particles having resting mass. Specific examples of massed machine readable media may include non volatile memory such as semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of transfer protocols e.g. frame relay internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP etc. . Example communication networks may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a packet data network e.g. the Internet mobile telephone networks e.g. channel access methods including Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time division multiple access TDMA Frequency division multiple access FDMA and Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA and cellular networks such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA 2000 1x standards and Long Term Evolution LTE Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802 family of standards including IEEE 802.11 standards WiFi IEEE 802.16 standards WiMax and others peer to peer P2P networks or other protocols now known or later developed.

For example the network interface device may include one or more physical jacks e.g. Ethernet coaxial or phone jacks or one or more antennas to connect to the communications network . In an example the network interface device may include a plurality of antennas to wirelessly communicate using at least one of single input multiple output SIMO multiple input multiple output MIMO or multiple input single output MISO techniques. The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Example 1 includes subject matter such as a device apparatus client or system for providing transparent certificate verifications for composite applications including a content buffer for holding content a browser content interface arranged to intercept an aggregation of content from a plurality of sources the aggregation of content associated with verified digital certificates and untrusted certificates to provide content associated with verified digital certificates to the content buffer for holding and an online certification module coupled to the browser content interface the online certification module arranged to receive from the browser content interface the untrusted certificates associated with the aggregation of content and to perform verification of the received untrusted certificates using online certification services and a local certificate store and providing verification results to the content buffer to allow the aggregation of content verified by the online certificate module to be presented in a browser user interface.

Example 2 may optionally include the subject matter of Example 1 further comprising a browser core for receiving an aggregation of content from a plurality of sources and performing local verification of digital certificates associated with the content received form the plurality of sources the browser core providing the aggregation of content form the plurality of sources for interception by the browser content interface.

Example 3 may optionally include the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 and 2 further comprising a browser user interface the content buffer determining whether to release or to block content being held to the browser user interface based on the verification results provided by the online certification module.

Example 4 may optionally include the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 3 further comprising a composite application for receiving the content from the plurality of sources and aggregating the content to produce the aggregation of content.

Example 5 may optionally include the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 4 wherein the online certification module comprises a certificate verification application coupled to the browser content interface to receive the untrusted certificates and a verification aggregation engine arranged to aggregates verification results produced by the certificate verification application.

Example 6 may optionally include the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 5 wherein the verification aggregation engine is arranged to send the aggregated verification results to the content buffer to provide feedback to online verification services based on the verification results produced by analysis of the untrusted certificates by the certificate verification application and to send updates to the local certificate store based on the verification results.

Example 7 may optionally include the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 6 wherein the online certification service comprises a cloud security certificate verification service and an enterprise security certificate verification and policy service and wherein the local certificate store comprise a local database with historical information with different websites and associated certificate data along with user policies based on certificate status.

Example 8 may include subject matter such as a method or means for performing acts including receiving at a browser core an aggregation of content from a plurality of sources performing at a browser core local verification of digital certificates associated with the content received form the plurality of sources intercepting by a browser content interface content associated with verified digital certificates and untrusted certificates from the browser core to provide content associated with verified digital certificates holding content obtained from the browser content interface in a content buffer until receiving verification results allowing the content to be presented in a browser user interface receiving at an online certification module untrusted certificates received from the browser content interface and performing by the online certification module verification of the received untrusted certificates using online certification services services and a local certificate store.

Example 9 may optionally be combined with the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 8 to further include providing by the online certification module verification results obtained from the verification of the received untrusted certificates using online certification services to the content buffer.

Example 10 may optionally be combined with the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 9 to further include determining by the content buffer whether to release or to block to the browser user interface content being held based on the verification results provided by the online certification module.

Example 11 may optionally be combined with the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 10 to further include receiving at a composite application the content from the plurality of sources and aggregating the content to produce the aggregation of content provided to the browser core.

Example 12 may optionally be combined with the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 11 wherein the receiving untrusted certificates at the online certification module further comprises receiving the untrusted certificates at a certificate verification application coupled to the browser content interface and aggregating verification results produced by the certificate verification application at a verification aggregation engine.

Example 13 may optionally be combined with the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 12 to further include sending by the verification aggregation engine the aggregated verification results to the content buffer providing feedback to online verification services based on the verification results produced by analysis of the untrusted certificates by the certificate verification application and updating the local certificate store based on the verification results.

Example 14 may optionally be combined with the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 13 wherein the performing by the online certification module verification of the received untrusted certificates using online certification services further comprises sending the untrusted certificates to a cloud security certificate verification service and to an enterprise security certificate verification and policy service to produce the verification results and wherein the local certificate store comprise a local database with historical information with different websites and associated certificate data along with user policies based on certificate status.

Example 15 may include subject matter such as means for performing acts or machine readable medium including instructions that when executed by the machine cause the machine to perform acts including performing at a browser core local verification of digital certificates associated with an aggregation of content received form the plurality of sources intercepting by a browser content interface the aggregation of content associated with verified digital certificates and unverified certificates from the browser core holding the aggregation of content obtained from the browser content interface in a content buffer until receiving verification results for the unverified certificates allowing the content to be presented in a browser user interface receiving at an online certification module the untrusted certificates received from the browser content interface and performing by the online certification module verification of the received untrusted certificates using online certification services and a local certificate store.

Example 16 may optionally be combined with the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 15 to further include providing by the online certification module verification results obtained from the verification of the received untrusted certificates using online certification services to the content buffer.

Example 17 may optionally be combined with the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 16 to further include determining by the content buffer whether to release or to block to the browser user interface content being held based on the verification results provided by the online certification module.

Example 18 may optionally be combined with the subject matter of any one or more of Examples 1 17 to further include receiving at a composite application the content from the plurality of sources and aggregating the content to produce the aggregation of content provided to the browser core.

The above detailed description discloses embodiments of a user transparent and automated solution to verify multiple digital certificates from different sources in web mashups and other composite applications. The embodiments provide the ability to reduce user decision making on whether to allow content from untrusted sources after verifying the certificates with different verification methods local certificate store enterprise CA cloud CA etc. . The client certificate store may be updated based on the verification results of previously unknown or expired certificates. Additional data points are provided for the enterprise certificate management to better manage certificate status and push updates to enterprise clients. The certification verification modules may be implemented as an independent security application an add on the Secure Enclave McAfee DeepSafe or a firmware.

The above detailed description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form apart of the detailed description. The drawings show by way of illustration specific embodiments that may be practiced. These embodiments are also referred to herein as examples. Such examples may include elements in addition to those shown or described. However also contemplated are examples that include the elements shown or described. Moreover also contemplate are examples using any combination or permutation of those elements shown or described or one or more aspects thereof either with respect to a particular example or one or more aspects thereof or with respect to other examples or one or more aspects thereof shown or described herein.

Publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s are supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to suggest a numerical order for their objects.

The above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. For example the above described examples or one or more aspects thereof may be used in combination with others. Other embodiments may be used such as by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The Abstract is to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure for example to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b in the United States of America. It is submitted with the understanding that it wilt not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. Also in the above Detailed Description various features may be grouped together to streamline the disclosure. However the claims may not set forth every feature disclosed herein as embodiments may feature a subset of said features. Further embodiments may include fewer features than those disclosed in a particular example. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with a claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. The scope of the embodiments disclosed herein is to be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

