---

title: Providing intelligent service provider searching and statistics on service providers
abstract: According to an exemplary embodiment of the invention, a method of discovering new service providers includes: displaying a graphical user interface that enables a user to enter current search data to perform a search for service providers of a service, performing a search using the current search data to generate a list of service providers that provide the service, and filtering out the service providers from the list that were previously employed by a given entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09400845&OS=09400845&RS=09400845
owner: FERRANDINO & SON INC.
number: 09400845
owner_city: Farmingdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130903
---
The present disclosure relates generally to service provider searching and more particular to searching for new service providers and providing statistics on service providers.

There are numerous service providers that provide services such as brick work carpentry plumbing painting lawn cutting sprinkler installation maintenance snow removal heating ventilation air conditioning HVAC system installation maintenance etc. The skill level cost and quality of these service providers may vary considerably.

When an operator of a business needs a certain job to be performed the operator performs a search of the internet. In order to perform such a search the operator needs to choose specific search terms. However if can be difficult to determine which search terms are most likely to yield the needed service provider. Further if a business has multiple operators time is wasted if each operator were to perform the exact same search. For example if two operators of the business are both looking for carpenters time is wasted if they both use the same search terms.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the invention a method of discovering new service providers includes displaying a graphical user interface that enables a user to enter current search data to perform a search for service providers of a service performing a search using the current search data to generate a list of service providers that provide the service and filtering out the service providers from the list that were previously employed by a given entity.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the invention a computer system for acquiring information about service providers includes a server comprising a memory storing a computer program and a processor executing the computer program. The computer program of the server is configured to output a first computer message to a client to format presentation of a graphical user interface GUI on the client the GUI enabling a user of the client to enter current search data to perform a search for service providers of a service. The client sends a second computer message to the server including the current search data. The computer program of the server performs a search using the current search data in the second computer message to generate a list of service providers that provide the service. The computer program of the server filters out the service providers from the list that were previously employed based on prior recorded information.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the invention a computer system to manage service providers includes a server comprising a memory storing a computer program and a database and a processor executing the computer program. The database stores a list of service providers indicating at least one service provided by each service provider and a corresponding score. The computer program of the server is configured to enable a user to search for service providers of a service and a result of the search includes only those service providers that have a score in the list above a threshold score. The computer program enables a given service provider access to the score of the given service provider for a given service.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention are discussed in further detail with reference to . This invention may however be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein.

It is to be understood that the systems and methods described herein may be implemented in various forms of hardware software firmware special purpose processors or a combination thereof. In particular at least a portion of the present invention may be implemented as an application comprising program instructions that are tangibly embodied on one or more program storage devices e.g. hard disk magnetic floppy disk RAM ROM CD ROM etc. and executable by any device or machine comprising suitable architecture such as a general purpose digital computer having a processor memory and input output interfaces. It is to be further understood that because some of the constituent system components and process steps depicted in the accompanying Figures may be implemented in software the connections between system modules or the logic flow of method steps may differ depending upon the manner in which the present invention is programmed. Given the teachings herein one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate these and similar implementations of the present invention.

Referring to the method includes displaying a graphical user interface GUI that enables a user to enter search data to perform a search for service providers S . The search portion of the GUI may include a search term field for entry by the operator of one or more search words characters or numbers and one or more logical connectors e.g. carpentry and painting .

In an exemplary embodiment the search data includes a selected search engine and the search portion of the GUI enables the user to select the search engine for performing the search e.g. Google Bing etc. .

In an exemplary embodiment the search portion of the GUI includes geographical filters. For example the search portion of the user may enable the user to limit his search to a certain geographical radius e.g. carpenter s within 10 miles or to a certain geographical region e.g. Nassau county Farmingdale etc. .

The radius search menu enables the user to limit their search by a selected geographic radius from the user s current location or a pre defined location such as the location of the company of the user. The search category type menu enables the user to select a manual search or to select an automatic search which considers the terms. The manual terms entry field enables a user to enter one or more search terms. In an exemplary embodiment the manual terms entry field is hidden or disabled when the automatic search is selected.

The trades menu enables the user to select one or more trades attributes to search for. The trades attributes may have been collected previously from vendors that already perform these trades or have these attributes. For example if the user is interested in finding a service provider that does carpentry and ceiling repair the user selects the appropriate choices from the trades menu and selects the search button to perform the search.

In the manual search a search is performed for service providers within the selected radius who perform the selected trades attributes using the manually entered search terms. In the automatic search a search is performed for service providers within the selected radius who perform the selected trades using previously collected search terms that have been used in the past to search for service providers who perform the selected trades.

The manually entered search terms can be added to the collected search terms. For example if the user had selected carpentry in the trades menu and entered the term wood worker in the manual terms entry field the term wood worker could be added to the collected search terms for the trade of carpentry .

The data entered into the GUI can be cleared by selecting the clear button and search criteria for a given search can be saved by selecting the save button . The GUI may include a selectable button keep alive that is used to make selected search criteria sticky. For example if the user had entered a search for vendors that perform asphalt maintenance within 50 miles and also selected keep alive the next time the user performs a search for vendors that do carpentry within 75 miles the current search would search for vendors that perform both asphalt maintenance within 50 miles and carpentry within 75 miles. By deselecting the keep alive the current search does not consider previously entered search criteria.

The searches are searches of the Internet using one or more search engines e.g. Google Bing Yahoo Yellowpages etc of a search engine group. A search engine group includes one or more search engines to be used in each search and may be predefined in the system. An exemplary embodiment of the mechanism for performing the searches and extracting data from the results will be discussed in more detail below.

The invention however is not limited to the GUI illustrated in as certain data entry fields menus buttons etc. may be omitted removed or re arranged. For example the GUI may include an additional menu that enables the user to select the specific search engines e.g. Google Bing Yahoo Yellowpages etc. that are to be used in the searching.

The GUI may be presented on a display of the system shown in as an example. The system includes a server communicating with one or more client computers . . . N across a computer network . Each client computer includes an I O unit e.g. . . . N which includes an input unit such as a keyboard and a mouse to launch a client process e.g. . . . . . . N to start the GUI and an output unit such as a display that presents the GUI.

The computer network may be a private wired or wireless network or a public wired or wireless network such as the Internet.

The server is configured to communicate across the Internet to perform the searches. The server includes a Front end process that communicates with one or more of the client processes . . . N. The Front end process provides messages for formatting presentation of the GUI.

The search portion of the GUI may include a selectable button e.g. see search button of that initiates the search once all of the necessary search data has been entered. For example once the search data has been entered into the search portion of the GUI and the search button has been selected a computer message may be formatted with the entered search data and sent to a remote server e.g. . For example the computer message may include the radius of the search indicate whether a manual automatic search is to be performed include manual search terms to be used in the manual search a list of the desired trades etc.

In an exemplary embodiment the clients and the server are located on the same machine and so the server is local relative to the clients. The message may be received by the Front end process for forwarding to the Back end process or the message may be sent directly to the Back end process without passing through the Front end process .

In an exemplary embodiment the Front end process extracts search data fields from the message e.g. search radius indicator of whether manual or automatic search is to be performed search terms filter values identities of search engines to be used in the search etc. and sends the contents of these fields to the Back end process .

The method of further includes performing a search e.g. by the Back end process using the entered search data for service providers vendors that provide the desired services or trades S . The search may use one or more pre defined search engines. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention a search includes using at least search provider or search engine such as Google Bing Yahoo Yellowpages etc. However the invention is not limited to any particular search engine and can be adapted to use additional search engines.

In an exemplary embodiment the Back end process makes a Representational State Transfer REST call to a search provider via an Application Programmer Interface API of the corresponding search provider to perform a given search.

Since the API of each search provider is different the Back end process is adapted to send each supported search provider API any necessary parameters specific to that search provider. In an exemplary embodiment the Back end process supports the Places API from Google the Phonebook API from Bing the LocalSearch API from Yahoo and the Search API from the Yellowpages.

In an exemplary embodiment the REST call is formatted to perform a search using Google by communicating through its Places API information such as the latitude and longitude of the user company the distance or range to search within the search terms to be used etc. A sub REST call can then be used on the results returned by the initial REST call to get the individual details. Google also returns all results using a single high level call.

In an exemplary embodiment the REST call is formatted to perform a search using Bing Yahoo or the Yellow pages by communicating through the Phonebook API the LocalSearch API and the Search API respectively information such as the latitude and longitude of the user company the radius to search within and the search terms. The results include a result count or a listing count and individual results corresponding to the count. The individual results can be parsed based on the count. For example a process may include a loop that continues to extract each result until a looping variable has reached the count.

In an exemplary embodiment for each search result XML parsing is used to strip out the needed parameters and is either used directly or translated into a common set of parameters. Each set of results may be grouped together to perform mass import into the database . In an exemplary embodiment only results for service providers that are unique are stored into a section e.g. a table of prospects of the database but all statistics are stored into another section e.g. a table of statistics of the database . For example if a first search using first search terms for a service provider performing carpentry yielded John Smith through a Google search and a second search using second other search terms for a service provider performing carpentry also yielded John Smith John Smith is not added again to the table of prospects but the fact that John Smith showed up again in a Google search is added to the table of statistics. For example the table of statistics could indicate that John Smith appeared twice so far in Google Searches for carpentry. As an example the database is a relational database.

Referring back to after the searches have been performed the method includes filtering out the service providers vendors based on prior recorded information such as whether the service providers were previously employed by a given entity e.g. person company etc. S . The prior recorded information is stored in the database e.g. .

The Back end process retrieves the prior recorded information from the database to be used in the filtering. In an exemplary embodiment the prior recorded information indicates at least one of the following for each service provider a the identity of the service provider e.g. first name last name business name b the address of the service provider e.g. street town county state country latitude longitude etc. c contact information for the service provider e.g. phone number e mail address fax number etc. d service information indicating which services trades provided by the service provider e.g. carpentry painting plumbing gardening snow removal electrical etc. e hire information f legal information g price information h quality information i timeliness information j communications etc.

In an exemplary embodiment the hire information indicates whether a provider vendor was previously employed by a given entity or currently employed or under contact with the entity or has never been previously been hired by the company or is not currently employed or under contract . The hire information may additionally indicate the identity of the entity that is currently employing or previously employed the service provider. The hire information may indicate the date the service provider was hired.

In an exemplary embodiment the legal information indicates at least one of whether the service provider has liability insurance what licenses the service provider has to operate particular machines vehicles and whether the provider has been convicted of a felony or another crime that would prevent the company from employing the provider etc.

In an exemplary embodiment the price information indicates the price that the service provider charges for each service or an overall price qualifier e.g. expensive reasonable cheap etc. . The price information may include his standard rate his overtime rate his holiday rate etc.

In an exemplary embodiment the quality information indicates the overall quality of the service provider e.g. good average excellent bad etc. or the quality of the service provider in each service he provides e.g. good carpenter bad plumber etc. .

In an exemplary embodiment the timeliness information indicates the overall timeliness of the service provider e.g. always on time rarely on time usually on time or the timeliness of the services he provides carpenter work always on time plumbing work rarely on time .

In an exemplary embodiment the communication information indicates a history of communications transactions between the company and the service provider e.g. hired provider in June 2002 contacted provider in December 2012 to inquire about availability etc. .

The prior recorded information may also indicate whether the service provider is on a do not call list whether the service provider provides emergency services etc.

Since an embodiment of the invention filters out the server providers that have never been previously hired the embodiment can be used to efficiently discover new service providers so only these newly discovered service providers are contacted. For example it may be assumed that information such as services provided availability and cost of services are already present in the database for those providers that have been previously hired by the company. Thus if it is the goal of a user to contact new service providers it would be inefficient to include previously hired service providers in the results.

The Back end process searches the database to determine whether the service providers discovered by the search are already present in the database. For example the Back end process could perform one or more SQL select statements on one or more tables of the database storing information about prior recorded service providers to determine whether a service provider discovered by the search is present in the database and retrieve the data stored in the database for that service provider.

For example assume a Google search for painters yielded John Smith at address A with a first contact number Fred Thomas at address B with a second contact number and George Wallace at address C with a third contact number. Then the Back end process would search the database for the above service providers namely John Smith Fred Thomas and George Wallace. For convenience of explanation it is assumed that the database either has none or one matching entry for each of these service providers. If Fred Thomas is not present in the database Fred Thomas along with at least his contact information from the Internet search is added to the filtered results so an operator knows how to contact him to inquire about his availability for painting.

In an exemplary embodiment the database includes an entry for each service provider discovered by the Internet searches or manually entered where each entry includes at least some of the above described prior recorded information.

In an exemplary embodiment an entry includes additional data such as whether the service provider is blacklisted and the reason for the blacklisting e.g. felony convictions etc . In an exemplary embodiment in addition to filtering out the previously employed service providers the service providers not previously employed who have been blacklisted are also filtered out.

The method of may further include storing information of the filtered results in the database S . For example based on the above example Fred Thomas is not already present in the database. Thus the Back end process creates a new entry for Fred Thomas in the database . This new entry may include the identity of the service provider e.g. Fred Thomas his contact information e.g. initial search may have yielded phone number fax number etc. his hiring status as never hired previously and potentially the services he provides if they could be parsed from the search results.

If John Smith is already in the database he is added to the filtered results if his hiring information indicates he was never hired previously. For example a second user e.g. using client2 may have performed a different search for painters yesterday that discovered John Smith and added him to the database but since the second user had not yet hired him his hiring information is still set to never hired . If George Wallace is also in the database but his hiring information indicates he was previously hired or is a current employee of the company he is not added to the filtered results.

The GUI may automatically filter out service providers previously hired or may include a selectable option which allows the user to specify whether the current search should filter out such service providers.

The Back end process provides the filtered results to the Front end process for output to the client process e.g. that requested the search for display. For example based on the above search for painters and the filtered results the client process displays Fred Thomas John Smith and their contact information.

The user can manually contact each of the service providers provided in the displayed results to learn about the service provider e.g. services provided costs of services licenses held availability etc. and potentially hire the service provider.

In an exemplary embodiment the user automatically contacts one of the service providers by selecting its entry in the filtered results. For example selection of the entry may start a voice over IP program that dials the phone number of the service provider to enable the user to speak with the service provider using microphone and speakers or a headset e.g. part of I O . In an exemplary embodiment selection of the entry enables the user to automatically send a text message an instant message a social network message or an e mail message to the service provider.

In an exemplary embodiment the GUI includes a mechanism for entering the learned service provider information e.g. service provider also does plumbing and or to update his hiring information e.g. hired do not call etc. for each of the service providers returned in the filtered results into the database . For example in an exemplary embodiment selection by the user on a service provider entry of the filtered results displays a window enabling the user to enter information for one or more information fields corresponding to an entry for the corresponding service provider in the database .

If the user is unable to reach the service provider the user can enter information documenting efforts to contact the service provider e.g. contacted service provider on Sep. 21 2012 etc. for storage in the database for association with the service provider. The GUI may include a selectable option that enables a user to filter out potential new service providers who were contacted without success more than a pre determined number of times. For example there is no point in continuously contacting a service provider that is unreachable.

In an exemplary embodiment the method may further include adding the search terms used to perform the search for a service provider of the service to a list that is stored in a database S . For example the list may include an entry for each service and the search terms used to search for that service. The entry may be structured to include pairs of search terms and the search engine used. Each time the current user or a new user performs a new search for the same service an entry in the list for that service will include any new search terms and search engine pairs entered.

For example as shown in the GUI includes a trades menu for selecting one or more trades e.g. services among several available trades for searching and a manual terms entry field for entering the search terms. For example if the user wants to search for a carpenter the user selects carpentry from the trades menu and enters terms into the manual terms entry field he believes are likely to result in new service providers that perform carpentry e.g. wood work carpenter repairing wood fence etc. . Thus in an exemplary embodiment the database stores an entry for each trade e.g. asphalt maintenance carpentry ceiling repair etc. and all of the search terms tried or the search terms tried in combination with the search engine selected. Since some of the search terms tried may not provide results they can be omitted from storage. For example if the user misspells carpenter as carpentre and enters this word in his search for carpenters and it does not provide a carpenter in the search results the term carpentre need not be added to the list of search terms associated with the trade service of carpentry.

In an exemplary embodiment the search performed by the Back end process is an aggregate search e.g. the automatic search that uses prior stored search terms that were entered for that trade service to perform the search. illustrates a method of discovering new service providers based on these prior stored search terms. Referring to the method includes displaying a GUI that enables a user to select a service S loading list pairs of search terms and search engines associated with the selected service S and performing searches for service providers that provide the service using the loaded pairs S . Like the method of it can be determined whether service providers in the results of these searches have been previously employed by determining whether prior recorded information for these service providers is present. Then like the method of the service providers from the results that were previously employed may be filtered out S and information from the filtered results may used to update the prior recorded information .

In an exemplary embodiment in addition to the user selecting a service in step S the user also enters search terms and optionally a search engine and in addition to the searched performed based on the loaded pairs a search is performed using the entered search terms and search engines.

In an exemplary embodiment the GUI can display all the previously entered search terms used to search for a particular service so the user knows if he is entering a duplicate term.

An aggregate search for a service provider that provides a service of painting could then include for example include a Google search for painter a Google search for paints a Bing search for painter and a Bing search for paints. In an exemplary embodiment the database only stores the pairs of search terms and search engines that were best for retrieving results for a given service. For example if no results were returned for the Google and Bing searches for paints the next time an aggregate search for a service provider who performs painting is performed the search e.g. see S would only include the Google and Bing searches for painter. Further those searches that returned less than a threshold amount of results may be omitted from being stored. For example if the Google search for painter retrieved 12 results and the Bing search for painter retrieved 2 results and the threshold is set to 3 the Bing search for painter would not be part of the next aggregate search for a service provider that provides a painting service.

In an exemplary embodiment data in the database is full Text and the database can be searched by applying fuzzy search criteria wild card along with search terms entered into the GUI. For example if the user were to misspell carpenter in the manual terms entry field as carpentex the system can replace some of the letters of the entered term with a wildcard e.g. carpent and search the database for any service providers that provide services that begin with carpent . If the user enters different terms in their search the system can break them up and place wild cards between them to find similar matches to any of the terms.

In an exemplary embodiment the GUI enables the user to present a list of service providers for a given service in an order based on internally generated scores. Those service providers that do not exceed a threshold score may be omitted from the list. The service providers not previously hired may also be omitted from the list. The rule for generating the score may be configured by a supervisor. For example the Back end process may manage an account for a supervisor that enables the supervisor to logon to the server to create the rule. The rule for calculating a score for a service provider may include a sum of sub scores where each sub score corresponds to a different factor and a different weight is applied to each sub score. The factors for example may include quality of work timeliness of work cost etc. For example a sub score for each factor could be a number from 1 to 10. For example a rule for generating a score that favors quality Q and cost C over timeliness T could be represented by Score 2 Q 2 C 1 T.

In an exemplary embodiment the server is capable of maintaining statistics and providing these statistics to users including the service providers. For example the server may manage accounts for service providers who logon to these accounts to view these statistics. The statistics may include the score of the service provider for each service whether the score is considered a good score e.g. is it above average average below average etc. and the sub scores used to calculate the score. For example if a service provider learns he is below average for painting and sees his timeliness sub score is extremely low he can take corrective action to improve his score to increase his chances of receiving more work.

The server may also maintain statistics on what search engines found each service provider for each service or what search engines were best for finding each service provider for each service. For example if Bing searches for painters yielded Fred Thomas but Google searches did not this service provider would benefit from knowing that he needs to take corrective action to ensure that he appears in Google searches. In an exemplary embodiment the database include a statistics table having entries for each service provider and a count for each search engine which corresponds to the number of times that service provider appeared in a search using that search engine or appeared in list returned by that search engine at a suitable point within the list. For example if a search engine produces 2 pages of results the service provider is more likely to be chosen for subsequent work if he appears on the 1page of results rather than the 2page.

The computer system referred to generally as system may include for example a central processing unit CPU a GPU not shown a random access memory RAM a printer interface a display unit a local area network LAN data transmission controller a LAN interface a network controller an internal bus and one or more input devices for example a keyboard mouse etc. As shown the system may be connected to a data storage device for example a hard disk via a link . CPU may be the computer processor that performs some or all of the steps of the methods described above with reference to .

Although the illustrative embodiments have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be affected therein by one of ordinary skill in the related art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. All such changes and modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the invention.

