---

title: Selection and ranking of comments for presentation to social networking system users
abstract: When a social networking system receives a request from a requesting user for a content item associated with one or more comments, the social networking system determines an interest score for each comment. The interest score for a comment indicates a measure of the user's likelihood of being interested in the comment. Based on the calculated interest scores, the social networking system selects one or more comments for presentation to the viewing user along with the content item. The social networking system may specify an order in which the selected comments are presented based on the interest scores of the selected comments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152675&OS=09152675&RS=09152675
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09152675
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to social networking systems and more specifically to ranking user provided comments associated with content such as posts in a social networking system.

Social networking systems have become prevalent in recent years because they allow their users to easily connect to and communicate with other users. Through social networking systems users share a variety of content. Examples of content items shared by users through a social networking system include pictures videos articles and status updates. Typically social networking system users may comment on content shared by other users. For example a user may provide a comment indicating its thoughts on an article shared by another user via the social networking system.

Some content items receive a large number of comments e.g. 30 or more comments . For example a large number of comments may be received for content items including controversial subject matter or posted by a user connected to a large number of additional social networking system users. Hence when a user attempts to view comments for some content items the user will likely be overwhelmed by the number of comments and lose interest in viewing the comments.

To better present comments on received content to a user of a social networking system the social networking system selects comments for presentation to the user and determines an order for presenting the content. For example when the social networking receives a request from a user to view an interface including content item associated with at least a threshold number of comments the social networking system selects a set of comments for presentation to the user and an order for presenting the selected comments. To select comments for presentation the social networking system calculates an interest score for each comment associated with a content item. A comment s interest score indicates a measure of the likelihood that the user viewing the comment will be interested in the comment. Based on the calculated interest scores the social networking system selects one or more comments for presentation to the requesting user. The social networking system may also order the selected comments based at least in part on their interest scores. The social networking system transmits instructions to a client device of the user identifying the selected comments and an order for presenting the selected comments based on their interest scores.

Social networking system users may also reply to comments associated with a content item. A reply is content associated with a comment whereas a comment is directed to the content item itself a reply is directed to one of the content item s comments or possibly to another reply. If a comment selected for presentation is associated with one or more replies the social networking system determines whether to present one or more of the replies with the selected comment. To determine whether to present a reply the social networking system calculates an interest score for each reply that indicates a measure of the likelihood that the user will be interested in the reply and selects replies with interest scores equaling or exceeding a threshold for presentation. In one embodiment if multiple replies associated with a comment are selected for presentation the social networking system may rank the selected replies based on their interest scores and present the selected replies in an order based on the ranking. The social networking system transmits instructions to the client device identifying the selected replies and the order in which to present the selected replies.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

In the example of a comment count is also displayed that indicates a total number of comments associated with content item . As shown in the comment count indicates the content item has 2 071 comments. When the content item is initially presented to a user a specified number of the comments associated with the content item are presented to the user. In this example two comments comments and are initially presented.

The social networking system selects comments and from the 2 071 comments for presentation based on an interest score calculated for each comment associated with the content item . A comment s interest score indicates a measure of the likelihood that the user viewing the content item will be interested in the comment. In one embodiment the social networking system selects comments and for presentation because they have the highest interest scores of the 2 071 comments. Alternatively comments and are selected for presentation because they have at least a threshold interest score. Therefore comments and are presented to the user because they are most likely to be of interest to the user.

An additional interface element is presented along with comments and and if the user accesses the additional interface element additional comments are retrieved from the social networking system for presentation to the user. shows presentation of additional comments and along with comments and when the additional interface element is selected. The comments and are ordered according to their respective interest scores where the comment with the highest interest score is displayed first the comment with the second highest score is displayed second and so on. Therefore instead of ordering the comments and in a chronological order based on when they were provided to the social networking system comments and are presented in an order based on the likelihood of the user having an interest in each comment and .

However presenting comments in an order based on likelihood of user interest rather than in chronological order makes it difficult for users to create a conversation by responding to comments by other users. For example if a user posts the comment Jane what do you think about this picture If Jane responds with a comment ordering comments according to their interest scores may cause the responding comment to be displayed in a location distant from the comment including the question with other comments separating the comment including the question and the comment including the response. This type of presentation may confuse a user viewing the comments.

To allow users to engage in conversations a reply interface element is presented along with a comment. By accessing the reply interface element a user may associate a reply with the comment proximate to the accessed reply interface element . The reply is associated with the comment and includes user provided content. Additionally the number of replies may be displayed along with a comment. For example as shown in the number of replies indicates that comment has received 29 replies . If a viewing user requests to view the replies to comment replies associated with comment are retrieved and presented to the viewing user as shown in . As shown in replies are displayed indented from their associated comment to illustrate the relationship between the replies and the comment. However in other embodiments any suitable display format may be used to differentiate replies from comments. In one embodiment shown in replies are ordered in chronological order according to the time when they were received by the social networking system. This allows users to provide replies to a comment to establish a conversation with each other.

The client devices are one or more computing device capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. Alternatively a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smart phone or another suitable device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

One or more third party systems may be coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system which is further described below in conjunction with . In one embodiment a third party system is an application provider communicating information describing applications for execution by a client device or communicating data to client devices for use by an application executing on the client device . In other embodiments a third party system provides content or other information for presentation via a client device . A third party system may also communicate information to the social networking system such as advertisements content or information about an application provided by the third party system .

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . Examples of information stored in a user profile include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also include content items e.g. images or videos stored in the content store which were provided by the user of the profile to the social networking system for sharing with other users. In certain embodiments a content item may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed or referenced in the item. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log .

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing individuals to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the social networking system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity.

The content store stores objects that each represent various types of content. Examples of content represented by an object include a page post a status update a photograph a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a brand page or any other type of content. Social networking system users may create objects stored by the content store such as status updates photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking system events groups or applications. In some embodiments objects are received from third party systems or third party applications separate from the social networking system . In one embodiment objects in the content store represent single pieces of content or content items. Hence users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. This increases the amount of interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system .

In one embodiment comments provided by users for a content item are stored in the content store along with the associated content item. As described above a comment may be a remark of a user expressing an opinion or reaction or any other user provided data. For example a comment associated with a content item is text or other data expressing a user s opinion or reaction to the content item. A comment may include text data image data video data audio data links to other content or any other suitable information. Additionally replies associated with a comment are stored in the content store along with the corresponding comment. An association between a reply and a comment is also included in the content store . A reply may also be associated with a reply with the association stored in the content store . A reply may include text data image data video data audio data links to other content or any other suitable information.

As described herein a user provides a comment or reply to the social networking system is also referred to as user posting the comment or reply. In one embodiment for a stored comment or reply the content store includes the time and date when a comment or reply was posted the user posting the comment or reply a geographic location associated with the comment or reply a type of device used for posting the content or reply the number of users that have expressed a preference for the comment or reply identifiers of users expressing a preference for the comment or reply the dates and times when the preferences for the comment or reply were expressed the number of users that have identified a comment as unwanted user identifiers of users identifying a comment or reply as unwanted and the dates and times when the comment or reply was identified as unwanted. The information stored for comments and replies may be maintained in the content store based on information stored in the action log described below.

The action logger receives communications about user actions internal to and or external to the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Examples of actions include adding a connection to another user posting a comment posting a reply sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. In addition a number of actions may involve an object and one or more particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well and stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as actions on third party systems that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system and information describing these interactions is stored in the action log . Examples of interactions with objects include commenting on content items replying to a comment sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items and any other interactions. Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system that are included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communicating with a user establishing a connection with an object joining an event to a calendar joining a group creating an event authorizing an application using an application expressing a preference for an object liking the object and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log may record a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as with other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of a user augmenting the interests included in the user s user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on a third party system such as an external website and communicated to the social networking system . For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through a social plug in enabling the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may communicate information about a user s actions outside of the social networking system to the social networking system for association with the user. Hence the action log may record information about actions users perform on a third party system including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

In one embodiment the edge store stores information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system .

In one embodiment an edge may include various features each representing characteristics of interactions between users interactions between users and objects or interactions between objects. For example features included in an edge describe rate of interaction between two users how recently two users have interacted with each other the rate or amount of information retrieved by one user about an object or the number and types of comments posted by a user about an object. The features may also represent information describing a particular object or user. For example a feature may represent the level of interest that a user has in a particular topic the rate at which the user logs into the social networking system or information describing demographic information about a user. Each feature may be associated with a source object or user a target object or user and a feature value. A feature may be specified as an expression based on values describing the source object or user the target object or user or interactions between the source object or user and target object or user hence an edge may be represented as one or more feature expressions.

Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored as a single edge in the edge store in one embodiment. Alternatively each interaction between a user and a specific object is stored as a separate edge. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

The affinity scorer calculates affinity scores for users of the social networking system based on information stored in the action log and the edge store . Affinity scores are computed by the affinity scorer over time to approximate a user s interest in objects or other users of the social networking system . Affinity scores may be based on a variety of factors. For example the number of connections to additional users common to a user and another user may be used to determine the user s affinity for the other user. Additional examples of information used to determine a user s affinity for another user include the type of connections to additional users shared between the user and the other user the number of interactions the user has had with the other user how recently the two users have interacted with each other and the number of interactions the user has had with content shared by the other user. Computation of affinity scores is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 254 filed on Nov. 30 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 689 969 filed on Nov. 30 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 088 filed on Nov. 30 2012 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In one embodiment the social networking system identifies stories likely to be of interest to a user through a newsfeed presented to the user. A story presented to a user describes an action taken by an additional user connected to the user and identifies the additional user. Examples of an action described by a story include a user posting sharing a content item a user expressing a preference i.e. liking for an object and a user updating its profile. In some embodiments a story describing an action performed by a user may be accessible to users that are not connected to the user that performed the action. The newsfeed manager may generate stories for presentation to a user based on information in the action log and in the edge store or may select candidate stories included in content store . One or more of the candidate stories are selected and presented to a user by the newsfeed manager .

For example the newsfeed manager may receive a request to present one or more stories to a social networking system user. The newsfeed manager accesses one or more of the user profile store the content store the action log and the edge store to retrieve information about the identified user. For example stories or other data associated with users connected to the identified user are retrieved. The retrieved stories or other data are analyzed by the newsfeed manager to identify content likely to be relevant to the identified user. For example stories associated with users not connected to the identified user or stories associated with users for which the identified user has less than a threshold affinity are discarded as candidate stories. Based on various criteria the newsfeed manager selects one or more of the candidate stories for presentation to the identified user.

In various embodiments the newsfeed manager presents stories to a user through a newsfeed including a plurality of stories selected for presentation to the user. The newsfeed may include a limited number of stories or may include a complete set of candidate stories. The number of stories included in a newsfeed may be determined in part by a user preference included in user profile store . The newsfeed manager may also determine the order in which selected stories are presented via the newsfeed. For example the newsfeed manager may determine that a user has a highest affinity for a specific user and increase the number of stories in the newsfeed associated with the specific user or modifies the positions in the newsfeed where stories associated with the specific user are presented.

The newsfeed manager may also account for actions by a user indicating a preference for types of stories and selects stories having the same or similar types for inclusion in the newsfeed. Additionally newsfeed manager may analyze stories received by social networking system from various users to obtain information about user preferences or actions from the analyzed stories. This information may be used to refine subsequent selection of stories for newsfeeds presented to various users.

The comment scorer calculates and maintains comment scores of comments associated with content items stored in the content store . As described below comment scores are used by the comment ranker to select comments for presentation to a user. In some embodiments the comment scores may be used to determine an order in which the selected comments are presented. A comment score for a comment indicates the popularity of the comment among users or the likely popularity of the comment among users. The comment score may be based on prior user interactions with the comment. For example a comment for which a large number of users have expressed a preference may have a higher comment score than a comment that has been marked as unwanted.

The comment scorer calculates a comment score for a comment associated with a content item using multiple characteristics of the comment. Examples of characteristics used to calculate a comment s comment score include the total number of users that have expressed a preference for the comment i.e. that liked the comment the number of users that have expressed a preference for the comment within a threshold time period e.g. in the last week the total number of times the comment has been marked unwanted by users the number of times the comment has be marked as unwanted within a threshold time period e.g. in the last week the number of times within a threshold time period that users have expressed a preference for comments posted by the user that posted the comment associated with the item i.e. the commenter the number of times that users have marked comments posted by the commenter as unwanted within a threshold time period whether the user that posted the content item associated with the comment indicated a preference for the comment whether the user that posted the content item associated with the comment indicated the comment was unwanted whether the user that posted the content item also posted the comment whether the social networking system automatically marked the comment unwanted or any other suitable information.

Another characteristic that may be considered when determining a comment score of a comment is similarity between a topic included in the comment and the topic of the content item associated with the topic. In one embodiment to determine whether the comment addresses a similar topic to that of the content item the comment scorer identifies the text of the comment and text included with the content item. The comment scorer compares the text of the comment with text of the content item to determine the number of words common to the comment and the content item. Based on the number of common words the comment scorer determines whether the comment addresses a similar topic to that of the content item. For example if a threshold number of words are common the comment scorer determines the comment and content item address a similar topic. Alternatively to identify topics associated with content items and comments the comment scorer identifies anchor terms included in a content item and in a comment. The meaning of the anchor terms for the content item and for the comment are determined as further described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 167 701 filed Jun. 24 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Based on the meaning of the anchor terms from the content item and the comment the comment scorer determines if the comment and content item address a similar topic.

Also a characteristic that may be considered when determining a comment score of a comment is a reputation of the commenter. The commenter may have a bad reputation for example if it is believed that the commenter is pretending to be someone else i.e. commenter created a fake account . However a commenter may have a good reputation if the commenter has connections with many different users or has connections with high profile users e.g. celebrities .

In one embodiment the comment scorer associates each characteristic with a specified value and combines the values to generate a comment score. The value contributed by a characteristic may be a positive number a negative number or zero. For example if the user that posted the content item marked the comment as unwanted a value of 5 may be applied to the interest score. However if the user did not mark the comment as unwanted a value of 1 is applied to the interest score. The values contributed by each characteristic are combined to determine the comment s interest score. Different weights may be associated with the different values when they are combined. For example a comment score for a comment is determined using the following function CommentScore total number of users that expressed a preference for the comment 3 number of users that expressed a preference for the comment in the last week 1 number of times comment has been marked as unwanted 10 whether user that posted content item also posted comment 

As shown in the scoring function above applying weights to different characteristics allows different characteristics to differently influence the interest score. For example in the above function more weight is given to the number of users that expressed a preference for the comment in the last week than to the total number of users that have expressed a preference. The additional significance of the users expressing a preference for the comment within the last week is caused by the increased value of the weight applied to the number of users expressing a preference for the comment within the past week.

In one embodiment the comment scorer initially calculates the comment score of a comment when the comment is provided to social networking system and periodically updates the comment score. The comment scorer may update the comment score of a comment after a user interacts with the comment by for example expressing a preference for the comment or marking it as unwanted. Alternatively the comment scorer updates a comment s comment score at periodic time intervals.

The comment ranker selects comments for presentation to a user. Additionally the comment ranker may determine the order in which selected comments are presented to the user. A user may request an interface that includes one or more content items from the social networking system . For example a user requests a user profile from the user profile store that includes a content item. As another example a user may request a newsfeed generated by the newsfeed manager that includes multiple content items. When content requested by a user includes a content item associated with a threshold number of comments the comment ranker retrieves interest scores for each of the comments from the comment scorer and selects comments for presentation based at least in part on the interest scores.

To select comments for presentation the comment ranker identifies comments associated with content item from the content store . For each identified comment the comment ranker calculates an interest score indicating a measure of the likelihood that the user that requested the content i.e. the requesting user will be interested in the comment. In one embodiment to calculate the interest score of a comment the comment ranker identifies an affinity score between the requesting user and a user providing the comment from the affinity scorer and retrieves a comment score for the comment from the comment scorer . The comment score indicates the popularity or likely popularity of the comment among social networking system users in general. The comment ranker combines the affinity score and comment score to obtain the interest score for the comment. In one embodiment the affinity score and comment score are combined by summing the two scores. In other embodiment the affinity score and comment score are multiplied or combined in any other suitable manner.

The comment ranker selects a set of comments from the identified comments for presentation based on their associated interest scores. For example the comment ranker selects a specified number of comments e.g. three comments for initial presentation with the content item in the interface. In one embodiment the comment ranker selects a set of comments having the highest interest scores alternatively the comment ranker selects a set of comments having at least a threshold interest score. The comment ranker transmits the selected set of comments to the client device of the requesting user for presentation with the content item. In one embodiment the comment ranker also ranks the selected set of comments based on their interest scores and transmits to the client device instructions to display the set of comments in an order based on the ranking. For example the comment ranker instructs the client device to display the set of comments from highest interest score to lowest interest score. In this example the comment from the set of comments with the highest interest score is displayed proximate to the content item while the comment with the lowest interest score is displayed farthest from the content item.

If the content item is associated with a greater number of comments than the number included in the set of comments an option to request additional comments to view is presented to the requesting user along with the set of comments. If the requesting user requests additional comments the comment ranker selects an additional set of comments from the identified comments based on their associated interest score. The additional set of comments may include a specified number of additional comments e.g. 10 additional comments . The comment ranker transmits the additional set of comments to the client device for presentation and may transmit an order in which to present comments in the set of comments and in the additional set of comments. As described above the order for presentation of the comments may be based on their corresponding interest scores. Therefore comments are presented in an order that reflects the requesting user s a predicted interest of the requesting user for each displayed comment.

The reply scorer calculates and maintains reply scores of replies provided by users for content items. As described below reply scores are used to determine whether to present a reply to a user along with its associated comment. Similar to a comment score a reply score indicates a reply s popularity or likely popularity to users of the social networking system .

The reply scorer calculates a reply score for a reply associated with a comment based on various characteristics of the reply. Examples of characteristics of a reply used to determine a reply score include the total number of users that expressed a preference for the reply the number of users that expressed a preference for the reply within a threshold time interval the total number of times the reply has been unwanted as unwanted by users the number of times the reply has been indicated as unwanted by users within a threshold time interval whether the user that posted the comment showed a preference for the reply whether the user that posted the content item associated with the comment indicated a preference for the reply whether the user that posted the comment indicated the reply was unwanted whether the user that posted the content item associated with the comment indicated the reply was unwanted whether the user that posted the content item also posted the reply whether the user that posted the comment also posted the reply whether the social networking system automatically indicated the reply as unwanted and whether reply is associated with the same topic as the comment or the content item. In one embodiment in various characteristics of a reply contribute a value to the reply score. The value may be a positive number a negative number or zero. As described above various weights may be associated with different characteristics. The values of one or more characteristics are combined to calculate a reply score of the reply.

The reply scorer may calculate an initial reply score when a reply is initially received by the social networking system and update the reply score at periodic intervals. Alternatively the reply scorer updates a reply score when users interact with the corresponding reply e.g. by expressing a preference for the reply or indicating the reply as unwanted .

The reply selector selects replies for presentation to a user. When the comment ranker selects comments for presentation to a requesting user the reply selector determines whether to present one or more of the replies associated with one or more of the selected comments. To determine whether to present a reply associated with a selected comment the reply scorer identifies one or more replies associated with the selected comment from the content store . For each identified reply the reply selector calculates an interest score indicating a measure of the likelihood that the requesting user will be interested in the reply.

To calculate a reply s interest score the reply selector identifies an affinity score between the requesting user and a user providing the reply from the affinity scorer and retrieves a reply score for the reply from the reply scorer . The reply score indicates the popularity or likely popularity of the reply among social networking system users in general. The reply selector combines the affinity score and reply score using any suitable method e.g. summing the affinity score and reply score multiplying the reply score and the affinity score etc. to determine the interest score for the reply.

In one embodiment the reply selector selects replies having at least a threshold interest score for presentation. If no replies have an interest score of at least the threshold interest score the reply selector does not select any replies associated with a comment for presentation. Replies having at least the threshold interest score are presented along with their associated comment. In one embodiment a specified number of replies having at least the threshold interest score e.g. two replies are selected for presentation with the associated comment. In one embodiment the reply selector selects a number of replies having the highest interest scores for presentation. The reply selector transmits the selected replies to the client device for presentation with the comment. In various embodiments the selected replies may be displayed chronologically based on when they were received by the social networking system displayed based on their interest scores or displayed based on any suitable criteria. When the selected replies are presented in the interface the requesting user is also presented with an option to request a complete listing of replies associated with the comment. Additionally when a comment is presented the requesting user may provide an input requesting presentation of replies associated with the comment.

If the requesting user requests the replies of a comment the reply selector transmits the replies associated with the comment from the content store to the client device of the requesting user. The reply selector also transmits instructions to the client device of the requesting user for displaying the replies associated with a comment in chronological ordered starting with the earliest reply. Ordering replies in chronological order allows the requesting user to view conversations among users among the replies.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party systems . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. Additionally the web server may receive and route messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text messages short message service SMS messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information e.g. images or videos to store in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or RIM .

For each identified comment the social networking system calculates an interest score indicating a measure of the likelihood that the requesting user will be interested in the comment. Calculation of an interest score for a comment is further described above in conjunction with . The social networking system selects comments for presenting the requesting user based on the interest scores associated with the comments. As described above in conjunction with comments having at least a threshold interest score are selected or comments having the highest interest scores are selected . The social networking system transmits instructions to the client device to present the selected comments. In one embodiment the transmitted instructions include an order for presenting the selected comments which may be based at least in part on the interest scores associated with the selected comments.

The social networking system determines whether one or more identified replies are associated with an interest score equaling or exceeding a threshold. If no identified replies have interest scores at least equaling or exceeding the threshold the process ends and no replies are presented to the requesting user. However if one or more replies have an interest score at least equaling or exceeding the threshold the social networking system selects these replies for presentation to the requesting user. The social networking system transmits instructions to the client device to present the selected replies and may also specify presentation of the selected replies in an order such as an order based on the interest scores of the replies.

If the social networking system receives a request from the requesting user to show replies associated with the comment the social networking system retrieves replies associated with the comment and transmits an instruction to the client device to present the retrieved replies in a chronological order based on the time and date when the replies were provided to the social networking system . The request to show replies may be received when the comment is initially presented or after presentation of one or more selected replies.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

