---

title: Apparatus and methods of providing and receiving venue level transmissions and services
abstract: A venue-cast system and method for providing and receiving venue level transmissions and services, including discovery of a venue specific transmission by receiving an overhead signal from a non-venue network, extracting information for receiving the venue specific transmission from the overhead signal, and tuning to receive the venue specific transmission based on the extracted information. The venue level transmission may be provided and received in a manner that does not prevent an access terminal from receiving a local area or wide area transmission.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497495&OS=09497495&RS=09497495
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09497495
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131210
---
The present application is a divisional of commonly assigned patent application Ser. No. 12 569 792 entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS OF PROVIDING AND RECEIVING VENUE LEVEL TRANSMISSIONS AND SERVICES filed Sep. 29 2009 which itself claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 101 545 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING MOBILE TV TO A VENUE filed Sep. 30 2008 Provisional Application No. 61 106 409 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING MOBILE TV TO A VENUE filed Oct. 17 2008 Provisional Application No. 61 108 828 entitled INTEGRATED TERRESTRIAL BROADCAST AND LOCAL AREA VENUE CAST SERVICE OPERATION VIA ALTERNATIVE AIR INTERFACE TECHNOLOGIES filed Oct. 27 2008 Provisional Application No. 61 144 055 entitled INTEGRATED TERRESTRIAL BROADCAST AND LOCAL AREA VENUE CAST SERVICE OPERATION VIA ALTERNATIVE AIR INTERFACE TECHNOLOGIES filed on Jan. 12 2009 and Provisional Application No. 61 147 990 entitled VENUE CASTING IN MUSIC CONCERTS filed Jan. 28 2009 Provisional Application No. 61 101 992 entitled SERVICE AND APPLICATION MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK FOR VENUE SPECIFIC SERVICES filed Oct. 1 2008 Provisional Application No. 61 101 994 entitled DESIGN FOR IN BAND VENUE CAST OVER filed Oct. 1 2008 each of which is assigned to the assignee hereof and the entire contents of each of which are hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Electronic devices such as mobile telephone handsets and other terminals may be configured to receive a variety of multimedia content items such as sports entertainment informational programs or other multimedia content items via broadcast multicast or unicast transmission.

Visitors to venues such as theme parks shopping malls stadiums trade shows conventions campuses cruise ships concert halls airports museums and fairs have a plethora of options for attractions or items of interest within the venue. As such these visitors often have a desire for venue related information. In traditional broadcasting the smallest addressable area of broadcast content is the Local area Operational Infrastructure LOI which covers a defined geographical region. For example the smallest LOIs generally correspond to a metropolitan region. As with all broadcasts over a large geographic area difficulties arise in addressing content to consumers having varying interests within the large broadcast area. Therefore there is a need for a service that transmits content on a smaller venue scale so that venue specific information can be provided to venue visitors.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Aspects described in the application enable the benefits of broadcast to be applied to smaller venues such as an amusement park concert hall sporting event shopping center restaurant airport or museum.

Aspects include a method for discovery of a venue specific transmission comprising receiving an overhead signal from a non venue network extracting information for receiving the venue specific transmission from the overhead signal and tuning to receive the venue specific transmission based on the extracted information.

Aspects may further include the overhead signal being received from a BCMCS network or from a mobile broadcast network having a coverage area in which the venue is located.

Aspects may further include receiving the venue specific transmission during a first time slot in a mobile broadcast transmission receiving a transmission from the non venue network during a second time slot that overlaps and extends beyond the first time slot receiving the transmission from the non venue network only on a reserved portion of the frequency band during the first time slot receiving the venue specific transmission on at least a portion of the frequency band receiving a second overhead signal from a venue transmitter on the frequency band wherein further identification information for the venue specific transmission is included within the second overhead signal receiving a pilot positioning channel signal wherein a first portion of the pilot positioning channel signal is received from the non venue network and a second portion of the pilot positioning channel signal is received from a venue transmitter and or detecting the availability of a supplemental service guide requesting the supplemental service guide via one of a unicast a scheduled multicast and a scheduled broadcast.

The information for receiving the venue specific transmission includes information about the type of venue specific transmission and an energy ratio for the venue specific transmission.

The overhead signal from the non venue transmitter may be received during a first time slot and the overhead signal from the venue transmitter is received during a second time slot reserved for venue transmission overhead information.

A portion of the pilot positioning channel may be reserved portion of the frequency band that is reserved for transmissions from the non venue network during an inactive state.

Aspects may further include storing information regarding the geographic boundary for the venue transmission monitoring a current location and when the current location is within the geographic boundary for the venue transmission searching for the venue transmission.

Aspects may further include receiving user input to search for a venue specific transmission and searching for service relating to venue specific transmission in response to receiving the user input.

The extracted may include at least one of a frequency on which the venue transmission is transmitted a venue identifier a type of venue transmission and information on obtaining a service guide for the venue transmission.

Further aspects include an apparatus for receiving a venue specific transmission comprising means for receiving an overhead signal from a non venue network means for extracting information for receiving the venue specific transmission from the overhead signal and means for tuning to receive the venue specific transmission based on the extracted information.

Further aspects may include a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium comprising code for causing a computer to receive an overhead signal from a non venue network code for causing a computer to extract information for receiving a venue specific transmission from the overhead signal and code for causing a computer to tune to receive the venue specific transmission based on the extracted information.

Further aspects may include apparatus for receiving a venue specific transmission comprising a receiver for receiving an overhead signal from a non venue network a processor for extracting information for receiving the venue specific transmission from the overhead signal and a communications component for tuning to receive the venue specific transmission based on the extracted information

Further aspects may include the receiver being configured to receive the venue specific transmission during a first time slot in a mobile broadcast transmission the receiver being configured to receive a transmission from the non venue network during a second time slot that overlaps and extends beyond the first time slot the receive receiving at least a portion of the non venue network transmission and the venue specific transmission on a frequency band and being configured to receive the transmission from the non venue network only on a reserved portion of the frequency band during the first time slot the overhead signal being received on a frequency band and the receiver being configured to receive the venue specific transmission on at least a portion of the frequency band the information for receiving the venue specific transmission including information about the type of venue specific transmission and an energy ratio for the venue specific transmission the receiver being configured to receive a second overhead signal from a venue transmitter on the frequency band wherein further identification information for the venue specific transmission is included within the second overhead signal the overhead signal from the non venue transmitter being received during a first time slot and the overhead signal from the venue transmitter being received during a second time slot reserved for venue transmission overhead information the receiver being configured to receive a pilot positioning channel signal wherein a first portion of the pilot positioning channel signal is received from the non venue network and a second portion of the pilot positioning channel signal is received from a venue transmitter a third portion of the pilot positioning channel being reserved portion of the frequency band that is reserved for transmissions from the non venue network during an inactive state and or the extracted information including at least one of a frequency on which the venue transmission is transmitted a venue identifier a type of venue transmission and information on obtaining a service guide for the venue transmission.

The apparatus may further include memory storing information regarding the geographic boundary for the venue transmission a location determination component configured to monitor a current location of the apparatus a service detection component configured to search for the venue specific transmission when the current location is within the geographic boundary for the venue specific transmission a user interface to receive user input to search for a venue transmission a service detection component configured to search for service relating to venue transmission in response to receiving the user input and or a service guide component for detecting the availability of a supplemental service guide.

The service guide component may be further configured to request a supplemental service guide via one of a unicast a scheduled multicast and a scheduled broadcast.

Aspects may further include a method of receiving venue specific content at a mobile device the method comprising receiving information regarding the availability of a venue transmission extracting information for receiving the venue transmission receiving the venue transmission decoding the content of the venue transmission and providing the decoded content for presentation at the mobile device.

Aspects may further include a method of transmitting venue specific content the method comprising receiving venue specific content from a venue content provider and receiving information regarding a local area transmission and transmitting the venue specific content in combination with the local area transmission at a venue transmitter.

Aspects may further include a method of transmitting venue specific content to a venue coverage area the method comprising receiving venue specific content from a content provider and transmitting the venue specific content to a venue coverage area via a static Broadcast Multicast Service BCMCS .

Aspects may further include a method of wirelessly transmitting venue specific content the method comprising receiving venue specific content from a content provider providing overhead information to enable an access terminal to access the venue specific content and transmitting the venue specific content to a plurality of access terminals within a boundary of the venue.

A method of planning a visit to a venue through the reception of a venue specific transmission at a mobile device the method comprising receiving a venue transmission of information regarding the availability of a plurality of attractions at the venue receiving a venue transmission with the wait time for each of the plurality of attractions at the venue creating a list of available attractions determining a first location of the mobile device within the venue receive a user input identifying desired attractions within the list of available attractions removing all attractions from the list if the attraction was not identified as a desired attraction determining the time required to reach each desired attraction from the first location of the mobile device determining a total visit time for each desired attraction by adding the time to reach the desired attraction to the received wait time selecting a first attraction having the minimum total visit time and displaying the selected attraction.

Aspects may further include a method of indicating that a venue dedicated mobile device is outside the venue the method comprising storing a defined first geographic area in the mobile device the geographic area being within the venue determining the geographic location of the mobile device determining if the mobile device is located within the defined first area and signaling an alarm if the mobile device is determined to be within the defined first area.

Aspects may further include a method of indicating that a venue dedicated mobile device is outside the venue the method comprising storing a defined central point of the venue storing a defined periphery of the venue determining the geographic location of the mobile device determining if the mobile device is located between the central point and the defined periphery and signaling an alarm if the mobile device is determined to not be between the central point and the defined periphery.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Visitors to venues are often interested in venue related information. The described aspects provide a transmission service on a geographic scale associated with the venue thereby providing venue visitors with venue related information. As used herein the term venue or the terms geographic scale associated with a venue mean a location at which an event or local hotspot is present or an area where a number of people gather for a common activity or interest. A venue transmission is also referred to interchangeably herein as a venue cast. A venue cast system may include applications directed to the venue specific information. The venue information may be either previously created information live information or a combination of previously created information and live information. The transmission may be targeted to dedicated devices that may be purpose built for the venue to multipurpose wireless mobile devices that can be used beyond a particular venue or to a combination of dedicated and multi purpose devices.

The venue cast system may transmit information via unicast multicast and or broadcast. It is noted that broadcast provides spectral efficiencies over unicast or multicast and can provide content to a large number of users at a lower cost. Any of these technologies however may be applied in a venue cast system.

As with all broadcasts over a large geographic area difficulties arise in addressing content to consumers having varying interests within the broadcast area. To enable broadcasts to address varying interests within the broadcast area the described aspects provide a larger area delivery of general content that is integrated with a smaller area delivery of venue specific content. For example the described aspects enhance the service coverage of terrestrial mobile TV as well as providing value added service to mobile broadband services such as 3G cdma2000. This type of event based or venue based service referred to as venue cast has the potential of becoming an attractive value added service to current mobile broadcast customers.

The described aspects efficiently deliver the venue cast content to mobile broadcast customers and enhance the user experience with a smooth integration at a mobile device between venue cast channels such as may be received from a WAN or hotspot technology and broadcast channels such as may be received from a mobile broadcast technology including but not limited to a FLO channel in the MediaFLO system or other wireless network broadcast technologies. MediaFLO technology is described in further detail in Flo Technology Overview available via Floforum at http www.floforum.org technology MF WP TechOverview.pdf and Mux to Transmit Station Interface MTI Document available via Floforum at http www.floforum.org the entire contents of both of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

With reference to a mobile broadcast system enables a venue cast service provided by a local data access point utilizing a unicast multicast or broadcast technology to be integrated with a broadcast service such as a wide area broadcast service provided by a media broadcast network for consumers who use purpose built or multi mode mobile devices . Also illustrated is cellular network that transmits signal to device . For example some of the illustrative applications include mobile TV mobile advertisement and up to date media distribution via clip cast and data cast and any venue or location specific content. In some aspects for example the venue cast service may use a broadcast service such as a MediaFLO type broadcast. In other aspects for example the venue cast service can leverage a static Broadcast and Multicast Service BCMCS . In other aspects the venue cast service can leverage a cellular network . Alternatively or in addition venue cast service can combine unicast dynamic BCMCS and adaptive resource allocation to maximize air link efficiency and enable dynamic on site service features such as venue application download to enhance service flexibility.

Venue cast content is provided by venue cast content provider to access point which transmits the venue cast content to one or more mobile devices for example via a venue cast channel . Further efficient delivery of other area content received from a content provider is managed by the media broadcast network e.g. the MediaFLO system . A broadcast transmitter transmits a transmission containing broadcast content such as mobile television channels to the mobile device . In one aspect included in this media transmission is one of a plurality of media channels e.g. audio video etc. . In the venue coverage area mobile device is operable to receive process and switch between both the wide area channel s and the venue cast channel s enabling a user to experience both the wide area content as well as the venue cast content .

Thus the described aspects enable mobile device to provide a seamless user experience with access to venue cast content via a unicast multicast or broadcast transmission with wide area content via a different transmission.

In order to receive a venue cast channel the mobile device is advantageously augmented by a venue cast discovery component that detects the availability of a venue transmission such as by detecting availability of a venue supplemental service guide SG . For example as part of periodically waking up to check for pages by a radio access network RAN such as the broadcast network the mobile device can also listen for an Internet Protocol IP packet indicating the availability of venue specific transmissions such as announcing a current version of a venue supplemental service guide that can be requested via unicast or via a scheduled multicast or broadcast. If the mobile device does not have the current version for example as determined based on a version number then the mobile device can obtain it based on the announcement. The mobile device also may receive periodic updates to a broadcast network area service guide SG which for example may be broadcast by the transmitter . A SG integration component merges the information from the two SGs to generate a combined service guide accessible via a user interface on mobile device to provide a seamless user experience. In addition a fast switch wide area venue switching component keeps up to date on parameters for obtaining and presenting the venue cast channel as well as the wide area broadcast channels so that a user can rapidly switch between channels from the two different sources in a manner similar to switching between two wide area channels which also enhances a seamless user experience.

Thus the mobile broadcast system delivers venue cast service via a local area or venue specific network wireless network in combination with a media broadcast service via a second network such as but not limited to MediaFLO system or other wireless broadcast systems to users of multi mode mobile devices to provide an integrated service experience. The underlying local area or venue specific network can be WAN or hotspot deployment providing a transmission received by multimode mobile device for example but not limited to a multi mode cellular WiFi and broadcast MediaFLO system terminal. Variations of the described system can also utilize other transmission technologies with the benefit of aspects disclosed herein.

Further in order to provide optimal user experience in application level integration of venue and wide area channels the described aspects can provide efficient venue service discovery efficient delivery of venue cast content seamless user interface UI operation with smooth channel switching between wide area and venue services and seamless service guide integration at the terminal and venue cast billing via subscription to one of the wide area packages or via on the spot on demand charging. Deployment of these aspects can thus be localized broadcast in one cell without interference from or interfering with neighboring cells. Alternatively deployment can be localized broadcast over one tier of cells. As a further alternative deployment can be localized broadcast over two tiers of cells. As yet another alternative deployment can employ a dedicated carrier deployment.

The combined transmission may be created such that mobile device inside the LOI coverage area receiving separate transmissions of the wide area transmission and the local area combined transmission will be able to decode both transmissions without interference.

Venue system provides a venue cast coverage area located at least partially within LOI . The venue cast system includes at least one transmitter at venue . Venue specific content is provided via a venue specific content feed that may include real time or pre recorded content. The venue specific information is transmitted to a coverage area for the venue via transmitter in such a manner that it does not interfere with the reception of either the wide area or the local area transmissions by an access terminal located within the venue coverage area. For example in one aspect the venue system may receive either the wide or local area transmissions such as via satellite or over the air and may insert the venue content and transmit a venue combined transmission.

The venue cast system may include one or more of a locally situated Operations Center OC cameras datacast servers and one or more transmitters at the venue. The transmitters may transmit video audio and or data streams. A video signal may include an audio component very similar to a traditional TV model. An audio signal may be applied to views from multiple cameras or each camera may include individual audio. The transmitters may be broadcast emitters unicast emitters and multicast emitters. Broadcast emitters may broadcast video audio and or data streams for example via UHF. A venue broadcast network may include a one way linear or looping format. The broadcast network may be based on the MediaFLO service from QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif.

The venue transmission system may further include an on site network having an RF transmission subsystem including a power amplifier transmitter antenna a modulator or exciter an encoder and or a multiplexer. Additional on site and off site elements may be included in the venue transmission system in order to support insertion interactivity network management provisioning conditional access and billing as desired.

With reference to one aspect of a delivery hierarchy of mobile broadcast content via an air interface may be defined in terms of allocation across licensed spectrum and unlicensed spectrum . It should be understood however that this is but one example and that venue cast service may be delivered via a licensed and or unlicensed spectrum. Licensed spectrum can be grouped into two classes. A first class of broadcast technologies cellular share the spectrum with unlicensed spectrum such as wide area network WAN often referred to as WiFi . Third generation cellular class includes a 3GPP category including Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service MBMS 314 and 3GPP2 category such as Broadcast Multicast Service BCMCS . In particular in such 3G systems cdma2000 EV DO or W CDMA High Speed Packet Access HSPA a fraction of the resource time slots or code channels are reserved from the WAN to deliver broadcast content. Examples of these technologies include EV DO BCMCS and W CDMA MBMS. The second class of licensed broadcast technologies provide content delivery over dedicated spectrums via terrestrial mobile TV in which case the entire frequency band is allocated to broadcast at all times. Examples of mobile TV include but are not limited to MediaFLO DVB H ISDB T and or T DMB systems . Given the similarity in spectrum allocation and usage among the broadcast with dedicated spectrum it should be appreciated that use of the MediaFLO system in examples throughout this document is illustrative and can be extended to other broadcast systems in this domain.

The venue cast system may use in band delivery techniques such as a broadcast including both wide local area and venue specific content or out of band delivery techniques such as different transmission mediums that separately include one of the wide local area or venue specific content. In band broadcasts may be implemented in a number of ways such as via time sharing frequency sharing superposition gray coding multiple input multiple output MIMO and single antenna repeater technologies. Out of band techniques may include utilizing broadcast in combination with 3G or 4G cellular network technologies. For example multicast transmits to multiple users simultaneously and provides an efficient use of 3G network resources. Multicasting enables the provision of real time streaming capability and clip casting to wide audiences. 3G multicast technologies such as BCMCS allow for the delivery of similar content to a wide audience with minimal spectral usage. Another out of band technique includes the use of unicast or transmitting and receiving from individual access terminals which allows venue cast information to be accessed on demand at a user s convenience. Unicast allows for additional content and interactivity. A content server may also redirect unicast traffic to multicast traffic based on the increase of user density in a venue area. Through the use of both unicast and multicast real time live content may be streamed on demand stored content may be streamed on demand additional stored content may be streamed to a user during network non busy hours information such as games statistics schedules etc. may be downloaded to enhance a user s venue cast experience. Live local events may be streamed and live venue specific non local content may be streamed to a user.

An open and independent application programming interface API platform may provide support for different operating systems and different user interfaces. The API platform may be aware of the air interface information when content is available. The API may feed different platforms such as BREW Java WM Linux etc. This facilitates the development of third party applications running on different platforms. Applications such as a service guide games advertising etc. can be downloaded over the air to different kinds of 3G devices.

Mobile broadcast such as the MediaFLO system is a technology that enables attractive services to consumers among which some of the applications include mobile TV mobile advertisement and up to date media distribution via clip cast and data cast multiple real time audio and video streams individual non real time video as well as IP datacast application data such as stock market quotes sports scores and weather reports. The MediaFLO system is assignee s innovation to broadcast data to portable devices such as cell phones and PDAs. The MediaFLO system transmits data on a frequency separate from the frequencies used by current cellular networks. In the United States the MediaFLO system will use frequency spectrum 716 722 MHz which was previously allocated to UHF TV Channel 55. Other broadcast systems may include the Korean T DMB standard and the European DVB H standard.

With regard to modulation and coding in the current US implementation the MediaFLO system is transmitted by a network of high power broadcast transmitters operating at powers as high as 50 Kilowatts. This allows for a coverage area of a transmitter to be on the order of tens of kilometers up to as large as 30 40 km. The transmission is an encrypted orthogonal frequency division modulation OFDM set of Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM signals sent on a 5.55 MHz channel centered at 719 MHz e.g. the former ultra high frequency UHF television TV Channel 55 also known as the Lower 700 MHz Block D. This allows a mobile device to decode the signal from more than one transmitter in the same way that it might if it was a delayed version from the same transmitter.

A venue cast system may broadcast venue cast content via an out of band transmission or an in band transmission. If the venue cast system broadcasts an in band signal the venue cast system may receive wide or local area content and information through various mechanisms. Among others the venue cast system may include satellite backhaul support as discussed below in or may receive an over the air wide or local area signal as discussed below in .

A venue cast system may transmit on a dedicated band separate from the wide area band and thus may be referred to as an out of band transmission. Control channels on each radio frequency RF channel may not convey information about other RF channels. Therefore service discovery may be accomplished independently for each RF channel. Independent service discovery may be accomplished at a receiving access terminal through scanning for a wide or local area signal power on a venue RF frequency. If the signal is present the access terminal attempts to decode Overhead Information Symbols OIS in the venue channel. The overhead information provides the information necessary to access the venue cast transmission. The transmission may include combined wide or local area broadcast information and venue broadcast information using an enhanced Multi Frequency Network MFN framework. Transmitters within the network may be non co located.

As the venue cast transmission is on a dedicated band the venue cast system may function without a backhaul. illustrates exemplary aspects of a venue cast transmitter for a venue cast system without a backhaul. This venue transmission system receives venue specific content via element . The venue content may be transcoded multiplexed and combined with system information SI . The transmission system may include an out of band signal generator for generating a transmission signal an exciter to enhance the signal and a transmission antenna . The transmission system may further include such elements as a power controller power weights a digital to analog converter a frequency converter Fc and a power amplifier PA . The system may include external inputs of reference material or GPS and a configuration interface .

It may be desirable that a venue cast transmission be made in combination with a wide area or local area transmission in such a manner that the wide area and local area transmissions are not interrupted. Thus aspects include combining a venue cast broadcast transmission with a wide or local area transmission or using knowledge of a wide area or local area transmission in order to avoid interfering with the wide or local area transmission.

In this manner the venue specific content in can be transmitted to a coverage area for the venue via transmitter in such a manner that it does not interfere with the reception of either the wide area or local area transmissions. Thus a mobile device in venue could receive the venue transmission without preventing it from receiving either the wide or local area content. For example the venue system may receive either the wide or local area transmissions such as via satellite or over the air and may insert the venue content and transmit a venue combined transmission. Among others a combined signal may be accomplished using time and frequency sharing superposition gray coding and multiple transmitting antennas.

A first exemplary implementation for an in band venue cast is a Time Frequency Multiplexing mechanism. Using Time Frequency Multiplexing a signal on a shared frequency band is portioned to allow a time slot for at least a local area transmission and a venue cast transmission. The frequency band may further include a portion reserved for a wide area transmission. illustrates a frequency band that includes a portion of time reserved for wide area content a second portion reserved for local area content and a portion reserved for venue cast content . Thus each of these signals shares a frequency band .

The transmitters corresponding to the wide local and venue coverage area may be coordinated to transmit only during their assigned time. It may be undesirable to turn certain transmitters on and off. Therefore the transmitters may enter an inactive state during portions of time assigned to other transmitters. In an inactive state a transmitter continues to transmit so that it does not need to be turned off. However the transmission is limited to a particular portion of the frequency band that is set aside for inactive type transmissions. This reserved portion of the frequency band may be a single slot. A slot is a group of sub carriers or frequency range. Thus during the inactive state the transmitters go into a single slot mode and transmit only on the reserved slot. For example the local area transmitters and in would enter an inactive state during time portion that is reserved for the venue cast. During time portion transmitters and are limited to the reserved inactive frequency band . The inactive frequency band is a small reserved portion of frequency band . In this manner the transmissions share not only the frequency band but also the assigned time portions.

The high power transmitters may be configured to reduce power during the venue portion of the frame or during the portion reserved for the venue transmission. This may further enhance venue transmission coverage.

After the frames the superframe includes a PPC that may be modified to include information about the availability of a venue broadcast. Thus the availability of a venue transmission may be signaled using the PPC . The PPC may be modified to include information regarding the type of venue transmission service and the energy ratio of the venue transmission. The venue transmission may be provided as a percentage of the slots set aside for the local area transmission. This will enable venue casts without the use of additional bandwidth. As discussed above in connection with wide and local area transmitters may remain on continuously and transmit scrambled pilots on a reserved inactive slot such as slot of the superframe during a venue portion of the frame.

This implementation may be employed in a venue without macro signal coverage. Without macro signal coverage the venue transmitter transmits the TDM pilot the WOIS and LOIS in addition to the venue portion of the frame.

The venue cast waveform is transmitted as an insertion to the wide or local area waveform. The modulation for the venue cast may be Quadrature Phase Shifting Key QPSK modulation. The waveform parameters of the venue cast waveform may be the same as for the wide or local area broadcast. For example the venue cast may share parameters such as Fast Fourier Transform FFT size cyclic prefix CP length slot to interlace map and frame length with the wide or local area transmission.

As discussed in connection with the frames may include multiple frequency slots . During the venue portion the venue cast transmitter may be allotted only slots . Slot may be the reserved inactive slot. Similarly during the PPC portion the PPC would not be transmitted using the reserved inactive frequency slot . In addition PPC may include multiple time slots . These time slots may be portioned to PPC information for each of the wide area local area and venue.

A venue transmitter inserts the venue content into any reserved venue portions and repeats the superframe having the superposed venue content . The venue portion that is reserved in the superframe may be reused at different venues.

Referring to a WOI may include more than one local area such as LOI1 and LOI2 having transmitters and respectively. Each local area may include any number of venues. As long as the venue coverage areas are non overlapping the venues may each use the same reserved venue portion in the superframe. For example venue V1 in may insert venue content into the reserved venue portion and broadcast the superframe to a coverage area for venue V1 via venue transmitter . Venue V2 may similarly insert venue content for V2 into the same reserved venue portion and broadcast the superframe to a coverage area for V2 via transmitter . As the coverage areas do no overlap the repeats at the different venues do not interfere with each other. The signal strength of the venue transmitter may be selected to cover only the venue area. Similarly the same reserved venue portion V may be reused at V3 and V4 and any other non overlapping venue coverage area via transmitters and respectively.

An AT receiving the combined signal will first receive the OIS signal and process it sequentially. Therefore first it will receive any WOIS or LOIS information. This overhead information will inform the AT regarding the existence of a venue MLC and provide the venue MLC parameters. Thus the OIS informs an AT regarding the existence of a venue cast and provides information on how to access the venue cast contents. The venue cast transmission will modify the OIS by inserting its own information.

In order to insert the venue cast content at the appropriate slots the venue cast system requires information regarding the local area signal and the portion of the signal reserved for the venue cast content. Coordination of the OIS PPC and frame portions assigned to a venue need to be coordinated with the macro network. For example the venue cast system will require knowledge of the PPC symbol on which it can transmit. Thus the venue cast network requires an IP interface. Coordination of the venue cast system with the macro network may occur by providing the venue cast system with a reception of the macro network signal. This may occur in a number of ways for example the venue cast network may receive an over the air reception of the wide or local area signal a satellite reception of the wide or local area signal or receive information regarding the wide or local area signal via an IP network. illustrates that the venue cast system for venue may receive information from the wide area network management center via satellite over the air information from LOI transmitter etc.

In addition to the transmission antenna this system includes a reception antenna for receiving the wide or local area signal. The venue transmission system also includes a receiver and synchronizer for synchronizing the venue signal with the received wide or local area signal an echo canceller including echo canceller control logic for eliminating or reducing echo an Fc and an analog to digital converter . Although the receiving antenna and transmission antenna are illustrated as being separate it is noted that any number of antennas may be used in the system.

If the wide and local area signals are received by the venue transmission system and repeated by the venue transmission system signal power level changes can be eliminated between wide and local area portions of the frame and venue portions of the frame. As knowledge of the wide local area signal is received via the backhaul the venue transmitters do not need be turned on and off.

The local area transmitter may transmit a pilot pattern on all slots in a venue portion of a superframe. A corresponding venue transmitter inside the local area may also transmit venue broadcast information on all slots in the venue portion. A receiver performs pilot interference cancellation in order to receive the venue cast information. On the venue portion of the superframe the received signal on each sub carrier can be written as 

where P k P k represent scrambled pilots from the macro network and venue transmitter respectively k represents the subcarrier index H k represents the channel gain on sub carrier k for the channel between the macro network and a receiving device. H k represents the channel gain on sub carrier k for the channel between the venue transmitter and a receiving device.

A device receiving a time frequency multiplexed signal may decode the signals as well as perform pilot interference cancellation. For example the venue signal may be decoded in two steps. First the wide or local area channel is estimated by exploiting a knowledge of the wide or local area pilot sequence followed by time filtering and thresholding of the estimated wide local area signal. Then the wide or local area signal is cancelled from the received signal Y k and the residual signal is decoded to obtain the venue cast information. The residual signal may be decoded in the same manner as a regular wide or local area signal.

A second exemplary implementation for in band venue cast transmission is superposition coding the venue cast signal onto the local area signal. If scheduling information is available superposition coding may be first done on empty slots. Superposition coding may be done only for Multicast Logical Channels MLCs of certain modes. The venue waveform power may be chosen to be a value low enough to not affect existing wide local signal coverage. Thus the venue specific broadcasts can be superposed on an existing network such as a wide or local area network such as the MediaFLO network with no additional bandwidth requirements.

Capacity is partitioned between the wide and local area system and the venue broadcast system so that each system can operate independently of the other the capacity allocation can be changed at each local area and devices capable of receiving wide or local area transmissions will continue to receive such transmissions without interruption at venues. illustrates coverage areas of the macro system WOI and the venue system V1 2 3 and 4. Although four venue broadcast towers and are illustrated in any number of non overlapping venue coverage areas may be provided within the macro coverage area. The same capacity may be re used for each of venues V1 V2 V3 and V4

Successive Interference Cancellation SIC may be used by an access terminal receiving the combined signal in order to decode the venue transmission the local area transmission and the wide area transmission from the superposed waveform.

A venue transmitter may include an exciter having a field programmable gate array FPGA to support a single slot transmission mode and the exciter may be enabled to support single slot power backoff. For example in one aspect the power backoff may be 12 dB. Power backoff can provide improvement to the venue coverage by reducing interference. The exciter may include a feature for turning the venue cast RF transmission on and off. A timing offset may be included in the exciter for setting the time at which the exciter turns the venue cast RF transmission on and off. The timing offset of the exciter may be chosen such that venue signals are in time alignment with the wide or local area signal that arrives earliest.

A wide or local area transmitter may also include a scheduler having a portion of the local data frame unallocated so that venue data can be broadcast in that portion of the frame. The scheduler may include additional support at higher layers to allow for a configurable split between wide and local portions and venue portions of the superframe.

The transmitter backhaul may include support for additional multiplexes to tradeoff macro network capacity with venues only in selected Local area Operational Infrastructures LOIs .

A local signal and the venue signal may also be generated from the same transmitter. In this single transmitter situation there may be no local signal components from other transmitters. Thus the received waveform Y can be written as 

where His the channel gain of the venue cast Xis the local area portion of the signal Xis the venue area portion of the signal a and b are selected power levels for the local area and venue area components of the signal and W is background noise.

The venue transmission involves generalized layered modulation that may include independent scheduling of the venue transmission and wide or local area data. Layered modulation may be used to transmit information for a video channel at both a lower quality also referred to as a base quality and at a higher quality also referred to as an enhancement. Receiving the base broadcast alone will give a base video quality level whereas receiving both the base broadcast and the enhancement broadcast will provide a better quality video broadcast.

In such aspects the same data rate is used on both the base and the enhancement signals and also the same allocations are made for the signals. For example if n packets of base information are being sent then n packets of enhancement information must be sent where n is a positive number.

For a venue transmission superposed with a wide or local area transmission the wide local area transmission can be similar to the base transmission and the venue transmission is similar to the enhancement transmission. However the wide local area transmission and the venue transmission may be scheduled independently of each other where an enhancement transmission is tied to the base transmission. This allows receivers to obtain the venue transmission even without decoding and cancelling the wide local area transmission.

The venue transmission may be received and decoded independently of whether the local wide area transmission is received and decoded whereas both a base and an enhancement transmission must be received in order for the enhanced transmission to be decoded.

In some aspects the spectral efficiency of a venue cast layer may not be tied to that of the wide or local layer. The venue cast signal may be scrambled in a similar manner to the wide or local pilot signal. A venue cast signal of this type may be indicated by the value 0x01 in the Positioning Pilot Channel PPC .

Additionally aspects may include determining a power for the venue cast waveform in relation to the wide or local area waveform. In the above equation powers a and b represent the power for the local area and venue waveform respectively. This may include determining the power of the venue transmission in order to allow a predetermined maximum degradation to the performance of the wide or local area transmission. For example a predetermined maximum degradation may be less than 1 dB.

A signal from more than one transmitter may cause interference. For example a first transmitter may be located in San Diego Calif. and a second transmitter may be located in Irvine Calif. A device located between the two transmitters would receive a signal with interference from the two signals. The signal on each sub carrier can be written as Local interference Venue cast 

where Xrepresents the signal from the first transmitter and Xrepresents a signal from a second transmitter. The two transmitters may cover separate yet overlapping coverage areas. In the second equation Xis the local area signal Xis the venue cast portion of the signal W represents background noise and H represents channel gain. Thus Hv is the channel gain for the venue cast signal His the channel gain for the local area signal His the channel gain for the signal from the first transmitter and His the channel gain for the signal from the second transmitter. Parameters a and b may be selected so that the venue cast signal does not affect the wide local area signal coverage. Receivers will first decode Xand then obtain X as Xwill have a higher signal strength than X. For local interference cancellation either Xor Xcan have a higher strength. The receiver may determine an order of interference cancellation dynamically.

In order to receive and decode a superposed signal an access terminal receiving the combined venue cast may include a service determination component as illustrated in . This component may perform venue coverage determination in order to enable the access terminal to determine whether it is in sufficient coverage by determining whether the overall C I N is sufficient for decoding the venue signal where C is the carrier signal energy I is the interface energy and N is the thermal noise energy due to receiver circuits. Coverage may also be determined to be sufficient if C I is greater than a predetermined threshold or if C N is greater than a predetermined threshold. The C N analysis may be identical to a wide or local area link budget calculation.

In some aspects a venue signal can be received if C I a certain threshold such as 5 dB. Thus the wide area or local area signal should be approximately 5 dB below the venue signal on average.

The access terminal may further include an interference cancellation component for decoding a superposed transmission of more than one signal. The signals may include at least a stronger signal and a weaker signal. The local signal may be the stronger signal and the venue signal the weaker signal. In performing interference cancellation first the mobile device determines the power levels for the signals. The mobile device then decodes the stronger signal. Then the receiver cancels the stronger signal in order to decode the weaker signal. Thereby a mobile device can decode a superposed venue signal. The device may use successive interference cancellation in order to decode the venue transmission.

The access terminal may further include a channel estimation component. As a venue cast pilot is scrambled identical to the corresponding venue cast data the venue cast pilot may appear as noise to the wide or local area pilot. Channel estimation of venue cast data may take advantage of interference cancellation as described above. First a mobile device receiving a superposed venue transmission may estimate the wide or local area channel. The device applies a threshold to the estimated time domain wide local area channel and converts the estimate to the frequency domain for interference cancellation. Then the device may estimate the venue cast channel by descrambling and performing an Inverse Fast Fourier Transform IFFT processing of the interference cancelled channel observations.

Another exemplary implementation for in band venue cast transmission is gray coding venue cast content onto a local area signal. While superposition coding of venue cast content onto a local area signal may be accomplished without an actual knowledge of the local broadcast content gray coding requires a backhaul to provide the venue cast network with at least a partial knowledge of the local signal. In order to perform gray coding the venue cast system will decode the local area signal and perform joint encoding for a combined signal including the venue cast content. A venue transmission system having backhaul support may also implement gray coding with the superposition of the venue content onto the superframe from the wide or local area broadcast.

An access terminal that receives the gray coded venue cast may perform venue coverage determination and may include an interference cancellation component and a channel estimation component similar to an access terminal for receiving a superposed signal. However when graycoding is used in superposing the venue waveform on the wide or local area waveform the device may be able to decode the venue portion of the waveform and the wide or local area portion of the waveform independently of each other. Therefore where an access terminal receiving a venue cast signal superposed on a local area signal will separate the venue cast signal and the local area signal decode the local area or a stronger signal first and then decode the venue cast or weaker signal after decoding the local area signal an access terminal receiving a venue cast signal gray coded on a local area signal may decode the venue cast signal without decoding the local area signal.

Additional antennas may be used at either the transmitters or the mobile device receiver or both in order to provide additional diversity for a combined signal. Additional transmitters in this Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO type system may provide increased dimensionality. illustrates aspects of an exemplary dual antenna venue transmission system . The additional transmitters provide a signal that can be received by access terminals having either one antenna or multiple antennas.

A. For a single antenna receiver the additional transmitting antennas provide additional diversity to assist in receiving the venue cast. In this situation interference from a venue signal should be correlated with the corresponding wide or local area signal such that when the signal fades the interference also fades. B. For a multiple antenna receiver the receiver may use the multiple antennas to cancel portions of the combined signal spatially. For example the receiver may cancel the wide or local area portion of the signal spatially. An access terminal including multiple receiving antennas may be a Minimum Mean Squared Error MMSE linear receiver for example. An access terminal with multiple receiving antennas may also be a MMSE receiver with Successive Interference Cancellation SIC . An MMSE type receiver having SIC may provide better capacity by first decoding a wide or local area signal and then performing interference cancellation before decoding the venue signal. C. Delay diversity at a transmitter may provide diversity improvement to the wide or local area signal. With multiple transmitting antennas venue interference may be frequency selective with respect to the wide or local area signal. The system should be designed such that the interference power fades with the wide or local area signal power on average.

Multiple antenna receivers may perform the following steps 1 estimate both wide local area and venue channels for each antenna 2 decode wide local area and venue signals by using either a MMSE or a MMSE SIC receiver.

Single antenna receivers will operate in a normal manner. The received signal for a single antenna receiver is given by 

The power of the venue interferer is determined by the parameter b. The total power of the venue signal across all sub carriers is at a fixed level below the power of the wide local signal from the MIMO transmitter.

Therefore a single antenna receiver can operate as if there were no venue cast signal present. Thus a single antenna receiver will not take additional steps in order to receive the wide or local area signal.

A combined signal may be sent from a transmitter having multiple antennas such as two transmitting antennas. The combined signal may be sent in a number of ways. First the first transmitter may transmit a local area transmission and the second transmitter may transmit a venue transmission superposed on the local area transmission. Second the two antenna transmitters may function as a repeater for the local area signal while simultaneously inserting the venue content. In this situation both antennas would transmit a combined signal.

The signals from the two antenna transmitters may be received by a mobile device having either one antenna receiver or two antenna receivers. Two antennas are illustrated in .

An access terminal having one antenna receiver is able to decode the transmission in order to receive the local area transmission whereas a two antenna receiver may be configured to receive and decode both the local area transmission and the venue transmission.

Multiple antenna receivers decode the signals by first estimating both the local area and venue channels for each antenna. Then the receiver decodes the local area signal by treating the venue signal as interference. Then in order to decode the venue signal the receiver treats the local signal as interference and cancels the local area signal spatially. Subsequently the receiver alternately successively performs interference cancellation.

By transmitting the mix of signals on multiple antennas using a predetermined power ratio a and b between the local area and venue signals a receiver with multiple antennas can decode the two signals. In addition delaying either the local area or venue signal by a predetermined amount assists the receiver in distinguishing the two channels.

This venue transmission system functions similar to a repeater while at the same time inserting venue specific content into the transmission.

A venue transmission system may be configured so as to transmit a signal that can be received by a single antenna receiver a multiple antenna receiver or both. Interference cancellation can be used to first decode a stronger signal and then to cancel the stronger signal and decode a weaker signal in order to decode one of the combined signals.

As noted above a venue transmission system may use a single antenna repeater type system. For a single antenna repeater system additional processing may be provided at the venue transmission system including channel estimation and superposition. In order to perform channel estimation the venue transmission system will estimate a channel from the wide local area transmitter to the repeater. Repeating transmitters send signals corresponding to the macro network or the wide local area network. The repeater combines the venue signal with the macro signal from the macro network transmitters and re transmits the signal. Thus the venue transmission system may be considered the repeater because it re transmits the wide local area signal combined with the venue content.

The system may then use the estimated channel to scale venue data to be superposed on the wide local area transmission. For example if the wide local area signal received at the venue transmission system is 

where H k represents the channel from the transmitter to the repeater and His the venue transmission system s estimate of the channel received from the wide local area transmitter at the venue transmission system. Thus it is an estimated channel from the transmitter to the repeater. It is a value determined at the repeater or the venue transmission system.

A transmission system may broadcast multiple broadcast streams with information targeted to specific areas or venues. Although an exemplary aspect using a broadcast stream is described multicasting and unicasting may be used in the alternative or in addition to broadcasting. A mobile device may include a feature for automatically tuning to receive one of the multiple broadcasts based on the location of the mobile device relative to one or more of the respective specific areas or venues.

A broadcast system may include one or more transmit stations. The transmit stations may provide coverage to a large area such as a city and or to a smaller coverage area such as a venue within a city. The broadcast system may broadcast a transmission including an existing or an additional overhead channel.

Currently location based filtering of transmissions is based on a local area identifier LOI which relates to a collection of one or more transmitters. In other words in this scenario the smallest level of granularity available is a one transmitter site which has a relatively large cell size e.g. 5 15 KMs typical of broadcast transmitters. In contrast the geographic region of a venue or a targeted area may be much smaller than the associated local area of a typical broadcast transmitter. As such in order to perform venue level filtering smaller cells would need to be created by creating new smaller areas by installing new transmitters. Such a solution would be a costly undertaking.

Alternatively the described aspects provide targeted programming to a specific location or venue or micro area within a macro cell or Local Area by applying dynamic location based filtering criteria. illustrates an exemplary venue targeted system .

In one or more geographic areas such as regions and are defined and one or more content services such as services and may be designated for each of the one or more regions in order to provide targeted programming. Each defined geographic area may be actively managed by an operator so that the area can be defined and re defined as desired. For example the geographic area may be defined based on a range or defined set of latitudes and longitudes based on a range from a given geographic point such as a radius from the location of the transmitter etc. It should be understood however that other definitions of a defined geographic area may be utilized.

For example first region may be targeted for information relating to service content where first region represents an entirety of an LOI. For example service content may be referred to as local area content that applies to LOI. Second region may be targeted for information of service content where second region represents a second area within the LOI. In this case service content may be referred to as targeted content or venue specific content for a venue corresponding to second region . Third region may be targeted for information of service content where third region represents a third area within LOI where the third area is different from the second area. As such service content may also be referred to as targeted content or venue specific content but for a venue corresponding to third region .

Information regarding the defined geographic region for which a given service content is intended may be an additional transmission element transmitted with the content. For example the defined geographic region information may be transmitted as a defined geographic region identifier or specific defined geographic region coordinates. Further for example the defined geographic region information may be transmitted as overhead data. For instance in an example for the MediaFLO system the defined geographic region may be transmitted as service ID FLOW ID mapping on overhead data. In the above example defined geographic region information and respectively correspond to content services and .

One or more content providers supplies one or more pieces of content which may form all or some portion of one or more content services such as content services and . A radio access network RAN and or a media distribution system MDS may receive the content and generate service programming e.g. content services and . Subsequently RAN and or MDS provides a transmission system TS such as a MediaFLO Transmission System MFTS access to one or more of the content services and . Accordingly TS generates a transmission such as a broadcast transmission for reception within a TS cell or service area such LOI .

A mobile device such as devices and receiving transmission may include a position locator component configured to identify a current position of the device. For example position locator component may include but is not limited to a position module having hardware software and or executable instructions configured to receive and triangulate signals such as from satellites or terrestrial stations and to compute current position or to communicate with a position determination entity on a network to obtain the current position . For instance position locator component may include a global positioning system GPS component to determine current location . In some aspects the current location may be defined as a current latitude and longitude although other location descriptors such as geographic names or network based identifiers or names may also be utilized.

Additionally each device and may further include a service determiner component configured to receive current location and utilize this information to filter the received transmission based on the location of the device or relative to one or more defined geographic areas and corresponding to one or more content services and carried by the transmission. For example service determiner component may include but is not limited to hardware software and or executable instructions configured to determine whether or not a given current location is within a given range of one or more defined geographic areas and . For instance the given range may be a distance which can include a value of zero to thereby require the device to be within the given defined geographic area. In any case service determination component of allows the device to receive and decode the corresponding portion of the transmission if the current location is within the given range or allows the device to bypass receiving and decoding of the corresponding portion of the transmission if the current location is outside of the given range.

For example in mobile device has a determined location X Y within area X to Y corresponding to second region and mobile device has a determined location A B within area A to B corresponding to third region and both devices and are also located within the LOI . Accordingly service determiner component for each device and compares the respective current location of the respective device to one or more the defined geographic regions corresponding to the one or more content services. Thus in this case mobile device receives and decodes content services and otherwise referred to as the local area content and the targeted content for the second region while mobile device receives and decodes content services and otherwise referred to as the local area content and the targeted content for the third region.

Therefore each device and filters the transmission based on its current location and the one or more defined geographic region information and associated with the one or more content services and within the transmission .

Additionally in another aspect the content service may provide service information targeted to mobile device users within a particular broadcast area. For example the content service may broadcast traffic information. illustrates aspects of an exemplary broadcast system . A TS may generate a transmission having a first content service or broadcast stream providing traffic information relating to a first targeted area a second content service or broadcast stream providing traffic information relating to a second target area a third content service or broadcast stream providing traffic information relating to a third target area and a fourth content service or broadcast stream providing traffic information relating to a fourth target area . Although four broadcast streams and target areas are shown any number of broadcast streams and or target areas can be used. Similarly although illustrated as rectangles the target area may be defined as having any shape. Mobile device based on a determination of its location being within first target area automatically tunes or filters the received transmission to receive the traffic information for first target area whereas mobile devices and automatically tune to receive the traffic information for respective target areas and based on similar functionality. Further each mobile device may automatically adjust it filtering capabilities based on updated current location information. For example if mobile device travels into second target area it would automatically tune to receive the second stream of traffic information for second target area and filter out or otherwise disregard first stream which device had previously been receiving.

In addition to service information the content service may provide advertising information for any number of vendors or attractions within a target area. For example the content service or broadcast stream for target area may include advertisements or information regarding shopping offers for stores businesses restaurants performances and other attractions within first target area . The advertisements may also include offers sale information or coupons for any of these businesses and attractions.

Additionally each respective content service or broadcast stream may provide service information such as flight information at an airport or travel information at a train or bus station associated with the respective target area.

In other aspects each respective content service or broadcast stream may also provide information about events at theme parks fairs race tracks shopping malls casinos trade shows conventions campuses retail superstores and other multiple attraction type areas.

Thus system provides one or more content services or broadcast streams e.g. streams and for one or more corresponding areas e.g. and wherein such streams include information regarding pertinent information corresponding to the respective area such as information relating to businesses or attractions within the respective areas. Mobile devices and located in or near these areas are configured to automatically tune to the respective broadcast stream corresponding to their physical location e.g. by applying a filter to transmission . Accordingly system allows focused information and advertising to be targeted to end users in the vicinity of an attraction.

In one aspect venue cast can be realized with one or more different network architecture designs. For example depicted in as an overlapping BTS venue AP arrangement provides venue cast delivery in respective coverage areas for mobile devices or access terminals AT directly from one or more macro EV DO base transceiver systems BTS near venue such as a large theme park or sports complex venue . A second design provides plug and play venue cast delivery using on site BCMCS equipment which can be particularly desirable for live content streaming discussed below . The mobile content channels that include venue cast content can originate in the venue depicted as video captured by a video camera that are stored and relayed by a BCMCS server to a BSC PDSN BSN e.g. base station controller packet data serving node broadband service node and on to the BTS s .

It should be appreciated that higher layer design features are included to provide an end to end system specification. A Service Guide SG design can be based upon a broadcast service guide format such as the MediaFLO Media Presentation Guide MPG standard for example adapted to an EV DO air interface. Real time streaming experience optimization can be performed at the receiver mobile device . Non real time content delivery can be based upon file delivery protocol file delivery control protocol FDP FDCP adapted to IP. Security can enable subscription based on existing BCMCS key architecture and secure content delivery via Open Mobile Alliance OMA Digital Rights Management DRM format.

Referring to in one aspect a file delivery over venue cast protocol stack and encapsulation protocol structure is depicted. The Internet portion of venue cast Service Guide SG uses a protocol stack from a content provider as L1 layer L2 layer IP layer TCP layer FTP HTTP layer and File Object layer . A BCMCS network portion originating from a router BSN RAN and broadcast by BCMCS terminal has a protocol stack of an L1 layer L2 layer IP layer UDP layer ALC FDP layer and file object layer . In order to merge at a highest layer the file object layer a BCMCS content server has to process the dissimilar underlying five layers as depicted at .

Referring to in an aspect a data structure is depicted for file delivery over venue cast FDP FDCP procedure. A file object to be transferred undergoes a file error correction FEC block building to form source block 1 source block 2 to source block n . Each block becomes a plurality of encoded symbols . FDP FDCP processing prepares each encoded symbol by adding an FDM header along with an FDCM block which is sent to a FLO transport layer for transmission.

Referring to in an aspect a data structure stack depicts one option wherein FDCP and FDP are sent on a separate IP UDP port. This is depicted as being supported by the stack comprising an FDM FDCM payload layer an FDM FDCM flag a UDP header and an IP header . FDP FDCP traffic can be differentiated based on UDP port number. The FDM FDCM format can be encapsulated into the individual UDP payload directly with no merge modification. Similar treatment is given for FDM and FDCM as in existing MediaFLO system.

Referring to in an aspect another data structure stack depicts another option wherein FDCP and FDP share the same IP UDP port. To that end the stack comprises an FDM payload layer an FDCM payload layer if exists a next layer has an FDCM flag and FDCM length block . The stack further comprises UDP header layer then an IP header layer . Additional header thus could be employed to differentiate FDP FDCP traffic. The FDM FDCM format can be encapsulated into UDP payload after the new header.

In in another aspect a venue cast system leverages use of a static BCMCS system depicted as a BCMCS content server of an EV DO WAN that receives venue cast content from a provider at venue . The BCMCS content server provides venue cast signaling and content to a broadband service node BSN which in turn provides the venue cast signaling and content to an EV DO AP BTS BSC PCF that wirelessly transmits the venue cast content as packetized data to an AT e.g. a multi mode DO MediaFLO device and sends venue cast signaling to a PDSN for coordinating with a serving authentication authorization and accounting S AAA component . An MediaFLO system of a MediaFLO network which may include one or more of a MediaFLO Management System MFMS a MediaFLO Provisioning System MPS a media distribution system MDS and a FLO radio access network FLO RAN provides broadcast FLO content to the AT . In some implementations a BCMCS controller handles authentication and other functions and has interfaces with the S AAA AT BCMCS content server and venue cast content provider .

Characteristics of a static BCMCS system include programs that are broadcasted at pre determined time and data rate. Network resources e.g. air link bandwidth IP address bearer path etc. are statically allocated to the BCMCS transmission independent of user presence. In some aspects the existing BCMCS security key exchange mechanism is not used. In some aspects as service provider receives revenue from venue cast package subscriptions and or from an advertiser sponsor of various content. This architecture can advantageously provide low implementation cost and rapid deployment due to reuse of existing network elements. In some aspects all BCMCS network entities except the content provider may reside in the operator network. Also a venue content originator provides service content and a service guide to the BCMCS content server. Further aspects provide for placement of network entities to ensure full operator control and minimize equipment cost for venue cast owner.

Static venue cast service allows significant simplification to network architecture such as static mapping between multi cast IP address port number and BCMCS flow. Static content bearer path setup can be made from content server to BSN to access network s AN s serving the venue area. A venue cast service guide SG can be advertised in a BCMCS information flow which is detectable by the AT via a BCMCS Overhead Message BOM in a synchronous control channel SCC . Thus in this aspect no need exists for BCMCS controller and the associated interfaces.

With regard to providing venue cast service over EV DO WAN network aspects support the reservation of a multicast IP address and port number. For example aspects allow a reservation of N bits multicast IP address and M bits of port ID on operator network for venue cast service where N and M are positive numbers e.g. N 9 and M 3 for a MediaFLO system over BCMCS . In some aspects for example the IP address may be selected from an organization local scope address assigned by IANA e.g. 239.192.0.0 239.251.255.255 for IPv4 and from FF18 0 FF18 FFFF FFFF for IPv6. In some aspects for example the port number may be selected from private ports 49152 65535. Additionally for example a unique pair of multi cast IP address and port ID may be assigned to every venue cast content channel also referred to as an information flow provided to the operator. Additionally in some aspects a multicast content delivery bearer path set up is supported. Further in some aspects a bearer path may be pre established for content delivery from a content server to BSN to RAN. In some aspects BSN provides sector ID information in A11 BC service initiate request to route the multicast packets to the appropriate sector s . With regard to air link resource reservation some aspects provide for pre allocation of air link resources to broadcast all BCMCS flows from RAN. In some aspects one of the flows is for periodic SG transmission. At a given venue area the flow IDs for all available venue cast content channels as well as the SG channel is contained in the BCMCS Overhead Message BOM .

As for access terminal AT provisions for static venue cast service over EV DO WAN the multicast IP address and port number for the SG channel is provided to the AT. The SG IP address and port number can be hard coded in the mobile device or downloaded via a venue cast application. The AT may periodically perform service discovery and SG updates. Also the AT can find and update the SG channel at a venue periodically and or upon a location change. A SG channel search update can be triggered by a venue cast application on the AT via a timer expiration and or via a location change. Further the AT may find the SG channel availability by decoding information in the BOM.

Various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal herein referred to interchangeably as a mobile device. A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal or mobile device may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. As used herein a mobile device may be a dedicated purpose built mobile device such as a handset or may be a multi purpose mobile device that can be used beyond a particular venue. A dedicated device or a multi purpose mobile device may include core hardware to receive transmitted data such as data broadcast unicast over an air interface.

In order to receive a venue cast transmission an access terminal may include components such as computer code stored in a computer readable medium that enables the access terminal to detect the presence of a venue or of a venue cast transmission and to obtain the venue cast overhead information. Such computer code may also enhance the PHY performance for venue cast reception.

Referring to in one representative aspect wireless communications device herein referred to interchangeably as a mobile device includes a mobile communication device operable on a wireless communication system. As can be appreciated there are a variety of wireless communication systems which often employ different spectrum bandwidths and or different air interface technologies. Exemplary systems include CDMA CDMA 2000 EV DO WCDMA OFDM or OFDMA Flash OFDM 802.20 WiMAX FDMA TDMA GSM systems using FDD or TDD licensed spectrums peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums and 802.xx wireless LAN or BLUETOOTH techniques.

Wireless communications device includes processor component for carrying out processing functions associated with one or more of components and functions described herein. Processor component can include a single or multiple set of processors or multi core processors. Moreover processing component can be implemented as an integrated processing system and or a distributed processing system.

Wireless communications device further includes a memory such as for storing local versions of applications being executed by processor component . Memory can include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and a combination thereof.

Further wireless communications device includes a communications component that provides for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on wireless communications device as well as between wireless communications device and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to wireless communications device .

Additionally wireless communications device may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently executing.

Wireless communications device may additionally include a user interface component operable to receive inputs from a user of wireless communications device and to generate outputs for presentation to the user. User interface component may include one or more input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a number pad a mouse a touch sensitive display a navigation key a function key a microphone a voice recognition component any other mechanism capable of receiving an input from a user or any combination thereof. Further user interface component may include one or more output devices including but not limited to a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a printer any other mechanism capable of presenting an output to a user or any combination thereof.

Additionally wireless communications device may further include one or more service components for performing the actions described herein. For example device may include service components that provide smooth receipt of venue content. Among other components these service components may include service detection service determination venue application downloading venue application deletion user interface features venue coverage determination and interference cancellation.

Wireless communications device may further include a location determination component . The location determination component may include various features to determine the location of a mobile device. For example the location determination feature may include a satellite based and or terrestrial based position determination component which may operate to determine the device position or location based on local calculations and or based on communications with a network based position determination entity. The location determination component may for example provide a location of the mobile device in terms of latitude and longitude optionally altitude and or in terms of network identifiers such as an access point identifier. Further in some aspects for example a location in a venue may be determined based on the strength of a signal received by the device within the location.

Wireless communications device may further include a service detection component . The service detection component may include a discovery mechanism that enables the device to automatically detect in some aspects without active intervention by a mobile device user the presence of a venue specific transmission on a particular air interface. Such detection may occur as the mobile device user enters a boundary of the area covered by a venue transmission. The boundary may be delimited by a coverage area of a venue transmitter. In some aspects boundary data may be included in a venue transmission which may trigger the mobile device to only decode the venue transmission if the device is within the defined boundary.

A venue transmission signal may include PHY and MAC layers. A mobile device for receiving a venue transmission may include an enhanced PHY layer receiving component that includes a feature for programmable Fast Fourier Transform FFT scale factors. This ensures that the signal transmission of the venue portion of the frame is well within a multipath field of reception and enables a device to receive the transmission without operating in two different modes. It may also include a programmable time filter coefficient for the venue portion of the frame. This parameter adjusts to assist with efficient receipt of the signal.

A mobile device may also include an enhanced MAC layer receiving component. As part of a superframe transmission Overhead Information Symbols OIS and control channel information may be transmitted together as a single overhead Multicast Logical Channel MLC with a known mode and start location. The OIS information may be included in a first frame and control channel information may be included in subsequent frames of the superframe. The start of the venue service portion of the superframe may be determined from information in a wide and local OIS. The mobile device may attempt to decode a venue overhead MLC. If the decoding is successful this indicates the availability of venue service.

Additional latency may be added in order to allow venue MLC parameters to be programmed to hardware after an OIS reception.

Wireless communications device may further include a service determination component . A service determination component may include a determination mechanism that allows the mobile device to determine the services being offered at a particular venue after a device detects the presence of a venue transmission. Service determination may also include any associated applications and or widgets that are required in order to present such services to the mobile device user.

Wireless communications device may further include a venue application downloading component . Once the mobile device determines that a particular venue application is available a venue application downloading component enables the mobile device to download the application to the mobile device wirelessly. Such downloading may be based on a determination that the application is not already present on the mobile device and or based on user preferences. For example such user preferences may be set to automatically download venue applications upon the detection of a particular venue application that is not present on the mobile device. In contrast a user preference may require a user selection to allow the application to be downloaded to the mobile device.

The mobile device may include a feature that begins to record and store a venue channel to which it is tuned. This channel may include data audio and or video information. The mobile device may automatically store information that is broadcast or may record only portions selected by a user.

Upon detection of a venue specific application the device may acquire a directory flow or an Initial Acquisition Flow IAF . Then using the IAF the device may determine the flow carrying Application Directory information. This directory information may include available applications and services or related metadata such as a URL for an application or user interface itself. Based on the metadata the device determines the applications and user interfaces of interest to the device user. The device downloads the application or user interface of interest over the venue transmission channel and presents it to the user. The transmission may include a broadcast or unicast. Any number of applications or user interfaces may be provided at a venue and downloaded.

Wireless communications device may further include a venue application deletion component . The venue application deletion component allows the selective deletion of previously downloaded applications. The feature may provide for the automatic deletion of a previously downloaded venue application once the device moves out of the venue coverage area. The deletion may occur once the location determination feature determines that the mobile device is outside of the venue. The feature may also prompt the user to enter a selection that will delete the application the prompt being provided when the mobile device determines that the mobile device is outside of the boundary of the venue. The automatic deletion and the prompt may also include a timer feature that requires the mobile device to be outside the boundary of the venue for a predetermined amount of time before the deletion or prompt occurs. The predetermined time may be a matter of seconds minutes hours or days. The predetermined time may differ based on the type of venue and the frequency with which most visitors revisit the venue. The predetermined amount of time may be preset or may be set by the mobile device user. For example a user may choose a predetermined time that is longer for a venue that the user revisits often.

Wireless device may also include a Service Guide Component that processes service guide information received by the wireless device . The Service Guide Component may generate a combined service guide including information regarding a local area broadcast and a venue cast by integrating venue cast service guide content into a standard service guide format. This component may also format the service guide information for display at the access terminal.

The mobile device may display user interfaces that are configured to integrate real time and non real time venue content. Dedicated devices may contain user interfaces and may store non real time content and receive real time content over the venue broadcast network and then combine the real time data with the stored non real time data in presenting a user interface. Multiple use devices may receive over the air downloads of user interfaces and applications as necessary at a venue.

In in another aspect in a mobile communication system a dual mode mobile device can receive a venue cast data by an air link from a venue cast network and wide area content in a broadcast coverage area from a wide area broadcast network . The venue cast network may include multiple IP multicasting live venue cameras as well as static media stored on a multicasting server e.g. Apple Darwin multicasting server for MPEG4 H264 and audio content . This venue content is routed by a broadband service node BSN that also serves as a multicast base station controller BSC for a venue base transceiver system BTS which also may be in communication with a PDSN BSC router . The wide area broadcast network has media programs stored in a repository accessed by a wide area media playback server and disseminated by a broadcast exciter e.g. Rhode Schwartz Broadcast Tester for generating FLO signals . Aspects of the mobile device will be discussed in more detail below.

Mobile device may include a computing platform for supporting these dual communication channels integration of media usage etc. Further mobile device may include a hardware platform having a mobile software management MSM chipset that serves as processor and controller. A Mobile Display Projector MDP or Liquid Crystal Diode LCD display supports presentation of mobile content. A Multi Level Cell MLC based Solid State Drive provides storage for programs and data for the computing platform .

With regard to software components of the computing platform a mobile media user interface enables a user to interact with a combined service guide SG on the MDP LCD display . This SG is merged by application level processing from data received from different sources and protocols. In particular a file delivery protocol and or file delivery control protocol FDP FDCP component adapted for IP serves as a transport mechanism for one portion of a service guide . A media distribution system client MDSC component routes content. These applications are supported by a BREW operating environment QUALCOMM San Diego Calif. including an ISockets INetMgr component an IDisplay component an IMedia component and an IFLO component .

The BREW environment is supported by an Advanced Mobile Subscriber Software AMSS component including a data stack with sockets and PSIface including a QTV component that serves as a CODEC for preparing the media for presentation and advantageously includes a delay reduction component that dynamically adjusts buffering to mitigate display disruptions. The AMSS component has a FLO stack and FLOBC Manager for supporting the receipt of FLO content.

In an exemplary implementation integrated viewing experience for venue cast over BCMCS and FLO TV over MediaFLO system playback solution is provided. The computing platform supports fast switching e.g. 2 3 seconds or less between venue cast and FLO channels providing a seamless user experience. In some aspects the optimized UI design offers compelling venue user experience by providing the user with an option to select from multiple venue and TV networks by providing a dynamic combination of SG displays depending on user choice of networks and by providing active prompts to alert the user of venue cast availability upon entering a venue. Additionally in some aspects service terminates smoothly upon departing from venue. In one aspect the computing platform can comprise a MediaFLO CALLISTO FFA form factor accurate handset based on MFLO SW version 3.5 and EV DO MSM 6801 commercial build EV DO CSM 6800 SW Rel. 1.4.

Referring to in one non limiting example a dual mode mobile device can simultaneously or seamlessly alternate between receiving a wide area broadcast channels from a broadcast tower along with a wide area service guide as well as receiving a venue cast service guide from a venue cast access point AP . For example device may include a switching component that enables fast switching between the two services from the two different technologies thereby providing a seamless user experience. In another aspect the venue cast AP depicted as being co located with a low power broadcast antenna can further provide a venue cast channel via a unicast multicast or broadcast using unlicensed spectrum. Efficient delivery the venue cast content to wide area broadcast e.g. MediaFLO system customers can thus benefit from the large geographic footprint of the broadcast tower used for forward link only which is significantly larger than that of a cellular site. If a venue is significantly smaller than this footprint or if multiple venues reside within the footprint of one tower then the broadcast tower may deploy FLO forward link only stations as represented by antenna of smaller coverage areas such as having areas in the size covered by a pico or femto cell.

The mobile device may include an integrated program guide that is built from a received venue program guide and a received wide area broadcast program guide . The shared application fast switch component maintains signal waveform characteristics of the venue cast channel whether from the AP as well as for the wide area broadcast channels in order to enable rapid switching. Thus a venue cast can be viewed as depicted at on a mobile video user interface MVUI interchangeably with a selected wide area channel depicted at on the MVUI .

A venue cast service discovery component may discover the presence of venue cast network so that the further discovery of the service content of the venue cast network can be facilitated by the integrated program guide . In one aspect a radio access network RAN detection component can leverage unique characteristics of an underlying air interface that delivers the venue cast. For example if the air interface is EV DO BCMCS the service can be discovered by looking for the BCMCS flow ID of the venue cast service guide sent in broadcast overhead message BOM on the DO control channel. In another aspect a location based mechanism is utilized to aid in discovering venue specific services. For example the venue cast availability by location e.g. longitude latitude coordinates or cellular BTS ID can be preprogrammed in the mobile device . Upon entering the designated location the mobile device looks for the service guide and notifies the user if the service guide is found. In yet another aspect a user triggered mechanism can perform service discovery. Further in some aspects these discovery techniques can be autonomously triggered. Alternatively or in addition if the user is aware of the service due to outside information the user could activate the user triggered mechanism to start the application which then triggers the terminal to search for venue cast service guide.

In another aspect referring to a mobile communication device provides a seamless user experience between the wide area and venue cast content while advantageously annotating the types of content. In particular a user interface UI displays a scrollable searchable portion of a service guide . A selected highlighted offering is presented in detail in an upper portion with each listed program provided with an enunciator icon that identifies the channel type e.g. local venue or wide area as well as indications as to a media type. The UI can be a touch screen or can be accessed by controls depicted as left button center button right button cursor arrows select button and dial tone multi function DTMF keypad .

The UI provides access to a Description window that includes a TV Services Selection option . Upon selection the UI presents a TV Services Selection window that allows a user to select whether to enable a wide area broadcast service MediaFLO by selecting a radio button and or to enable a venue cast service option BCMCS by selecting a radio button . In some aspects the availability of any option may be indicated such as an available option being solidly depicted whereas an unavailable option may be depicted in phantom lines.

Device may further include components for decoding a combined superframe signal. A portion of the superframe signal may be used for a wide area signal a portion for a local area signal and a portion for a venue signal. The signals may also be received as more than one signal and decoded by the mobile device.

Wireless communications device further includes a memory and or data store such as for storing local versions of applications being executed by processor component . Memory can include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and a combination thereof.

Wireless communications device further includes a user interface component similar to that described in connection with and an output mechanism for outputting audio or video content.

Wireless communications device includes two antennas and . A first antenna may be configured to receiving broadcast communication and a second antenna may be configured to receive a different type of transmission such as cellular transmissions unicast transmissions or venue cast transmissions. Alternatively the first antenna may be configured to receive transmissions from a macro network and a second antenna may be configured to receive transmissions from a venue cast system.

The wireless communications device may further include components similar to those described for wireless communications device in such as a communications component a data store a location determination component a service detection component a service determination component an application downloading component and an application deletion component.

Wireless communications device may further include a component for processing content received on the first antenna a component for processing content received on the second antenna and or a component for combining content received from each of the antennas and .

In order to receive venue cast content an access terminal must receive information regarding the venue cast. Venue cast content can be received based on mechanisms suitable for the underlying air interface. For example for EV DO BCMCS venue cast for MediaFLO service users the real time content can be received via Real time Transport Protocol RTP transported by a DO BCMCS air interface whereas the non real time traffic clip cast etc. can be received by a standard protocol such as FLUTE or via adaptation of MediaFLO file delivery protocol FDP to the IP domain. Access terminals AT or mobile devices for receiving the venue cast may be provisioned with an application to discover venue cast service and to receive the venue cast.

An access terminal configured to receive a venue cast may include a venue cast service discovery component that discovers the presence of venue cast network. Service discovery may further include discovery of a venue cast Service Guide SG or an SG with information regarding the venue cast.

In one aspect a radio access network RAN detection component can leverage unique characteristics of an underlying air interface that delivers the venue cast. For example if the air interface is EV DO BCMCS the service can be discovered by looking for the BCMCS flow ID of the venue cast service guide sent in broadcast overhead message BOM on the DO control channel.

In another aspect a macro network may transmit venue identifier information regarding the venue transmission such as a venue identifier and a channel on which the venue cast is being transmitted. The venue identifier may be used by the AT to monitor venue specific channel information.

In another aspect a location based mechanism is utilized to aid in discovering venue specific services. For example the venue cast availability by location e.g. longitude latitude coordinates or cellular BTS ID can be preprogrammed in the mobile device. Upon entering the designated location the mobile device looks for the service guide and notifies the user if the service guide is found.

In yet another aspect a user triggered mechanism can perform service discovery. Further in some aspects these discovery techniques can be autonomously triggered. Alternatively or in addition if the user is aware of the service due to outside information the user could activate the user triggered mechanism to start the application which then triggers the terminal to search for venue cast service guide.

The service information may include a dedicated control channel message with an identifier for the venue cast. For example if the venue cast is a multicast transmission the identifier may be a multicast group ID such as a Multicast Access Terminal Identifier MATI.

This signal from the macrocell BS includes information regarding the frequency of the venue cast transmission and the type of service for the venue cast transmission. For example the transmission from the macrocell BS may include a frequency for the venue cast transmission and information on obtaining a program guide service guide for the venue cast transmission. The program guide may be provided via the venue cast system or via a website. If the program guide is provided via the venue cast system the transmission from the macrocell BS instructs the AT on obtaining the program guide from the venue cast system. If the program guide is accessed via a website the AT may access the website via the macrocell BS.

If the AT is not already it may be provisioned with an application for the venue network through the transmission from the macro BS.

As noted above the transmission from the venue cast system may be made via broadcast multicast or unicast. If the venue cast system transmits via broadcast or unicast the venue cast system only needs to provide a forward link channel for transmitting to an AT. If the system uses unicast the venue cast system must also include a reverse link channel for receiving communication from the AT.

The AT may be provisioned to look for the macrocell signal providing the information for the venue cast system. The AT may be provisioned to look for such a signal based on information received from the macrocell or based on a location change into a new network. For example a database may store the locations of a number of venue cast systems. When an AT enters an area covered by a venue cast system the AT may look for control channel information.

Referring back illustrates a 3G macro network providing information regarding service discovery for a venue cast system. As described above the macro network may transmit venue identifier information regarding the venue transmission such as a venue identifier and a channel on which the venue cast is being transmitted. An AT may receive the venue identifier during its wake up cycle. The venue identifier may be used by the AT to monitor venue specific channel information. The macro network may also provide information for accessing a service guide for the venue cast. As discussed above an AT may access the service guide via the macro network via a website etc. The venue cast transmitter may be a localized access point having a smaller scale such as a picocell or femtocell. The venue cast system also includes a content server which may be local centralized or a hybrid configuration using both a local and a centralized server.

Referring to in one aspect a state diagram represents states for a mobile device participating in venue casting. Idle state represents a state in which the mobile device is idle. A first MetaData Update Power Saving Mode State represents a state in which the mobile device performs a search for SG metadata for example until metadata is decoded or until a timer with a first expiration expires. A second MetaData Update State is for searching for SG metadata for example until metadata decoded or until a timer with a second expiration longer than the first expiration expires. An SG Update State is for searching for a complete SG until it is completely downloaded or until a timer expires.

With regard to real time traffic such as streaming of live or programmed media content such as video audio and timed text receiver optimization may be based on RTP packet information. Some aspects may include reuse of a subset of Voodoo processing techniques including packet synchronization and adaptive de jitter. Further optimizations provide a channel switching design with minimal power consumption a video decoder configuration and air interface parameters.

With regard to non real time service e.g. clip cast file cast or clips of multi media content delivered to the device in file format these delivered files can be stored on the device to be viewed by the user at a later time. A protocol stack can advantageously be based on adaptation of FDP FDCP to IP.

In some aspects in order to maintain and enhance the user experience real time traffic delivery over venue cast may include dejitter buffer optimization. Jitter happens when RTP packets arrive at the AT out of time order. If a delayed out of order packet arrives after the current frame is rendered then frames can be dropped causing video distortion. Current method implemented in MSM QTV to address jitter is to use an N second pre roll buffer where N is a positive number. For example if an out of order packet does not arrive within the N second buffer then the player on the device may pause or may accept video distortion. This solution adds an N second latency. In many live venue cast applications e.g. sportscast in a stadium even a 2 second total latency is excessive. Further for example the default pre roll size of typical internet media players is typically between about 5 and about 10 seconds.

Accordingly in some aspects the present devices include optimization of the adaptive pre roll buffer size. For example the pre roll buffer size may be initially set to a value of 250 msec. As out of order RTPs are detected by the AT the AT may slowly increase the pre roll buffer size to a maximum setting. Further the AT may slowly decrease the pre roll buffer size when there are no detected out of order RTP packets for a set time period. Additionally the AT may apply RTP fragment reassembly logic to improve performance.

In another aspect the user experience is maintained and enhanced by providing a venue cast channel switching design that keeps real time traffic delivery as short as practical. A current estimated time based on air interface elements are as follows a FLO Air Interface channel switch is bound by super frame duration 1 sec and a DO air interface channel switch is bound by BOM period default 2.9 sec .

With regard to delays due to media codec elements it is desirable to start play new channel with at least one I frame buffering is needed . A MediaFLO modified H.264 encoder ensures an I frame in every second. An EV DO BCMCS I frame is every 1 2 seconds depending on video encoder used. The described aspects improve the channel switching time for EV DO BCMCS with an air interface parameter change and or encoder modifications. In one aspect an air interface parameter change is to reduce BOM period current default BOM period is 1 CC 426.66. ms for example to a value feasible for real time streaming in plug and play deployment in a dedicated carrier in terms of CC capacity. In one aspect a media encoder change may include inserting low quality I frames every second to allow MSM to reduce the amount of required pre roll buffer storage.

An expected improved channel switch time based on the aspects described herein is listed below in TABLE 4 

The format design and delivery of a venue cast service guide SG may facilitate service discovery and integration of the venue SG into a macro network SG. An AT may access the service guide via the macro network via a website etc. The service guide may be similar to a MediaFLO system type service guide. By providing a common service guide venue specific service guides may be provided independent of the types of receiving ATs. To simplify the handset implementation the service guide format could be similar to that used for terrestrial mobile TV with further adaptation to the underlying air interface. An example of one aspect of a service guide format design for venue cast over EV DO for MediaFLO users is represented in Table 1.

The service guide may be delivered to the AT in any manner. For example the following are two illustrative options which should not be construed as limiting.

Option 1 Multicast of service guide delivery. In this case the service guide is sent as one of the broadcast flows in the venue cast network. The transmission duration should be often enough for new users to be able to quickly detect the service guide. For terminal power efficiency the transmission of the service guide could be separated into full guide and guide metadata where the full guide is sent over longer intervals e.g. every minute while the guide metadata that contains the service guide version number can be sent more frequently on the order of 100 ms . As such an AT may be configured to compare that last version number obtained by the AT with the transmitted version number and if there is a difference then the AT is triggered to obtain either the whole service guide or service guide updates representing the changes between the version number of the service guide on the AT and the version number of the latest service guide being transmitted.

Option 2 Unicast service guide delivery. The SG may also be delivered via unicast. For example in one implementation once the venue cast service is discovered the user could be directed by the application to a local website to download the service guide.

In in one aspect a venue cast service guide SG structure is depicted wherein SG data comprises a program name time charge format etc. block a meta data block an XML block and an SDP block . SG Delivery Encapsulation comprises one or more of an ALC FLUTE FDP block an HTTP block and a MSG block . Physical transport is provided by one or more networks such as DO FLO and WLAN .

In one aspect the FLO DO WAN venue cast SG structure is designed based on that of a MediaFLO MPG. Alternatively an OMA based SG structure design for BCMCS is also available based on OMA standards. For example a venue specific addition to the service guide structure may include venue location information. The physical transport technology is provided with the venue cast and associated parameters. Further in an aspect an association between venue channels and MediaFLO channels can be complimentary content. With regard to delivery in an aspect the SG for venue cast is delivered via a DO air link. In other aspects SGs of venue cast and FLO channels can be integrated on the AT at a presentation level via a unified user interface UI application.

In one aspect venue cast SG SG metadata are delivered via two file cast sessions to the ATs. In an aspect for example a file delivery format that is the same as is used for a clip cast can be used for the SG data. Further for example candidate transmit protocols include ALC FLUTE and modified FDP FDCP. In some aspects the SG SG metadata file is delivered on separate BCMCS flows. In some aspects SG and or SG metadata properties include a data volume that is relatively small e.g. in units of tens of bytes and can be transmitted within one channel cycle CC . Another property of SG or SG metadata such as versioning allows the AT to monitor for a change in the SG to avoid unnecessarily receiving duplicate SG. Allowing less frequent SG file transmission can reduce the air link bandwidth consumption.

Additionally in other aspects SG file properties include a data volume that can be relatively large e.g. up to tens of kilobytes . In such aspects a complete SG file transmission can take multiple Broadcast Overhead Period channel cycles CC s . With regard to delivery timing considerations in some aspects SG metadata is delivered more frequently than a full SG. For example in some aspects a content server initiates the SG metadata file delivery session every Broadcast Overhead Period CC. Further the content server can initiate the SG file delivery session periodically and for each delivery session the SG file can be repeated multiple times.

A sports venue is one example of a single attraction venue. Others may include performances such as concerts plays competitions and so forth. Exemplary features will be described for a sports venue. However these features may be applied to other types of venues.

The sports venue broadcast system may broadcast information including banner advertisements views from in stadium cameras bench cameras crowd cameras and a camera from the broadcast booth an audio and or visual commentary such as a play by play commentary alternate language announcers and highlight reels for the teams. In addition the sports venue broadcast system may broadcast data such as a sports ticker from alternate games a congestion status for the bathrooms Closed Captioning locations for mobile vendors a map of the field showing the players on the field including additional information for the players teams such as formations statistics strategies etc a venue map showing services a menu of food available at the venue venue rules a searchable index of sports teams a searchable index of sports facts and or rules a merchandise catalog a team schedule a venue event schedule etc.

Similar information can be broadcast for other single event venues. For example multiple camera views may be transmitted for a concert lecture performance play and so forth. In addition venue information regarding vendors venue services venue facilities can be applied to other venues. Rather than team and player information information may be provided regarding the production and performers. Alternate language translations and closed captioning may also be provided.

For a multipurpose mobile device information from these transmissions may be downloaded and stored at the mobile device. For example the mobile device may store a venue map of services menus of available food etc. Dedicated devices may include preloaded data and applications to be used in connection with the data transmissions.

A multipurpose mobile device may download such venue specific applications and information upon entering the venue. The information may be downloaded automatically or upon a user selection. As with downloading applications receiving and storing the venue specific information may occur automatically or may occur based on a user entry. In addition a user may set preferences within the mobile device to cause the mobile device to automatically receive and store upon entry into any venue cast system selected types of information that is preferred by the mobile device user.

For sporting events involving multiple opposing teams the display on the mobile device may be themed to fans of the different teams. For example a welcome screen on the mobile device may prompt a user to select a team. The welcome screen may be received by a multipurpose device upon entering the venue or preloaded on a dedicated device. illustrates an exemplary welcome screen for a mobile device at a sporting event. This initial choice may allow the user interface and information displayed by the device to be customized for a particular team. Once a selection is made the mobile device may receive and display audio video and data information that is targeted to fans for the selected team. For example customization may include the use of team colors team logos and team focused information.

The user interface may include information relevant to the sporting event such as game statistics from the current game. The user interface may further include a feature that allows a user to select game statistics from another game and to display those game statistics as well. The user interface may include a number of options such as information regarding the teams information regarding the sport or league information regarding the venue information regarding merchandising deals and other options . Trivia regarding the sporting event teams league and players can also be provided.

As discussed above these aspects of the venue cast system and mobile device may be applied to other performances and events beyond sporting events in addition to multiple attraction venues.

Another example of a single event venue is a performance venue. Currently a concert attendee s experience is limited to their line of site and content displayed on large screens. Furthermore attendees are limited in ways to capture a memory of their concert experience. Attendees can purchase souvenir items and may hold up a camera phone hoping to record a performance. The venue cast system may enhance the experience of spectators by transmitting additional content related to the performance. For example if the performance is a concert the transmitted content may include either pre recorded content content recorded at the venue or a combination of both types of content.

Content recorded at the venue may include behind the scenes content behind the scenes gatherings and or parties behind the scenes preparation for the performance interviews with the artist live camera views of preparation behind the scenes multiple camera views of the performance closer camera views of the performance and live audio video. This content may be captured recorded at the network and transmitted to a receiving device. Alternatively content may be captured and transmitted to a receiving device without being stored at the venue cast network.

Prerecorded content may include interviews with an artist prerecorded practices recordings of other performances and commentary on the performance.

Examples of multiple attraction venues include theme parks fairs race tracks shopping malls casinos trade shows conventions campuses resorts cruise ships zoos entertainment districts and retail superstores. Although features of the venue cast system will be described in connection with a theme park shopping venue and campus one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these features may be customized and applied to any multiple attraction venue.

The venue cast system may transmit information and applications relating to the venue such as movies television performances parades and demonstrations relating to the venue. For example a theme park may transmit entertainment content relating to the theme park. A trade show may transmit a live or prerecorded feed of demonstrations speakers or meetings. The venue cast system may also transmit audio content such as commentary music and alternative language narration. The venue transmission system may broadcast data streams including a real time map of the venue including the present location of mobile attractions information regarding congestion wait times and merchandise at attractions within the venue. Such mobile attractions may include characters at a theme park parades and performers. The venue transmission system may transmit data such as a video channel guide information regarding the venue services and facilities historical information about the venue or attractions attraction previews attraction specific music a list of services available and or open for each attraction in the venue and a billing service. The billing service may be connected to a user s credit card hotel room or other registration for the venue.

As with the other aspects described in this application the venue cast system may be configured to transmit to dedicated device and or multi purpose devices. Applications that might be preloaded on dedicated devices may be downloaded to multipurpose devices. The applications may use stored information in combination with real time data. The user interfaces may be displayed in the same manner or in a different manner dedicated devices and multi purpose devices.

The interactive map may include icons that when selected display a pop up with detailed attraction information as shown in . In this example the attraction selected was a parade. The parade pop up shows a time until the next showing a brief description of the parade and an image from the parade. The attraction information may include age information audio and or video clips retail information or any other information that might be helpful to a theme park visitor.

The user interface may further include selections that provide access to additional features or information. shows a first selection titled What s Happening a second selection titled Day Planner a third selection titled Park TV a fourth selection titled Hot Deals a fifth selection titled Options and a sixth selection titled Display Options . Although six selections are illustrated any number of selections may be provided in the user interface. An area may be reserved at a portion of the screen for displaying merchandising information advertising etc. as shown at .

As shown in connection with the What s Happening element an option may provide additional information about temporary or mobile events and attractions. illustrates an example where information is provided for a mobile event. In this figure directions are given to have a picture taken with a costumed character. A time and location may be given as well as an amount of time until the event. The interactive map may be configured to highlight the location of the event such as by using a marker.

As shown in the Day Planner element may assist the user in generating an itinerary based on input from the user regarding which attractions they would like to visit. The trip planner may generate the itinerary by taking into account a combination of information such as the location of each attraction broadcasted or stored wait times for each attraction and current position information regarding the current position of the device. This option may include aspects of the visit planning application discussed below in connection with . illustrates an exemplary user interface requesting from a user a selection of desired activities and attractions to visit. illustrates aspects of an exemplary user interface displaying a suggested itinerary after a visit planning application has been used.

As illustrated in the Hot Deals element may display merchandising deals to the user. illustrates a few examples of reduced price merchandise. also shows a coupon code . Other means of providing the discount to the device user may be provided such as a bar code etc. The coupon code may be used to track use of the offer by mobile device users as discussed above. The Hot Deals section may describe location information for the merchandise deal and may show the location using a marker on the interactive map.

These merchandise deals may be received via the venue transmission system. Thus they may be updated at any time. They may also be received based on the geographic location of the device and may be designed by the broadcast system to manage a crowd placate customers and encourage visitors to visit less frequented attractions or areas.

As illustrated in the Options element may provide additional display options. illustrates a few exemplary options that allow the user to select whether to display an analog or digital clock whether to display a message board and what language format to use in the display .

Shopping venues are another example of a multiple attraction venue. A venue cast system in a venue including shopping attractions may broadcast content regarding special sale items tracked in real time movie trailers long form puff ads product documentaries coupons an interactive map and other video audio and data.

A device may store or receive transmissions of location based content. The location based content may be associated with a defined location. The device may automatically access or display the location specific content upon the device entering the defined location.

The location may be defined using latitude and longitude coordinates or in terms of venue signal strength as described above. The mobile device may periodically or continuously determine its location. When the location of the mobile device is determined to be within the defined location the device accesses the location based content.

For example the device may store content relating to a food court or to a specific store. Once the device enters the food court or the specific store the device displays the content. The device may also include a processor that automatically switches to a channel targeted to the food court or store. The device may also receive information regarding transportation routes and schedules such as bus or trolley stops and schedules relating to the venue. The device may also receive information regarding special events or hours for the shops or other attractions within the venue.

A dedicated device may be preloaded with applications and data regarding the shopping venue. This preloaded information may be used in connection with real time venue data transmissions. A multi purpose device may download and store any of the applications and data that can be pre loaded on a dedicated device.

The device may further include any of the features described above in connection with other multi attraction venues or other single event venues.

A campus includes multiple events and attractions such as classes shops food vendors campus services performances dances speakers club meetings athletics sporting events housing dining options museums libraries exhibits transportation options recreation options and other events. The features discussed above may be applied to a venue cast system for a campus. An interactive map may be provided for the campus. Information may be transmitted via the venue cast system regarding upcoming events. The venue cast system may also provide information regarding offers and specials at dining options and for merchandise or supplies. Additional information specific to campuses may be included in the venue cast system such as class information transmission of lectures and meetings library information and student services information.

Aspects of the venue cast system may also include a broadcast offer system which broadcasts advertisements or offers to encourage mobile device users to visit a particular location within a venue. Although this aspect is described using an exemplary broadcast system unicast and multicast transmission may also be used. The system may target the broadcast to the entire venue or in contrast may target at least one broadcast stream to a particular area within the venue. The system may include multiple broadcast streams each targeted to a particular area within the venue. In that manner the system could function similarly to that described in connection with wherein the areas and are each within the venue. Each of these inter venue broadcasts may be continuous periodic or one time.

In some aspects a location based merchandising system may additionally include feedback information corresponding to one or more of the areas and within the venue wherein the feedback information is configured for use to formulating subsequent content for broadcast. Feedback information may include but is not limited to data such as a state or status of merchandise or an attraction in a given area. For example one or more monitoring devices may be located in each of the areas and within the venue or in association with an attraction or with merchandise such that each monitoring device provides the state or status information to a TS in the form of feedback information . TS may additionally include logic for subsequently adjusting the broadcast of content based on the received feedback information .

For example in some aspects the system may be configured to broadcast an automatic coupon delivery at areas with customer service difficulties. For example a coupon or other reward may be automatically delivered at an area that is crowded or shut down as identified via feedback information either to compensate the customers within the area placate or otherwise occupy the customer or to encourage movement of the customers to a different area. For example the coupon or reward may be for an attraction or merchandise in the current area in order to compensate the customer for remaining in the area or for an attraction or merchandise in a different area to encourage customer movement. In addition to a coupon or reward entertainment content graphics video audio music etc. may be broadcast for consumption by the customer. Thus when a customer having a mobile device arrives at an area where a vendor or attraction has been shut down or has service difficulties a coupon reward or entertainment content is delivered via the broadcast system to the mobile device as a way to distract or placate the mobile device user.

In another aspect a broadcast stream may be targeted to include a reward for a mobile device for entering a less trafficked area within the venue. For example feedback information may include results of local monitoring of customer traffic in an area or the system may determine this type of feedback information based on other methods of tracking the location of mobile devices. In any case a broadcast stream may also be sent with an advertisement or incentive to visit a less trafficked area of the venue. For example a broadcast stream may include an offer from a vendor located at a distance from a popular attraction or a congested area to encourage movement to the vendor.

In other aspects offers may be broadcast based on a time and or location basis. For example a transmission may include a broadcast stream including an offer at a given time of day corresponding to a less trafficked time for a first food vendor where the broadcast stream is targeted to an area corresponding to a location of a second popular food vendor in order to divert business to the first food vendor.

In another aspect offers may have a variable value component based on time and or location. For example a food vendor may target offers having an increasing value to areas having an increasing distance from a location of the vendor. For instance offers targeted for area adjacent to the vendor may include a first smaller incentive such as a 10 cost reduction for a purchase whereas offers targeted to areas beyond the adjacent areas may include a second relatively larger incentive such as a coupon with greater than 10 off a purchase.

In addition the offers may be targeted based purely on time. For example at 10 00 AM a coupon may be delivered for 10 off a purchase of a breakfast item at a food vendor at 11 00 AM a coupon may be delivered for 20 off a purchase of a breakfast item at the same food vendor and at 11 30 a coupon may be delivered for 25 off a purchase of a breakfast item at the same food vendor.

Any combination of the time and location basis may be used for targeting an offer. Thus the broadcast system can encourage the direction of traffic and reduce crowding in an indirect and non intrusive manner.

In further aspects messages can be created and broadcast at any time. This allows a venue to monitor congestion wait times at attractions and less trafficked areas and to create and send offers and advertisements accordingly.

The broadcast system also may facilitate or provide an additional virtual attraction such as a scavenger hunt within the venue. The scavenger hunt may include broadcasts of clues e.g. location specific information to encourage the mobile device user to visit and engage with various locations within the venue. As the mobile device enters a location the mobile device may automatically tune to a broadcast stream based on a determination of its location corresponding to the defined geographic area associated with the broadcast stream. For example such a broadcast stream may include information regarding the scavenger hunt such as clues corresponding to the respective location. In addition to entering a location to which a broadcast stream is targeted the broadcast stream may also provide information to encourage or require the mobile device user to interact with an item at the location in order to receive additional information for the scavenger hunt.

The system may also include a tracking component in order to determine the effectiveness of the broadcast advertisement or offer. For example coupon type information may be broadcast including a coupon code. Information regarding the time that the coupon code was broadcast the time at which the coupon code was received and viewed on a mobile device and the time at which a customer redeems the coupon code can be tracked for example by a client application on the respective mobile device. The coupon code may include but is not limited to an identifier such as a written code a barcode to be displayed on the screen of the mobile device etc. In some aspects for example such a bar code may be scanned at a time of redemption or verification such as by a point of sale POS device when purchasing an item or by an entry device upon entering an event. Such a POS or entry device may be represented by monitoring device such is in communication with system for example such that once the code is received the associated data regarding the time at which the mobile device user viewed the coupon and the time of redemption e.g. the feedback information are received and stored by tracking component for use in further analysis. For example tracking component may include analysis logic such as but not limited to algorithms neural networks fuzzy logic etc. to determine or predict information based on feedback information . Such determinations or predictions may include for example marketing analysis to determine an effectiveness of each coupon in each area.

As noted above such coupon information may be targeted to specific locations within the venue similar to the description in connection with . Each mobile device and may be configured to determine and log its location and then to check and see if there is a coupon available for the location. Alternatively or in addition each mobile device may be configured to continuously monitor for broadcasting of offers and to receive a broadcast offer upon entering a given area. Thus through operation tracking component a venue can determine the persuasiveness of an offer and can monitor the ability of such offers to encourage visitors to attend various areas within the venue.

A number of attractions within a venue may be mobile attractions. For example such attractions may include but are not limited to parades mobile performers or costumed characters mobile retail kiosks and mobile food vendors. As these attractions or elements of a venue are mobile they can be difficult for visitors to find. In the described aspects the location of mobile attractions can be tracked and such information can be transmitted to a mobile device via a venue transmission system.

For example referring to in one aspect a unique identifier is associated with a mobile attraction . For example the unique identifier may be an identifier of a transmitter . Among others the identifier may be a Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag or a WiFi transmitter. If the mobile attraction is a costumed character the RFID tag may be attached to the costume. The transmitter transmits a signal including the unique identifier and further indicating a location of mobile attraction .

In some aspects a venue system receives the signal from the transmitter . For example a venue management server may obtain and store the information from signal in association with mobile attraction for example in an attraction database . Attraction database may include one or more fields for each attraction identifier corresponding to a mobile attraction. The fields may include but are not limited to a daily schedule field a management field and a current location field. The information received via signal e.g. current location may be used to update the current location field for the mobile attraction. This updated information may then be transmitted over the venue transmission system.

For example via TS the venue transmission system may transmit a venue transmission including the location information to identify the location of the mobile attraction . Accordingly a mobile device receiving the venue transmission thereby receives the location of the mobile attraction . For example a mobile device may include a client application configured to generate e.g. visually display or audibly announce the location to a user. For example the location of the mobile attraction may be displayed on a map of the venue.

In another aspect the venue system and or the mobile device may store a general schedule for the mobile attraction . The current location of the mobile attraction received from signal may be used to update the general schedule . Also the mobile device may receive alerts updating the general schedule based on newly received location information for an attraction.

In another variation the mobile device may include a receiver for receiving the signal from the transmitter as mobile attraction moves into range of the transmitter . Upon receiving the signal the mobile device may provide location information for the mobile attraction to a user. For example the mobile device may display the location of the mobile attraction or update a general schedule for the mobile attraction as discussed above. In addition the mobile device may provide an alert to a user regarding the mobile attraction. For example if the mobile attraction is a costumed character the mobile device may provide an alert that the costumed character is nearby and provide detailed information regarding the costumed character s location.

In this variation receiving the signal may also trigger the mobile device to obtain information from the venue cast system .

In another variation the attraction may not be mobile. For example a restaurant or other attraction may have an identifier associated with its location . As the mobile device approaches the vicinity of the restaurant and receives the signal the mobile device may provide an alert to the user. For example the alert may be a coupon or advertisement for the restaurant.

Thus this aspect may be used to encourage consumers to move around the venue and to respond to congestion. The alerts may be provided for less visited or less obvious attractions. Congestion levels may be monitored and mobile attractions such as costumed characters may be directed to move away from crowded areas in order to encourage crowds to disperse.

Information from the signal associated with the identifier and or attraction that is received by a venue cast system may also be used to locate key employees or to study work flow at large venues or venues having a large number of employees.

In addition to tracking mobile attractions an attraction identifier may be used to generate interest in merchandise items. For example an identifier may be attached to rare merchandise items such as limited quantity items or collectibles. The location of these items may be transmitted via signal in association with their respective identifier . As such the location of the items e.g. the attraction may be provided to a consumer at the mobile device. In addition an alert may be provided to the user to inform them about the item and its location. If a limited number of the items are available for purchase an alert may be provided to the mobile device user each time one of the items is purchased. By providing alerts about the number of items that have sold or the remaining number of items the system may create a sense of urgency in a customer to encourage the customer to purchase the item.

As an example a theme park venue may have one of a kind items such as original cell paintings used in making cartoons or films related to the theme park. A cell painting may have an identifier such as an RFID tag that transmits a signal. The signal can be received by the venue system and the location of the item may be transmitted to a mobile device along with information regarding the importance of the item. The RFID signal may also be received directly by the mobile device and the device may alert the user that an item of interest is nearby. This can encourage venue visitors to visit the store to view the original cell painting. The importance of the item may be described at its display location. As such a customer that was not originally interested in purchasing the cell painting may become interested based on the alert or after viewing the item.

Often venues include multiple attractions. Among others a multiple attraction venue may be for example a theme park having a number of rides performances retail shops restaurants and costumed characters a fair having rides performances events and competitions a shopping center with stores performances and restaurants a campus with classes meetings and other events or a trade show with multiple vendors performances speakers meetings. Each ride event performance or attraction may have a certain popularity age limit waiting time etc. It can be very difficult for a visitor to decide on a sequence of attractions that they wish to visit in a limited amount of time. For venues including a plurality of attractions a venue visit planning application may be provided that includes an algorithm for assisting a mobile device user in determining which attractions to visit and at what time.

The visit planning application may be provided for download to a multipurpose mobile device that enters the venue area and may be pre loaded on dedicated devices. The visit planning application may use a combination of pre stored and real time venue information received over a venue broadcasting system to assist a user in planning which venue attractions to visit. The visit planning application may also use information input by the mobile device user in combination with the venue information.

Among others such user input information may include a designation of desired attractions a rating for types of attractions an user age and an amount of time to be spent in the venue.

For example the visit planning application may consider any combination of the following variables before providing an attraction sequence list a current or average wait time for the attraction a general or user specific rating of the attraction the age of the mobile device user general or user specified interest in types of attractions distance from the current location of the mobile device to the attraction areas previously covered by the mobile device and the current availability of an attraction.

First in step the mobile device determines a current location of the mobile device either by user input or by a location determination feature. Then the application lists the existing attractions in step . At step the application determines whether each of the existing attractions is available. This determination may be made using information broadcast at the venue or based on a downloaded list of available dates and times and comparing it to the date and time determined by the mobile device. At step if an attraction is unavailable the application removes the attraction from the list. The application returns to step until the availability of each of the attractions has been determined.

The application determines whether the attraction has already been visited in step . Previously visited attractions are removed from the list in step . These steps continue until all previously visited attractions are removed.

Then the application uses an indication of user desire to visit the attraction in step . If the user has not indicated a desire to visit the attraction the attraction is removed from the list in step . These steps continue until only user desired attractions remain.

In step the list compares an age input by the user of the mobile device with any age requirements for the remaining list of attractions. If the required age is greater than the age input by the user the attraction is removed from the list in step .

Then the application determines the distance from each remaining attraction to the current location of the user in step . In step the application calculates the time Td required to reach each ride from the current location. In step the application finds the wait time Tw for each ride. The wait time Tw may be a current wait time received from the venue broadcast system. In addition the wait time may be an average wait time for the attraction. As the wait time often changes according to the time of day the application may take into consideration the various average wait times based on a time of the potential visit to the attraction. In step the application determines a total time for visiting the attraction Tt which is equal to the sum of the time required to reach the attraction and the wait time for the attraction or Tt Td Tw. In step the application determines the attraction with the minimum attraction visit time Tt in the remaining list of attractions. This attraction is selected. The selected attraction may be provided as a suggested option and this attraction may be added to a sequence list as the first attraction.

If the application is creating a list of attractions to visit the application may then remove the current location illustrated as step and perform a calculation to find a second attraction having the minimum total visit time Tt from the location of the first selected attraction. The application does this by replacing the determined current location with the location for the first attraction in the sequence list in step . The second attraction is then added to the sequence list. The application may continue the calculations until a predetermined number of attractions are listed or until each of the desired attractions are included in the sequence list. The application may also stop when a combined total time for visiting the selected attractions exceeds the amount of time the user will spend in the venue. An attraction sequence list may be created in step . The predetermined number of attractions may be one so that the application recalculates a next attraction each time a mobile device user finishes a visit to a previously selected attraction. This may enable the application to most effectively use a current wait time being broadcast by the venue broadcast system. Rather than selecting only one attraction the application may be configured to provide the mobile device user with a predetermined number of attractions having the lowest total visit time so that the user may select among the attractions. The predetermined number may be preset or selected by a user. For example the application may display the top three attractions that will have the lowest total visit time.

As every visitor to a venue may not have a mobile device the venue may provide rental mobile devices capable of receiving targeted venue broadcasts. As it is often difficult to collect all rental devices at an exit the rental mobile device may include a mechanism to remind a user to return the device once the user reaches the venue exit.

The rental mobile device may include a position determining application such as GPS. The rental mobile device determines the current position of the device and determines if the device is either 1 determined to be at the periphery of the venue or 2 determined to be within a predetermined area of the venue. If the mobile device is determined to be either at the periphery or within the predetermined area the mobile device starts an alarm on the rental mobile device to alert the user to return the rental mobile device.

One variation may include defining a venue periphery in terms of latitude and longitude and storing the information in the rental mobile device. A central point of the venue may also be defined. The device continues to detect its current location and to compare its location to the defined venue periphery and central point. If the current location of the device is between the central point and the defined periphery the device does not sound the alarm. When the device is determined not to be between the central point and the periphery the device triggers the alarm.

Another variation may include defining an area in latitude and longitude for each exit gate the defined area including a small periphery around the exit gate. The defined area is stored in the device. The device continues to detect its current location and to compare its location to the defined area. If the current location of the device falls within the defined periphery of the exit gate the device triggers the alarm to signal the user to return the device.

In addition to using a location determination to trigger an alarm a rental device can be configured to trigger an alarm based on the detected signal strength of a venue broadcast system. As the venue broadcast system is limited to the venue periphery the strength of the signal received by a rental device is another way to determine whether the device is at the periphery or outside the venue. A strength of the venue broadcast signal is determined at the periphery of the venue. This peripheral signal strength is stored in the mobile device. The mobile device monitors the signal strength received from the venue broadcast system and compares it to the stored peripheral signal strength. When the power of the signal falls below the peripheral signal strength the device triggers the alarm. The device may be configured to trigger the alarm only after the monitored signal falls below the peripheral signal strength for a predetermined duration. In order to make sure that the signal power received at an exit gate is low a directional antenna may be used.

Aspects of the venue cast system may include a broadcast multicast or unicast system for distributing content to be stored at an access terminal. Exclusive venue content may be transmitted to access terminals at the venue for storage on the access terminal. Among other things the exclusive content may include a recording of a performance or event at a venue an edited summary clip of the performance or event other recordings an application related to the venue and a coupon offer for a venue related item.

Similar to the distribution of coupons and offers described in above the coupons and offers may include a variable value component based on time and or location.

The exclusive content may be streamed for storage simultaneously with the broadcast of other venue cast content that is not configured for storage.

For example at a concert live content may be broadcast such as alternate camera angles. At any time additional venue cast content may be streamed to a receiving access terminal for storage on the access terminal. For example one venue cast channel may broadcast live concert content such as multiple camera angles to access terminals while a second channel broadcasts exclusive content to be stored at the access terminal. This exclusive content is saved at the access terminal for later consumption.

As the exclusive content is stored at the access terminal any type of digital rights management may be applied to the stored exclusive content. The content may include temporal geographic and other limitations to storage and access.

Often attendees to a concert or performance will arrive before a performance. By offering exclusive content at the performance the venue cast system offers exclusive performance content to a targeted audience waiting for and or attending the performance. This may include an exclusive content package that fans cannot obtain elsewhere. By distributing exclusive applications such as games for storage at an access terminal the venue cast system further entertains a waiting audience. The venue cast system also allows for a more efficient use of the existing investment in production. For example audio and or video recordings of the performance may already be captured for other purposes. This also provides an additional form of souvenir that allows the performance attendee to save a memorable reminder of their experience. By providing a high quality recording of the actual performance attended by a fan the venue cast system reduces the motivation for piracy. By distributing coupons or offers relating to a concert or performance the stored content promotes purchases by the attendee.

Security mechanisms may be provided to limit access to the transmission. For example receipt of the transmission may be limited to concert attendees or to a subgroup of concert attendees. This subgroup may include attendees paying an additional fee.

The exclusive content from the performance may also be used to broaden the performance audience. For example the content may be offered to users beyond the performance venue. These variations may be applied to other single or multiple attraction venue cast systems.

Another aspect includes providing a mechanism for efficiently billing the venue cast services to an end user in a reliable way. This aspect includes suitable security features applied to the venue cast transmission and providing a subscription to the venue cast transmission. The venue cast system may include a Conditional Access System to grant access to transmissions to mobile device users based on predetermined criteria. The predetermined criteria may limit access to dedicated devices to devices within a predefined geographic boundary or to devices with a subscription to the venue transmission system. The venue cast service may be part of the MediaFLO service package. In addition users may subscribe to the venue cast service for a period of time such as for a day spent at the venue. A subscription may also be offered and obtained on the spot via the venue cast system.

Billing may be provided as an aspect of use of the venue cast system. Billing may be carried out in a number of ways. For example billing may be carried out using a CSR or as part of a purchase at a venue. A mobile device s usage of the venue transmission system may also be tracked and billed to a user.

Returning to exemplary security and billing aspects of a venue cast system are depicted. In some aspects the multimode mobile device subscribes depicted as paying a fee to the venue cast network in order to receive keys e.g. decryption that enable access to broadcast and or venue cast . For example the multimode mobile device utilizes a cellular or wireless two direction data channel in order to subscribe not shown . The identity of this mobile device and subscription keys depicted at are shared with a local mobile data network e.g. EV DO that receives venue cast content from provider e.g. live video feed venue specific clips etc and distributes it by data packet unicast or multicast via AP .

It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that security associated with an air interface specific architecture can be incorporated. For example in EV DO BCMCS if a BCMCS controller is used in the service discovery and information acquisition procedures then a key exchange mechanism in BCMCS can be used for venue cast. The venue cast service provider could receive revenue in one or combination of the following mechanisms. First advertisement and or sponsorship can be arranged in which case the service could be offered to the end user with no charge. Alternatively or in addition subscription via flat fee to one of the terrestrial mobile TV service packages can be offered. The terrestrial mobile TV network then delivers the relevant service keys to both the user and the venue cast network. The authentication mechanism could be based on the underlying air interface for venue cast. For example for delivering venue cast over EV DO BCMCS to MediaFLO system users the user can subscribe to a venue cast package from the MediaFLO system. The MediaFLO system network then dispatches the service key for the venue cast package to both the user and the BCMCS network. Both sides then generates broadcast access key BAK based on the service key to encrypt and decipher the content. Alternatively or in addition subscription at the spot or at the venue can be supported. In this case the venue cast application would direct the user to a local website for instant subscription after which the relevant key parameters can be delivered to the user for example by the venue cast network via unicast.

Authentication depicted at over a bi directional venue cast wireless channel can serve as a usage measure that is communicated from the local mobile data network to the media broadcast network or the cellular network as depicted at for purposes such as compensation for a venue sporting franchise theme park etc. .

In order to limit the reception of venue cast information to those inside a venue a service key may be delivered locally upon entering a venue. For example it may be desirable to limit the reception of a concert targeted venue cast to those who purchased tickets to the concert and are inside the concert venue.

As illustrated in a key delivery mechanism may be provided near entrances to provide ATs entering the venue with a token identifier. The transmission coverage area of the key delivery mechanism may be set up to cover the entrance area of the venue . As the AT passes through the entrance it passes through the transmission area of the key delivery mechanism and receives the key. The key delivery mechanism may be for example a blue tooth or Near Field Communications NFC type device that transmits a signal with a token identifier or other key to be used by the AT to decrypt a venue cast. A subscription may still be required but the delivery of the key may limit the users able to subscribe to those users that pass through the entrance of the venue.

With reference to illustrated is a system capable of performing service discovery for a venue cast transmission and receiving the venue cast transmission. For example system can reside at least partially within a transmitter mobile device etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping can include a module for receiving an overhead signal from a non venue network .

Further logical grouping can comprise a module for extracting information for receiving a venue specific transmission from the overhead signal . Therefore the system may discovery the existence of a venue level transmission by monitoring a signal from a non venue network. Furthermore the system may extract the information necessary to receive the venue level transmission from an overhead signal from the non venue network. Furthermore logical grouping can comprise a module for tuning to receive the venue specific transmission based on the extracted information . Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and can exist within memory .

It should be apparent that the aspects herein may be embodied in a wide variety of forms and that any specific structure function or both being disclosed herein is merely representative. Based on the teachings herein one skilled in the art should appreciate that an aspect disclosed herein may be implemented independently of any other aspects and that two or more of these aspects may be combined in various ways. For example an apparatus may be implemented or a method may be practiced using any number of the aspects set forth herein. In addition such an apparatus may be implemented or such a method may be practiced using other structure functionality or structure and functionality in addition to or other than the one or more of the aspects set forth herein.

It is to be recognized that depending on the aspect certain acts or events of any of the methods described herein can be performed in a different sequence may be added merged or left out together e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the method . Moreover in certain aspects acts or events may be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors rather than sequentially.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features are presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

In yet another aspect of the present invention a service and application management framework for venue specific services is provided to manage applications that may be delivered and or used in connection with a venue. Services or applications that are relevant and available only at specific venues may need to be managed to enhance a user s experience. Consider a multitude of venues and different applications that may be required to interact with the data available at such different venues. As an example at a shopping mall a user may desire access to an interactive map application on his her handheld which helps the user navigate the mall a coupons application an inventory application and or a restaurant seating ordering application. When the user travels to a different venue like a sports stadium a different set of application may be needed to access the data available in that venue e.g. a video application providing the user with videos of live action from the ongoing game and a news application providing scores and statistics from games around the country. When a user moves between venues that have different services available there are some fundamental problems upon entering a given venue discovering what services are available once the available services are known presenting the appropriate applications for the user so that they may access those services. once the user leaves the venue cleaning up the applications both to control dispersion of content and to free up resources on the wireless device .

A service layer may for example be provided as a channel over on broadcast or it may be accessed interactively via unicast. The service layer may provide information about which services are available in a given venue. For example the service layer or channel may provide information about the applications are needed to access services and how to obtain such applications available over a unicast connection at a specific URL or being broadcast over a broadcast system like FLO . The application information may contain metadata including an identification of which version of the application can be used on particular devices to accommodate the multitude of devices and the fact that different devices probably need different builds of applications ex. Windows mobile app vs Brew app . The application information may also contain management rules for example providing an expiration date for when the application must be deleted ex. once the user leaves the venue 2 days after the user leaves the venue how long an application can have access to content like video footage at sports games downloaded through the application ex. content deleted as soon as user leaves the venue content available for a month after the user leaves the venue etc. . Such applications may also be signed for security.

A management agent may be provided on the wireless device to interact with the service layer. Such a management agent may be configured to be running all the time or it may be manually or automatically activated upon entry to a venue. The management agent receives information from the service layer to identify and download the applications needed to access venue services based on user interest and device capabilities. The management agent may notify a user about the availability of such services via a popup on their device or similar means and may access the applications. Once the user is done accessing the applications or leaves the venue the applications may be deleted based on the management rules.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or aspects as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or aspects may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or aspect unless stated otherwise.

