---

title: Cable television system with integrated social streaming
abstract: A cable television system with integrated social streaming. The cable television system with integrated social streaming includes a set-top box in communication with a camera and/or a microphone that allows video and/or audio communication over a social streaming channel offered by the cable provider. The cable television system with integrated social streaming provides an interactive experience for a set-top box user by allowing the user to participate in video and/or audio conversations with friends on supported social streaming services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09038102&OS=09038102&RS=09038102
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 09038102
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130205
---
Over the air and cable television generally offers a linear experience where the viewer can only watch content offered by the cable provider. The experience provided by over the air and cable television is also typically limited to an individual or a local small group e.g. family and friends experience. Communicating with remote family and friends is generally accomplished using systems capable of transmitting textual messages voice and or images e.g. instant messaging texting phone calls or email with limitations on bandwidth small screen sizes internet connection requirements expensive data plans or social networks not integrated with the television viewing experience. With currently existing communication systems none provide an integrated user experience integrating the conversation participants with the television viewing experience. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present invention has been made.

Embodiments of the present invention may provide for a cable system with integrated social streaming that include a set top box in communication with a camera and or a microphone that allows video and or audio communication over a social streaming channel offered by the cable provider. The cable system with integrated social streaming provides an interactive experience for a set top box user by allowing the user to participate in video and or audio conversations with friends on supported social streaming services.

Various embodiments of the cable system with integrated social streaming include a set top box a television display a speaker a camera and a microphone at the physical location associated with a cable system subscriber account. The subscriber creates one or more user profiles corresponding to individuals associated with the subscriber account. The set top box is connected to the cable system network and serves as the client that allows the set top box user to participate in conversations with friends on supported social streaming services. The cable system network is connected to the internet allowing the set top box user to communicate with friends on various supported social streaming services. Friends are not limited to using the set top box as a client and may participate in the conversation using any number of various hardware devices as clients including but not limited to phones camera phones and computers.

Various embodiments of the cable system with integrated social streaming include a social streaming application provided by the programming guide of the set top box. Various embodiments utilize cable card or other alternative technologies in place of a set top box. In some embodiments the social streaming application is installed on a smart television. The social streaming application includes a local display component a television channel selection component a social network interface component at least one live social streaming component and a profile management component. In the illustrated embodiment the social streaming front end also includes optional components such a logo and or advertising component and an options and settings component. The back end of the social streaming application handles connections to supported social streaming services captures local audio and video using the camera and microphone encodes and addresses the captured audio and video streams the encoded audio and video determines if incoming audio and video is addressed to the active user profile decodes incoming audio and video addressed to the active user profile and sends the decoded audio and video to front end for output.

Initially the set top box user logs in to the programming guide on the set top box using a user profile associated with a subscriber account. The user profile uniquely identifies the set top box user and allows the retrieval of customized settings such as favorite channels and in this case social streaming service login information. The local display component shows the video captured by the attached camera and allows the set top box user to monitor what friends are seeing. The television channel selection component provides a list of channels offered by the provider of the cable system. The cable system includes at least one channel dedicated to social streaming.

The social network interface component allows the currently active user profile to be associated with any supported social streaming service s and provides information about and or from any social streaming services associated with the currently active user profile. Once the currently active user profile is connected to a social streaming service the social network interface component displays a list of the user s friends from the connected social streaming service. The user names of friends and other information about the social streaming service or the friends is retrieved from each social streaming service. The friend list also shows a status indicator next to each friend name to indicate the friend s status. In some embodiments the social streaming application uses image recognition to automate setting the active set top box user profile and or the status of the active set top box user.

When user selects the option to add or log in to a social streaming service the social network interface component displays a list of supported social streaming services. Once the user selects a social streaming service the social network interface component displays fields used to log in to the selected social streaming service. Once a social streaming service is added the login information e.g. user name and password are optionally stored as part of the active user profile allowing the user to automatically connect to the social streaming service without requiring reentry of the login information.

Selecting an online friend from the friend list initiates a conversation with the selected friend. The live social stream from the selected friend appears in the live social streaming component. The programming guide may include more than one live social streaming component allowing more than one conversation to occur at one time. If the set top box user appears online but the set top box is not tuned to the social streaming channel and the set top box includes more than one tuner some embodiments offer the set top box user the option of displaying both the content of the currently tuned television channel and the live social stream. Either content stream may be selected as the primary display with the other content stream appearing in a picture in picture PIP window. Where the participants in a conversation are both set top box users the use of a PIP window for displaying the television content stream or the live social stream contributes to a shared television content viewing experience.

In various embodiments selecting a friend from the friend list offers an option to display the profile of the selected friend retrieved from the social streaming service with which the selected friend is associated. In various embodiments information from a set top box user s profile associated with the subscriber account is provided to friends. The information in the set top box user s profile may also include information collected and or aggregated by the cable provider through the programming guide. In some embodiments the set top box user profile information is used to provide recommendations based on the set top box user s current activity.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

A cable television system with integrated social streaming is described herein and illustrated in the accompanying figures. The cable television system with integrated social streaming includes a set top box in communication with a camera and or a microphone that allows video and or audio communication over a social streaming channel offered by the cable provider. The cable television system with integrated social streaming provides an interactive experience for a set top box user by allowing the user to participate in video and or audio conversations with friends on supported social streaming services.

The camera and microphone are in communication with the set top box allowing the set top box to capture local audio and video. In one embodiment the camera and microphone are integrated into the television set in communication with the set top box. In another embodiment the camera and microphone are in an external module in communication with the set top box. In yet another embodiment the camera and microphone are integrated into the set top box.

The social streaming application includes a local display component a television channel selection component a social network interface component at least one live social streaming component and a profile management component . In the illustrated embodiment the social streaming front end also includes optional components such a logo and or advertising component and an options and settings component . The back end of the social streaming application handles connections to supported social streaming services captures local audio and video using the camera and microphone encodes and addresses the captured audio and video and streams the encoded audio and video on the social streaming channel receives incoming audio and video on the social streaming channel determines if incoming audio and video is addressed to the active user profile decodes incoming audio and video addressed to the active user profile and sends the decoded audio and video to the front end for output .

Initially the set top box user logs in to the social streaming application using a user profile associated with a subscriber account. The user profile uniquely identifies the set top box user and allows the retrieval of customized settings such as favorite channels and in this case social streaming service login information. In various embodiments logging into the social streaming application is accomplished through the profile management component .

In some embodiments the social streaming application uses image recognition to automate setting the active set top box user profile to that of the user present in the camera s field of view . For example the social streaming application may be trained by associating one or more user specific recognition patterns e.g. images of the user s face with a particular user profile. When the social streaming application is executed a user recognition technique e.g. facial recognition is used to attempt to identify the user. If a matching pattern is found the social streaming application automatically makes the user profile associated with the matching pattern the active user profile.

The television channel selection component displays a list of channels offered by the provider of the cable television network . The cable television network includes at least one channel dedicated to social streaming. In various embodiments the list of channels is customizable based on the selected user profile. The selected television channel is highlighted in the television channel selection component. In the illustrated embodiment the social streaming channel is selected.

The social network interface component allows the currently active user profile to be associated with any supported social streaming service s and provides information about and or from any social streaming services associated with the currently active user profile. In the illustrated embodiment the social network interface component includes an option to add and or log in to a social streaming service and an option to remove and or log out of a social streaming service. Once the user adds or logs into a social streaming service the social network interface component displays fields used to log in to the selected social streaming service allowing the social streaming application to obtain the login information for the social streaming service . In one embodiment when a user selects the option to add or log in to a social streaming service the social network interface component displays a list of supported social streaming services . Examples of the fields used to log in to the selected social streaming service include but are not limited to a user name field and a password field. In various embodiments the front end displays an on screen keyboard for entering characters into the fields. At the conclusion of the adding a social streaming service action the social network interface component returns to the friend list display. Once a social streaming service is added the login information e.g. user name and password are optionally saved as part of the active user profile allowing the user to automatically connect to the social streaming service without requiring reentry of the login information .

The option to log out of a social streaming service disconnects an active connection to a selected social streaming service without removing the login information from the active user profile. When the log out action is selected the social network interface component displays a list of the currently connected social streaming services. Once the user selects a social streaming service the connection to the selected social streaming service is terminated and the social network interface component returns to the friend list display.

The option to remove a social streaming service permanently disconnects any active connection to a selected social streaming service and permanently removes the login information from the active user profile. When the remove action is selected the social network interface component displays a list of the social streaming services currently associated with the active user profile. Once the user selects a social streaming service any active connection to the selected social streaming service is terminated and the login information for the selected social streaming service is removed from the active user profile. At the conclusion of adding a social streaming service action the social network interface component returns to the friend list display.

The social streaming application handles the necessary authentication to connect to the selected social streaming service using the supplied login information over the social streaming channel . Once the currently active user profile is connected to a social streaming service via the social streaming channel the social streaming application retrieves and displays a list of the user s friends . The user names of friends and other information about the social streaming service or the friends is retrieved from each social streaming service . The list is displayed in the social network interface component . In some embodiments the social network interface component uses indicia to identify the social streaming services to which the friend belongs. For example the list of friends may be color coded by social streaming service or may display icons representing the social streaming service next to each name.

The friend list also shows a status indicator next to each friend name to indicate the friend s status. At a minimum the status indicator shows whether the friend is online i.e. connectivity . In some embodiments the status indicator shows the activity of the friend. Examples of the activities shown include but are not limited to whether the friend is active idle away or busy e.g. watching a television channel . In some embodiments the status indicator shows the social streaming capabilities of the friend s device. For example the status indicator may show whether the device used by the friend supports both video and audio or audio only. In various embodiments the status identifier uses two or more indicia to represent connectivity activity and capability. Examples of suitable indicia include color coding and different icons. In various embodiments the status of the user of the set top box is only shown as available when the set top box is tuned to the social streaming channel. In other embodiments the user of the set top box can choose to be shown as always online even when the set top box is tuned to a channel other than the social streaming channel.

In some embodiments the social streaming application monitors activity or motion to automate setting the status of the active set top box user . For example if there is no activity from the set top box controls or the remote for a selected amount of time the status of the active set top box user is set to an appropriate inactive status such as away. When activity from the set top box controls or the remote occurs the status of the active set top box user is restored to an active status such as available. In some embodiments the social streaming application uses image recognition to automate setting the status of the active set top box user. For example the social streaming application may employ motion detection algorithms to look for movement in the camera s field of view. For example the social streaming application may analyze and compare successive images captured by said camera for objects that appear in different locations in successive images to identify motion in the camera s field of view. If there is no motion in the camera s field of view the status of the active set top box user is set to an appropriate inactive status such as away. In some embodiments the social streaming application only changes the status to an inactive status if motion is not detected for a selected amount of time. In some embodiments the facial or other recognition is used to determine if the set top box user is present in the camera s field of view and if not present the set top box user s status is changed to an inactive status. If the set top box user s status is an inactive status and motion is detected in the camera s field of view the social streaming application restores the status to an active status such as available. In some embodiments facial or other recognition must identify the presence of the set top box user before the status is restored to an active status. In some embodiments a filter is applied to a moving object to avoid false triggers. For example the filter may prevent the camera from restoring the status to an active status due to movement of an animal. In some embodiments the filter is size e.g. height shape e.g. two legged or four legged or mass e.g. weight or space occupied based.

The social streaming application allows the set top box user to participate in a live conversation including audio and or video with a remote participant . Specifically the social streaming application allows the set top box user to invite a friend to a conversation or be invited to a conversation by a friend . Selecting an online friend from the friend list initiates a conversation with the selected friend. The device and or social streaming service being used by the friend dictate how the invitation is accepted. In one embodiment the conversation is initiated by sending an invitation to the friend. Accepting the invitation is similar to answering a phone call. The live social stream from the selected friend appears in the live social streaming component. In various embodiments the live social streaming component is resizable from the default size to full screen and various sizes in between including but not limited to one quarter one third or one half of the screen.

As previously mentioned the programming guide may include more than one live social streaming component allowing more than one conversation to occur at one time. Each live social streaming component displays the live social stream from one selected friend. In various embodiments all selected friends are joined in a party where the audio streams are merged and shared between all selected friends. The set top box user may also view live video feeds from all selected friends.

When a friend initiates a conversation with the set top box user the manner in which the invitation is handled depends upon the state of the set top box. In various embodiments the friend s live stream is automatically displayed in the live streaming component when the set top box is tuned to the social streaming channel. In some embodiments the set top box user receives an invitation and must accept the invitation before the video and or audio captured by the camera and or microphone is sent back to the friend initiating the conversation.

The local display component shows the video captured by the attached camera and allows the set top box user to monitor what friends are seeing . For example this allows the set top box user to ensure that his her image is properly framed or adequately lit. In some embodiments the local display component may alternatively display the programming from the last television channel.

If the set top box user appears online but the set top box is not tuned to the social streaming channel the programming guide handles an invitation from a friend in various ways. In some embodiments the set top box displays a notification alerting the set top box user to return to the social streaming channel to join a conversation. If the set top box includes more than one tuner some embodiments offer the set top box user the option of displaying both the content of the currently tuned television channel and the live social stream. Either content stream may be selected as the primary display with the other content stream appearing in a picture in picture PIP window. For example the PIP window may initially display the live social stream and the set top box user may choose to swap the locations of the content streams so the live social stream appears in the primary window and the television channel appears in the PIP window. Where the participants in a conversation are both set top box users the use of a PIP window for displaying the television content stream or the live social stream contributes to a shared television content viewing experience.

If the profile management component is selected e.g. the switch users control is selected the social streaming settings including but not limited to the login information provided for any supported social streaming service is saved for the active user profile before another user profile is activated. In some embodiments the look and feel e.g. the size of the live streaming component of the social streaming application is also saved for the active profile. In some embodiments the options to add or remove social streaming services and or to log in or out of a social streaming service are accessed through the settings control of the profile management component rather than being included in the social network interface component .

In various embodiments selecting a friend from the friend list offers an option to display the profile of the selected friend retrieved from the social streaming service with which the selected friend is associated . In some embodiments the profile is displayed in the social network interface component . When the set top box user finishes viewing the profile the friend list is restored to the social network interface component. In other embodiments the profile is displayed in the live social streaming component . If the live social streaming component is showing a live social stream the profile temporarily replaces the live video stream but the live audio stream continues. When the set top box user finishes viewing the profile the live video stream is restored. In some embodiments the profile information or some portion of the profile information is displayed around e.g. above or below the live video stream in the live social streaming component without replacing the live social stream as shown in the illustrated embodiment.

In various embodiments information from a set top box user s profile associated with the subscriber account is provided to friends . In some embodiments the information in the set top box user s profile includes information provided by the set top box user. The information in the set top box user s profile may also include information collected and or aggregated by the cable provider through the programming guide. In some embodiments the set top box user s profile may indicate the television channel to which the set top box is currently tuned or the show the set top box user is currently watching. In some embodiments the set top box user s profile may indicate the television channel or show that the set top box user has predominately watched during some period of time e.g. all time or a selected recent time period .

In some embodiments the set top box user profile information is used to provide recommendations based on the set top box user s current activity. For example where the participants in a conversation are both set top box users using set top boxes with multiple tuners the program guide may suggest that one user tune to the television channel being watched by the other user to participate in a shared television viewing experience. In some embodiments the programming guide will automatically handle tuning in to the suggested television channel on a second tuner if the suggestion is accepted.

In various embodiments the set top box user profile provides addressing for the live social streams in which the set top box user is participating. This allows different set top box users to participate in separate conversations from different set top boxes assigned to one subscriber. In some embodiments the set top box user profile is linked to the identifier of the set top box where the set top box user s profile is active. In other embodiments an identifier associated with the set top box user is embedded into the live social streams in which the set top box user is participating and the social streaming application only decodes live social streams containing an identifier matching the active user profile.

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set. As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the set top box . As illustrated in the set top box is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a smart phone a personal computer e.g. a laptop or desktop a tablet slate computer etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the set top box via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module . The set top box also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the set top box and the server side head end system described below.

The set top box also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the set top box in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the set top box for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side set top box . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side set top box may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The set top box may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The set top box may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the set top box and for distribution to the television set. As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into channels which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range is generally at a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side set top box . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side set top boxes for presentation to customers via televisions. As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example content metadata a third party content provider service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded content metadata the middleware layer may be utilized to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the set top box . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data.

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box . According to embodiments client application may include the social streaming application described herein.

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

Referring still to web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services. According to embodiments web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services. According to embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the example of the computing device includes a processing system memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules .

The memory includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data and or computer executable instructions. According to one embodiment the social streaming application may be stored locally on computing device . Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor cause the social streaming application to allow a set top box user to participate in audio video and or audio conversations with friends on supported social streaming services as described above with reference to .

In various embodiments the memory is implemented in various ways. For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data.

According to embodiments the term computer readable media includes communication media and computer readable storage media. Communication media include information delivery media. Computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism may be embodied on a communications medium. The term modulated data signal describes a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage medium may also refer to devices or articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more Intel Core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface card . In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface card the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users for example the social streaming application . The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs.

Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Data input to the device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc. According to one embodiment the social streaming application may be stored locally on mobile computing device .

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS system e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be utilized to communicate with a wireless or a WI FI positioning system to determine the location of a device .

Although described herein in combination with mobile computing device in alternative embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to flowcharts and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to the Figures. For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The description and illustration of one or more embodiments provided in this application are not intended to limit or restrict the scope of the invention as claimed in any way. The embodiments examples and details provided in this application are considered sufficient to convey possession and enable others to make and use the best mode of claimed invention. The claimed invention should not be construed as being limited to any embodiment example or detail provided in this application. Regardless of whether shown and described in combination or separately the various features both structural and methodological are intended to be selectively included or omitted to produce an embodiment with a particular set of features. Having been provided with the description and illustration of the present application one skilled in the art may envision variations modifications and alternate embodiments falling within the spirit of the broader aspects of the general inventive concept embodied in this application that do not depart from the broader scope of the claimed invention.

