---

title: Portable prescription payment device management platform apparautses, methods and systems
abstract: The PORTABLE PRESCRIPTION PAYMENT DEVICE MANAGEMENT PLATFORM APPARATUSES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS (“PPD”) provides a portable coupon payment device includes a substrate having surface with an image rendering thereon that corresponds to a free sample. The portable coupon payment device also has memory, in contact with the substrate, having data encoded therein including (i) an identifier for the free sample, (ii) a quantity for the free sample; (iii) a sponsor company account for a selling merchant to charge the cost of the free sample for payment to a selling merchant account to reimburse the selling merchant for the free sample; (iv) an image corresponding to the free sample; and (v) an identifier for a coupon provider donating the free sample to a consumer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08939356&OS=08939356&RS=08939356
owner: Visa International Service Association
number: 08939356
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130329
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 365 to co pending U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 573 688 filed Oct. 5 2009 titled Portable Prescription Transaction Payment Device and co pending U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 545 372 filed Aug. 21 2009 entitled Free Sample Coupon Card. 

Application Ser. No. 12 545 372 is a continuation in part of each of the following utility applications i U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 480 268 filed on Jun. 8 2009 by Karen Cervenka titled Coupon Card Generation Web Service ii U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 480 346 filed on Jun. 8 2009 by Karen Cervenka titled Dual Range Cellular Telephone Coupon Card Generation iii U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 480 444 filed on Jun. 8 2009 by Karen Cervenka titled Coupon Card Kiosk iv U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 480 529 filed on Jun. 8 2009 by Karen Cervenka titled Coupon Card Point Of Service Terminal Processing and v U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 480 551 filed on Jun. 8 2009 by Karen Cervenka titled Transaction Handler Merchant Reimbursement For Consumer Transaction Use Of Sponsor Discount Coupon Card. Each of the foregoing utility applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The entire contents of the aforementioned applications are all expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The following applications are all expressly incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 573 817 titled Portable Consumer Transaction Payment Device Bearing Sponsored Free Sample U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 573 833 titled Portable Consumer Transaction Payment Device Bearing Sample Prescription U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 573 838 titled Free Sample Account Transaction Payment Card Dispensing Kiosk U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 573 846 titled Prescription Sample Transaction Payment Card all of the four filed on Oct. 5 2009 and PCT international application serial no. PCT US2010 051355 titled Sample Bearing Portable Transaction Payment Device filed Oct. 4 2010.

This patent for letters patent disclosure document describes inventive aspects that include various novel innovations hereinafter disclosure and contains material that is subject to copyright mask work and or other intellectual property protection. The respective owners of such intellectual property have no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the disclosure by anyone as it appears in published Patent Office file records but otherwise reserve all rights.

The present innovations generally address apparatuses methods and systems for restricted product supply management and more particularly include PORTABLE PRESCRIPTION PAYMENT DEVICE MANAGEMENT PLATFORM APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS PPD .

Consumer transactions require a customer to select a product from a store shelf or website and then to check the out at a checkout counter or webpage. Product information is selected from a webpage catalog or entered into a point of sale terminal or the information is entered automatically by scanning an item barcode with an integrated barcode scanner at the point of sale terminal. The customer is usually provided with a number of payment options such as cash check credit card or debit card. Once payment is made and approved the point of sale terminal memorializes the transaction in the merchant s computer system and a receipt is generated indicating the satisfactory consummation of the transaction.

The leading number of each reference number within the drawings indicates the figure in which that reference number is introduced and or detailed. As such a detailed discussion of reference number would be found and or introduced in . Reference number is introduced in etc.

PORTABLE PRESCRIPTION PAYMENT DEVICE MANAGEMENT PLATFORM PPD provides a platform for the distribution of samples and more particularly with the distribution of pharmaceutical samples and most particularly to a sample transaction payment card that can be exchanged by a patient at a pharmacy dispensing the sample of the prescribed medical supply to the patient the sample transaction payment card being associated with an account of a third party who is financially response for the cost of the prescribed medical supply sample.

For example when a patient sees a healthcare provider for an ailment often the patient is provided samples of pharmaceutical products to try. This may be done when the healthcare provider is unsure which medication will alleviate the patient s symptoms or illness or when a prescription is very expensive. However this form of distribution can be dangerous. The healthcare provider may accidentally provide the wrong sample to the patient might not keep accurate records of what samples were given or may not be aware of possible interactions with medications the patient has been prescribed by other providers.

Additionally the distribution of sample pharmaceutical products by healthcare providers is costly. Pharmaceutical companies must send the sample drugs to representatives who are then paid to distribute the samples to local healthcare providers. These samples must be individually packaged often with expensive safety features and elaborate advertisements. Further the pharmaceutical companies must cover the cost of the samples themselves regardless of whether the healthcare provider ever actually distributes the samples. All of this adds to the soaring prices of medications.

Thus there is a need for a system that allows healthcare providers to provide patients with access to sample medications within a more controlled environment such as a pharmacy. Further there is a need to reduce medication and medical supply costs by removing the expense of representatives and individual sample packaging.

In one implementation a portable prescription sample transaction payment device is provided with memory embedded in a substrate and having information stored in the memory. The substrate can have a surface with an image of a representation of the information in the memory. The image can be read by being scanned by a scanner at a Point of Service terminal. The information includes an identifier quantity and dosage for each of a plurality of prescription medical supply samples prescribed by a prescribing medical practitioner to a patient. The information can also include one or more non sample prescription medical supplies prescribed by a corresponding prescribing medical practitioner to the patient. The information in the memory can also include an image of each prescription for the patient that was prescribed by the corresponding prescribing medical practitioner. For each prescription medical supply sample a pharmaceutical company account is included in the information in the memory. The pharmaceutical company account can be used for a dispensing pharmacist to charge the cost of the prescription medical supply sample for payment to a dispensing pharmacist account to reimburse the dispensing pharmacist for the prescription medical supply sample. Also included in the information in the memory is an identifier to correlate which prescription for the patient was prescribed by which prescribing medical practitioner. A device or mechanism is provided by which the information in the memory can be accessed.

In one implementation a method includes receiving in a transmission from a network information about a free sample in response to a request. The information includes an advertising account for a merchant to charge the cost of the free sample to and an identifier and quantity of the free sample. The information is written to the memory of a portable consumer transaction payment device where also encoded in the memory is a consumer account for the consumer to engage in transactions on the account with merchants in a payment processing network. A transaction for the free sample is submitted by the merchant to the merchant s acquirer for processing by a transaction handler who requests payment for the transaction from the advertising account and the issuer of the advertising account forwards the payment for the free sample to the acquirer to reimburse the merchant. Other transactions which are not for the free sample are submitted by each merchant to an acquirer for processing by a transaction handler who requests payment for the transaction from the account borne on the portable consumer transaction payment device and the issuer of the account forwards the payment to the acquirer to reimburse the merchant.

In another implementation a method includes browsing to an Internet website in communication with a web service having a database of information that includes free samples and sending a request to the web service including a selection of one free sample. Information about the free sample is then received in a transmission from the website. The information includes an advertising account for a merchant to charge the cost of the free sample for payment to the merchants account to reimburse the merchant for the free sample a graphic image for rendering at a Point Of Service terminal POS and an identifier and quantity of the free sample. The received information is written to the memory of a portable consumer transaction payment device where also encoded in the memory is a consumer account for the consumer to engage in transactions on the account with merchants in a payment processing network. In a transaction between the consumer and a merchant for the free sample data from the transaction is submitted by the merchant to the merchant s acquirer for processing by a transaction handler who requests payment for the transaction from the advertising account and the issuer of the advertising account forwards the payment for the free sample to the merchant s acquirer to reimburse the merchant for giving the free sample to the consumer. Other transactions which are not for the free sample are submitted by each merchant to an acquirer for processing by a transaction handler who requests payment for the transaction from the account borne on the portable consumer transaction payment device and the issuer of the account forwards the payment to the acquirer to reimburse the merchant.

In yet another implementation an apparatus is presented. The apparatus includes a user interface to receive a request for a free sample and a network communication device to send the request for the free sample and receive an advertising account for a merchant to charge the cost of the free sample to in order to reimburse the merchant for the free sample. The apparatus further includes a card writer to encode data in the memory of the portable consumer transaction payment device where the data includes the advertising account an identifier and quantity of the free sample and a graphic image for rendering at a Point of Sale terminal POS of the merchant. Already encoded in the memory of the portable consumer transaction payment device is a consumer account for the consumer to engage in transactions on the account with merchants in a payment processing network. In a transaction between the consumer and a merchant for the free sample data from the transaction is submitted by the merchant to the merchant s acquirer for processing by a transaction handler who requests payment for the transaction from the advertising account and the issuer of the advertising account forwards the payment for the free sample to the merchant s acquirer to reimburse the merchant for giving the free sample to the consumer. Other transactions which are not for the free sample are submitted by each merchant to an acquirer for processing by a transaction handler who requests payment for the transaction from the account borne on the portable consumer transaction payment device and the issuer of the account forwards the payment to the acquirer to reimburse the merchant.

In one implementation a method includes receiving in response to a request sent over a network information about a prescription medical supply sample that includes an advertising account to which a dispensing pharmacist is to charge the cost of the prescription medical supply sample and an identifier quantity and dosage of the prescription medical supply sample. The received information is then written to the memory of a portable consumer transaction payment device along with an identifier for the patient and identifier for the prescribing medical practitioner. The portable consumer transaction payment device is associated with a patient account to engage in transactions on the patient account with merchants in a payment processing network.

In another implementation a method includes receiving a transmission from a network in response to a request where the transmission has information about a prescription medical supply sample that includes an advertising account for the dispensing pharmacist to charge the cost of the prescription medical supply sample to and an identifier quantity and dosage of the prescription medical supply sample. The method further includes writing to the memory of a portable consumer health services payment device the information received an identifier for the patient an identifier for a medical practitioner prescribing the prescription medical supply sample to the patient and an identifier quantity and dosage of a prescription medical supply other than the prescription medical supply sample being prescribed by the prescribing medical practitioner to the patient. The patient account is regulated for limited use for payments to healthcare providers and is for the dispensing pharmacists to charge the cost of the prescription medical supply.

In yet another implementation an apparatus is presented having a user interface to receive a request for a prescription medical supply sample a network communication device and a card writer to encode the prescription data in the memory of a portable consumer transaction payment device. The network communication device further is capable of sending the request for a prescription medical supply sample and receiving an advertising account for a dispensing pharmacist to charge the cost of the prescription medical supply sample to. The prescription data includes the advertising account and identifier for a patient and an identifier for a prescribing medical practitioner. The prescription data further includes an identifier a quantity and a dosage of the prescription medical supply sample and a prescription medical supply other than the prescription medical supply sample which the prescribing medical practitioner is prescribing to the patient. The prescription data also includes an image of a prescription for the patient from the prescribing medical practitioner. Included in the memory of the portable consumer transaction payment device is a consumer account for a consumer to engage in transactions on the consumer account with merchants in a payment processing network where the dispensing pharmacist is one such merchant in the payment processing network and the charging of the cost of the prescription medical supply sample to the advertising account for the payment to the dispensing pharmacist account is another said transaction in the payment processing network. Each transaction in the payment processing network is submitted by the merchant to an acquirer for processing by a transaction handler who requests an issuer of a corresponding account upon which the transaction was conducted to obtain payment for the transaction from the corresponding account and wherein the issuer of the corresponding account forwards the payment for the transaction to the transaction handler who forwards the payment for the transaction to the acquirer to reimburse the merchant for the transaction.

In one implementation a method of providing a free sample account transaction payment card to a user of a kiosk is provided. The method includes receiving a selection of a free sample from a database having multiple selectable free samples. Each free sample is associated with a free sample account issued to a sponsor who is financially responsible for the cost of providing the free sample to a customer where the free sample account is acceptable by a merchant for payment for a free sample given to a customer and the cost of the free sample is debited from the free sample account and credited to the merchant s account. The method further includes retrieving from the database to memory in the kiosk a rendering image corresponding to the rendering capability of the kiosk and the free sample information. The free sample information includes the free sample account a quantifier for the free sample and a good or service. The free sample information is then written from the memory in the kiosk to a memory location in a free sample account transaction payment card stored within the kiosk and a hard copy of the rendering image is rendered on a surface of the free sample account transaction payment card.

In another implementation a kiosk is presented. The kiosk includes a means for displaying selectable free samples each of which are associated with a free sample account issued by an issuer to a sponsor who is financially responsible for the cost of providing the free sample to the consumer. The free sample account is acceptable by a merchant for payment of a free sample tendered to a consumer and the cost of distributing the free sample is debited from the free sample account and credited to the merchant s account. The kiosk also includes a means for receiving a selection of free samples from the selectable free samples and a means for retrieving from the database to the memory of the kiosk a rendering image corresponding to the rendering capabilities of the kiosk and the free sample information including the free sample account a quantifier for the free sample and a good or service. The kiosk further includes a means for writing using a card writing device the free sample information from the memory of the kiosk to the memory of a free sample account transaction payment card and a means for rendering a hard copy of the rendering image on a surface of the free sample account transaction payment card.

In yet another implementation a kiosk is presented. The kiosk has a user interface having a display device and an input device memory and a computing apparatus that executes an internet browser to access a web site associated with a server serving a web page for displaying multiple free samples. Each free sample is associated with a free sample account issued by an issuer to a sponsor who is financially responsible for the cost of providing the free sample to a consumer where the free sample account is acceptable by a merchant for payment in a transaction in which the merchant tenders the free sample to the consumer the cost of the free sample is to be debited from the free sample account and credited to a merchant account to reimburse the merchant for tendering the free sample. The computing apparatus further executes the internet browser to transmit to the server a selection of a free sample and to receive a rendering image and the free sample information including an identifier for the free sample account a quantifier for the free sample and a good or service. The kiosk further includes a card writing device to write the sample information to memory in a free sample account transaction payment card and render a hard copy of the rendering image on the surface of the free sample account transaction payment card.

In another implementation a method includes receiving using an input device of a user interface an identifier quantity and dosage of a free prescription medical supply sample and an identifier for a patient. A transmission is sent including the identifier for the free prescription medical supply sample and in response a transmission is received including the free prescription medical supply sample information. The information includes a pharmaceutical company account to which for the dispensing pharmacist is to charge the cost of the free sample the identifier quantity and dosage of the free sample and an image corresponding to the free prescription medical supply sample. The method further includes receiving a prescription medical supply sample transaction payment card and writing to its memory the free prescription medical supply sample information an identifier for the patient and an identifier for the prescribing medical practitioner. The image corresponding to the free prescription medical supply sample is rendered on the surface of the prescription medical supply sample transaction payment card.

In another implementation a method includes browsing using an input device of a user interface to an Internet website in communication with a web service having a database of information that includes different free pharmaceutical samples and receiving an identifier quantity and dosage of a selected free prescription medical supply sample and a prescription for a prescription medical supply sample prescribed by a medical practitioner to a patent. A transmission is then sent to the web service which includes an identifier for the selected free prescription medical supply sample. In response a transmission is received which includes free prescription medical supply sample information including a pharmaceutical company account for the dispensing pharmacist to charge the cost of the free prescription medical supply sample and an image corresponding to the selected free prescription medical supply sample. A free prescription medical supply sample is then received and written to its memory is the free prescription medical supply sample information an identifier for the patient an identifier for the prescribing medical practitioner and an image of the prescription. The image corresponding to the prescription medical supply sample is then rendered on the surface of the prescription medical supply sample transaction payment card. Additionally the pharmaceutical company account is a type of consumer account issued by an issuer to a pharmaceutical company the prescription medical supply sample transaction payment card is a type of portable consumer device that is associated with a consumer account the payment processing network includes multiple merchants and consumers conducting transactions and each transaction involves the merchant submitting the transaction to an acquirer for processing by a transaction handler.

In yet another implementation an apparatus is presented comprising a means for receiving an identifier quantity and dosage of a free prescription medical supply sample an identifier for a prescribing medical practitioner and an identifier for a patient. The apparatus further comprises a first communication means for sending a transmission out to a network including the identifier for the free prescription medical supply sample and a second communication means for receiving a transmission in response which includes free prescription medical supply sample information. The information includes a pharmaceutical company account for a dispensing pharmacist to charge the cost of the free prescription medical supply sample to and an image corresponding to the free prescription medical supply sample. The apparatus further comprises a means for writing to the memory of a prescription medical supply sample transaction payment card the identifier quantity and dosage of the free prescription medical supply sample the identifier for a prescribing medical practitioner an identifier for the patient and the pharmaceutical company account. Finally the apparatus comprises a means for printing the image corresponding to the free prescription medical supply sample on the surface of the prescription medical supply sample transaction payment card.

The present discussion considers a sample of a prescription medical supply that can be prescribed to a patient by a healthcare provider s use of a portable prescription transaction payment device such as may have the form factor of a transaction payment card. Such a sample transaction payment card can be exchanged by the patient with a pharmacist who will dispense the sample of the prescription medical supply to the patient. In the present context an account for the payment of a sample attributable to an electronic voucher is issued by an issuer to a third party sponsor of the electronic voucher and credited with funds submitted by the third party. The funds on deposit in the account are for reimbursement of the distribution of the sample by the dispensing pharmacist upon the presentation by the patient of the sample transaction payment card having the electronic voucher stored thereon. The sample transaction payment card is provided to the patient by a prescribing healthcare provider and has information stored therein for at least one electronic voucher. In another implementation the PPD may apply the portable consumer transaction payment device to the consumer as i a free sample card for the consumer to use to obtain a free sample from a merchant without paying for the free sample and ii a typical card i.e. credit card debit card or prepaid card etc. to use for other commercial transactions for which the consumer must pay the merchant from funds associated with an account issued to the consumer that corresponds to the card. Accordingly the portable consumer transaction payment device will also be referred to herein as a free sample card .

In certain implementations the sponsor of the electronic voucher is the manufacturer of the sample. In certain implementations the merchant who provides data as input into the memory or storage of the sample card is a distributor of the sample. In certain implementations the merchant provider is a wholesaler of the sample. In certain implementations the merchant provider and the third party sponsor are the same entity. In certain implementations the merchant provider is a retailer of different goods or services than the retail merchant.

In another implementation The present discussion considers a coupon card and its use in a payment processing system that processes electronic coupons stored on the coupon card. In the present context an account for the payment of future discounts on goods and services attributable to the use of electronic coupons is issued by the issuer to a third party and credited with funds submitted by the third party. The funds are for reimbursement of discounts on the sale of goods and services given by a merchant upon the presentation of a coupon card having at least one of the electronic coupons stored thereon.

In one implementation a portable coupon payment device is presented. The portable coupon payment device includes a substrate having surface with an image rendering thereon that corresponds to a free sample. The portable coupon payment device also has memory in contact with the substrate having data encoded therein including i an identifier for the free sample ii a quantity for the free sample iii a sponsor company account for a selling merchant to charge the cost of the free sample for payment to a selling merchant account to reimburse the selling merchant for the free sample iv an image corresponding to the free sample and v an identifier for a coupon provider donating the free sample to a consumer.

In another implementation a portable coupon transaction payment device is presented. The portable coupon transaction payment device has memory embedded in a substrate. Stored in the memory are an identifier and a quantity for each of a plurality of a free sample donated by a coupon provider to a consumer and a non sample item each being offered by a corresponding coupon provider to the consumer. Also stored for each free sample is a sponsor company account for a selling merchant to charge the cost of the free sample for payment to a selling merchant account to reimburse the selling merchant for the free sample. Also stored is an identifier for the consumer. Also stored is an identifier for each coupon provider. Also stored is an identifier for a consumer account issued by an issuer to the consumer. Also stored is an identifier to correlate which donation for the consumer was donated by which coupon provider. The sponsor company account and the consumer account are each an account in a payment processing network by which a consumer can engage in a plurality of transactions on the account with a plurality of merchants in the payment processing network. The payment processing network includes a plurality of merchants and consumers engaging in the plurality of transactions on a plurality of respective accounts that respective issuers issue to the consumers. Each transaction involves the merchant submitting the transaction to an acquirer for processing by a transaction handler who requests the issuer to obtain payment for the transaction from the account wherein the issuer forwards the payment to the transaction handler who forwards the payment to the acquirer to reimburse the merchant for the transaction. The portable coupon transaction payment device also includes means for providing access to the information in the memory.

In yet another implementation a portable coupon transaction payment device is presented. The portable coupon transaction payment device has memory embedded in a substrate. The memory has information stored therein. The substrate has an image on a surface thereof that includes a representation of at least a portion of the information in the memory for being read by the image being scanned by a scanner at a Point of Service terminal. The stored information includes i an identifier and a quantity for each of a plurality of a free sample donated by a coupon provider to a consumer and a non sample item offered by a corresponding coupon provider to the consumer ii an image having multiple portion of each donation for the consumer that was donated by the corresponding coupon provider wherein the portions of the image correspond to the identifier for the consumer the identifier for the coupon provider the identifier and the quantity for the free sample and the identifier and the quantity for the non sample item iii for each free sample a sponsor company account for a selling merchant to charge the cost of the free sample for payment to a selling merchant account to reimburse the selling merchant for the free sample and iv an identifier to correlate which donation for the consumer was donated by which coupon provider. The sponsor company account and the consumer account are each an account in a payment processing network by which a consumer can engage in a plurality of transactions on the account with a plurality of merchants in the payment processing network. The payment processing network includes a plurality of merchants and consumers engaging in the plurality of transactions on a plurality of respective accounts that respective issuers issue to the consumers. Each transaction involves the merchant submitting the transaction to an acquirer for processing by a transaction handler who requests the issuer to obtain payment for the transaction from the account wherein the issuer forwards the payment to the transaction handler who forwards the payment to the acquirer to reimburse the merchant for the transaction. The portable coupon transaction payment device also has means for providing access to the information in the memory.

In alternatives to the foregoing implementations the memory can be a non volatile memory of a semiconductor device a magnetic encoded data region of a magnetic stripe or a combination of the foregoing. The substrate can be a portion of a consumer transaction payment card e.g. a smart card having a Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag a transponder device and a microchip a magstripe card or a combination of the foregoing. The portable coupon transaction payment device can include circuitry and corresponding firmware as would be understood by those of skill in the relevant arts for the memory to receive the information by a wireless communication a hardwired communication or a magnetic encoded communication for track data received by modifying the magnetism of magnetic particles on a band of magnetic material on the portable coupon payment device. For each image of each donation the identifier for the coupon provider can be a handwritten signature of the coupon provider. Alternatively for each image of each free sample the free sample in the image can be hand written by the coupon provider.

In certain implementations the third party sponsor merchant provider and or retail merchant are related companies. In such implementations the retail merchant and or merchant provider may be subsidiaries of the third party sponsor. In certain implementations the third party sponsor of the electronic voucher is the manufacturer of the sample. In certain implementations the third party sponsor is the distributor of the sample. In certain implementations the third party sponsor is the wholesaler of the sample. Throughout the specification the entity healthcare provider may be a merchant provider retail merchant and or the like.

Turning now to an exemplary block diagram is presented of an environment of a healthcare provider using a card processor system to associate a sample transaction payment card with an electronic voucher where the sample transaction payment card may be used by the patient for a sample medical supply prescribed by the healthcare provider to be dispensed to the patient by a pharmacist. Although the implementation is discussed in regards to a substantially planar laminated card one skilled in the art will recognize that other forms of transaction payment tokens could be used.

Although the present application is primarily concerned with prescription medication one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the samples may be of prescription medical supplies such as by way of example and not limitation syringes or home medical supplies covered by health insurance. Furthermore the samples may be of over the counter OTC medications or medical supplies such as by way of example and not limitation aspirin antiseptics bandages creams or salves.

Further one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that in the present discussion healthcare provider is intended to include doctors nurse practitioners veterinarians dentists psychiatrists veterinarians and any other prescriber. Additionally wherein the sample is for an OTC medication or medical supply healthcare provider may include chiropractors homeopathic therapists acupuncturists physical therapists or any other provider of health related services. Also it will be understood that a patient of a healthcare provider could act through an agent to perform acts described herein.

In another implementation sample card being a portable consumer transaction payment device may be a credit card debit card prepaid card loyalty card or other such device associated with an account that was issued by an issuer to a consumer. Thus the consumer may use sample card to both receive a sample and to pay for an item or service. In certain implementations the account of the consumer associated with sample card is a regulated account that s use is limited to payments to certain kinds of merchants dealing in certain limited commodities where such merchants may be represented by one or more Merchant Commodity Codes i.e. petroleum products and services travel and entertainment healthcare etc. In certain implementations the consumer account is a revolving credit account a debit account or a prepaid account. In certain implementations the consumer account is a Flexible Savings Account FSA a Health Savings Account HSA or a Health Reimbursement Account HRA .

In certain implementations a card processor system is connected to a database . The card processor system for instance can create from a blank transaction payment card a prescription medical supply sample transaction payment card that is encoded with information to facilitate a transaction with a dispensing pharmacist for a patient to receive the sample at substantially no cost. In certain implementations database is a database of electronic vouchers for free samples which healthcare provider may distribute to patents. In one implementation a third party offering and willing to pay for the distribution of at least one sample using an electronic voucher has access to the database and may send to and receive from the database information such as the number of electronic vouchers used the number of electronic vouchers remaining alternatives to a given sample medications commonly prescribed with a given sample and the availability of such medications or any other relevant information.

In certain implementations database is connected to a network accessible by a computer used by healthcare provider . In such implementations the network may be a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN Personal Area Network PAN Virtual Private Network VPN Storage Area Network WAN Global Area Network GAN Internetwork or combination thereof. In such implementations the computer may connect to the network using wireless communications optical fiber Ethernet ITU T G.hn or similar technology or a combination thereof. In such implementations the computer may include a network card network adapter or network interface controller NIC . In other implementations the computer may include other types of hardware capable of connecting to and communicating with a network.

In certain implementations database is provided by a web service in communication with a website. In such implementations healthcare provider browses using a web browser of a web enabled computer to the website to select an electronic voucher from database .

In certain implementations database also includes information relating to each electronic voucher stored therein. In such implementations database may include an identifier for the free sample and an account identifier of the third party sponsor of the electronic voucher. In certain implementations the account of the third party sponsor is a regulated account that s use is limited to payments to healthcare providers. In certain implementations the third party account is a revolving credit account a debit account or a prepaid account. In certain implementations the third party account is a Flexible Savings Account FSA a Health Savings Account HAS or a Health Reimbursement Account HRA .

In certain implementations database includes information also regarding a merchant. In such an implementation the electronic voucher may only be valid for use with a particular compounding pharmacy or drug store. In other implementations the information includes the prescription date or an expiration date after which the electronic voucher is no longer valid. In yet other implementations the information includes the number of samples eligible for distribution using the electronic voucher. By way of example and not limitation the electronic voucher may be valid for three 3 sample sized tubes of a prescription topical cream. In other implementations the database includes information regarding an expiration date after which the electronic voucher is no longer valid.

By way of another example and not limitation the electronic voucher may be valid for three 3 sample sized cans for house paint or a free decal for an automobile body part or a free massage at a spa or a free tennis lesson or a free appraisal of a jewelry or work of art or for both a free car wash and a free air freshener. In certain implementations database includes information regarding a retail merchant where the electronic voucher is valid only for use with that particular retail merchant.

In certain implementations database includes advertisements and or educational or safety information capable of being printed by a merchant Point Of Service terminal POS i.e. a cash register when the sample transaction payment card bearing the electronic voucher is presented to a pharmacist. In other implementations the advertisements may be capable of being rendered as printed out on a hard copy or rendered on a monitor at a merchant. In certain implementations a specific advertisement is selected by healthcare provider to be associated with the sample transaction payment card. In certain implementations the advertisements are pre associated with the electronic vouchers. In certain implementations the advertisement may be an image. In certain implementations the advertisement may be for a type of good or service which may or may not be related to the free prescription sample. In certain implementations the advertisement may be for the pharmacist providing the free sample or for the third party sponsor. In certain implementations the advertisement is of a different good or service provided by healthcare provider the pharmacist or by the third party sponsor. In certain implementations the advertisement is for a merchant or a good or service provided by a merchant whose retail location is near healthcare provider or the pharmacist.

In some implementations database includes information regarding a coupon for a free or discounted item. The coupon may be issued by the sponsor of the electronic voucher. In other implementations healthcare provider may select a coupon from multiple coupons available in database . In yet other implementations database may automatically associate a coupon with sample transaction payment card . The association may be based upon the medications being prescribed the diagnosis of the patient or any other criteria. The coupon may be for discounts on prescription medication or over the counter items such as for example cough syrups bandages or herbal teas. In one implementation the coupon expires with the use of the consumer payment device to obtain the sample associated with the electronic voucher the discount only being redeemable at the time medication is dispensed. In other implementations the coupon may be redeemable at a later time.

In certain implementations the identifier of the free sample corresponds to a type of good or service. In certain implementations the identifier is an image capable of being displayed or printed by a merchant POS. In certain implementations the identifier of the free sample is a Stock Keeping Unit SKU . In certain implementations the identifier of the free sample is a Universal Product Code UPC . In certain implementations the identifier is of a trademark associated with the product being distributed as a sample the trade name of the wholesaler of the product or the trade name of the manufacturer of the product. In certain implementations the identifier is for an active ingredient of the product being distributed as a free sample. In certain implementations the identifier is a National Drug Code NDC .

The card processor system in some implementations may include a user interface capable of presenting healthcare provider with a selection of electronic vouchers available for distribution. The user interface may be a touch screen a digital electronic display with an input device a projector with an input device a monitor with an input device any combination of the foregoing or any other device for the presentation of information.

Healthcare provider may select an electronic voucher using input device . Input device may be a key pad a touch screen a pointing device an audio input device a video input device any combination of the foregoing or other hardware capable of receiving and transforming data for use by the device.

Card read write device may then be used to associate the selected electronic vouchers with sample transaction payment card . In certain implementations prior to association sample transaction payment card is a blank card. In certain implementations sample transaction payment card is provided by the third party sponsor of the electronic voucher. In other implementations sample transaction payment card is provided by healthcare provider . In yet other implementations sample transaction payment card is provided by any other entity with an interest in the distribution of samples via electronic vouchers. Additionally in certain implementations sample transaction payment card is a one time use card being deactivated after it is redeemed for a sample from a merchant. In other implementations sample transaction payment card is capable of being used multiple times for multiple samples provided at a single or multiple merchant locations. In yet other implementations sample transaction payment card is a portable consumer device associated with a financial account that belongs to the patient card holder and may be capable of being used to conduct transactions for goods or services with various merchants.

Card read write device stores information relating to the electronic voucher selected by healthcare provider on sample transaction payment card including the account identifier associated with an account of the third party sponsor of the electronic voucher.

In certain implementations the electronic voucher may be for a sample made by a particular manufacturer. In such an implementation the information may further include an identifier for the manufacturer. In certain implementations the electronic voucher may be for a particular type of sample made by any manufacturer. In such an implementation the information may further include an identifier for an acceptable generic alternative to the name brand sample.

In certain implementations the electronic voucher may be for a sample of an OTC medication or medical supply such as by way of example and not limitation aspirin bandages salves or creams. In such an implementation the information may further include a type of sample or category thereof for which a sample transaction payment card is valid. By way of example and not limitation the electronic voucher may be valid for a sample of all OTC pain relievers made by a particular manufacturer. Alternatively the electronic voucher may be valid for a specific OTC pain reliever made by the manufacturer.

In certain implementations the information also includes a prescription for a prescription medication. In such implementations an image may be stored on sample transaction payment card which includes the signature of healthcare provider . In certain implementations the image may contain other information required in specific jurisdictions for a pharmacist to dispense a prescription medical supply. Such information by way of example and not limitation may include an image of the written prescription in the handwriting of the prescribing healthcare provider the name of the patient dosing instructions and or the refill amount. In certain implementations the image may be of the free sample.

In such an implementation where a prescription is included the electronic voucher may be for a sample of a medication not usually stocked at the pharmacy in sufficient amounts to completely fulfill a prescription. In other such implementations the electronic voucher may be for a sample of a name brand medication while the prescription may be for the generic equivalent.

In certain implementations card read write device stores additional information on sample transaction payment card . Wherein the electronic voucher is for a sample of a prescription medication card read write device may additionally store by way of example and not limitation identifiers for the prescribing healthcare provider the patient and the prescription medication for which a sample is to be provided.

In certain implementations card read write device is a memory card reader writer. In such an implementation sample transaction payment card is a smart card and the account identifier and any additional information is stored in the memory of an embedded chip. In certain implementations sample transaction payment card is a contact smart card having a contact area that when inserted into card read write device makes contact with electrical connectors capable of writing the information to memory. In certain implementations sample transaction payment card is a contactless smart card in which the chip communicates with card read write device through radio frequency identification RFID induction technology.

In certain implementations card read write device is a magnetic card reader. In such an implementation sample transaction payment card has a magnetic data stripe. The account identifier and any additional information is stored on sample transaction payment card when the magnetic data stripe is placed in physical contact with a read write head of card read write device . In certain implementations sample transaction payment card includes both an embedded chip and a magnetic stripe.

In one implementation sample transaction payment card may also include an image printed on a surface. Image may be preprinted on sample transaction payment card by the pharmaceutical company and may serve as an advertisement. Alternatively image may be printed by the card processor and may relate to the medication prescribed by healthcare provider or the free sample. Further sample transaction payment card may display a flat or raised account number as well as the prescription name quantity instructions patient name prescribing healthcare provider s name and any other relevant information.

Wherein the card processor system is capable of printing image on sample transaction payment card the device may include a card printer such as for example the Direct to Card DTC 450 or High Definition Printing HDP 5000 commercially available from Fargo Electronics Inc. a corporation located in Eden Prairie Minn.

In certain implementations association of the electronic voucher with sample transaction payment card further involves using the card processor system to provide an identifier of a sponsor account that will cover the cost of the sample and that is to be associated with sample transaction payment card . The card processor system also provides information regarding the electronic voucher selected by healthcare provider for storage on sample transaction payment card to be provided to a transaction handler such as one or more of the transaction handler th wherein the account identifier and the information is stored in a database. In such an implementation the database may be used to verify the authenticity of an electronic voucher stored on a consumer payment device presented at a merchant s location for redemption of a sample.

In the illustrated implementation of consumer may associate a coupon card with at least one electronic coupon using several methods. In one implementation consumer uses a web enabled computer system to connect to the World Wide Web the Internet or other network and browse to a website having electronic coupons available for downloading as facilitated by a web service. In such an implementation consumer uses the browser to select at least one of the electronic coupons offered. Information relating to that electronic coupon is then downloaded to computer system including an account identifier for the party offering and willing to pay for the discount provide by the electronic coupon.

In certain implementations the information further includes the type of product or service or category thereof for which the electronic coupon is valid. By way of example and not limitation the electronic coupon may be valid for all cleaning products made by a particular manufacturer. Alternatively the electronic coupon may be valid for a specific dish soap made by the manufacturer.

In other implementations the information also includes a merchant or manufacturer with which the electronic coupon is valid. In such an implementation the electronic coupon may only be valid for use with a particular merchant or only for the purchase of a particular manufacturer s product. In other implementations the information includes an expiration date after which the electronic coupon is no longer valid. In yet other implementations the information includes the number of goods or services eligible for a discount using the electronic coupon. By way of example and not limitation the electronic coupon may be valid for discounts on up to three 3 bottles of a pain reliever. Alternatively the electronic coupon may only be used when ten 10 car washes are purchased at the same time.

In certain implementations the information also includes a bar code identifying the item or type of item for which the electronic coupon is valid. In such an implementation the bar code is rendered on a print out using a printer connected to computer system . The bar code may later be scanned by a scanner of a POS terminal to identify the item being purchased that is eligible for a discount using the electronic coupon.

Print out includes a scannable copy of the bar code such that it may be later scanned by a scanner at a POS terminal to identify the type of item eligible for a discount using the electronic coupon. Print out also serves as a reminder to consumer of which electronic coupons are stored on coupon card .

In certain implementations print out includes advertisements. In certain implementations print out additionally includes information regarding soon to be available electronic coupons.

Once the information relating to the selected electronic coupon is downloaded to computer system the account identifier is written to a coupon card using card read write device . In certain implementations card read write device is attached as a peripheral to computer system . In certain implementations card read write device is a memory card reader. In such an implementation coupon card is a smart card and the account identifier is stored in the memory of an embedded chip. In certain implementations coupon card is a contact smart card having a contact area that when inserted into card read write device makes contact with electrical connectors capable of writing the information to memory. In certain implementations coupon card is a contactless smart card in which the chip communicates with card read write device through radio frequency identification RFID induction technology.

In certain implementations card read write device is a magnetic card reader. In such an implementation coupon card has a magnetic data stripe. The account identifier is stored on coupon card when the magnetic data stripe is placed in physical contact with a read write head of card read write device .

In certain implementations coupon card includes both an embedded chip and a magnetic stripe. In other implementations coupon card is also a portable consumer device such as a credit card debit card prepaid card loyalty card or other such device associated with an account of consumer . In such implementations consumer may use coupon card to both receive a discount and pay for the item.

In the illustrated implementation of consumer may also associate coupon card with at least one electronic coupon using a dual range i.e. long range wireless communications and short range wireless communications web enabled cellular telephone where coupon card is a smart card. In such implementations consumer uses the cellular telephony functionality of cellular telephone to connect to the Internet or World Wide Web and browse to a website having electronic coupons provided by a web service. Upon selecting an electronic coupon the associated information is downloaded to cellular telephone including the account identifier for the third party sponsoring the electronic coupon.

In such implementations where the information downloaded also includes a bar code the bar code is capable of being rendered on the display of cellular telephone . The bar code can later be scanned by a scanner at a POS terminal to identify the type of item eligible for a discount using the electronic coupon.

Once the information relating to the selected electronic coupon is downloaded to cellular telephone the account identifier associated with the sponsor of the electronic coupon is written to coupon card using a moblet stored on cellular telephone . The moblet is executed to provide functionality to short range wireless communication that writes to the memory of coupon card such as via a near field communication NFC card read write application capable of using wireless NFC to read and write data to the memory of coupon card .

In the illustrated implementation of consumer may also associate a coupon card with at least one electronic coupon using a kiosk . Kiosk is in communication with a database not shown preferably kept in one or more device storage devices capable of storing and relating information regarding the available electronic coupons. In one implementation a third party offering at least one electronic coupon has access to the database and may send to and receive from the database information such as the number of electronic coupons used the number of electronic coupons remaining or any other relevant information.

When using kiosk consumer is presented with a user interface displaying a plurality of electronic coupons and uses an input device to make a selection. In one implementation consumer then receives from kiosk a coupon card . In such an implementation kiosk includes a stack of blank coupon cards which may be issued to consumer . In other implementations consumer obtains coupon card and provides it to kiosk via a card receiving device to have the selected electronic coupons stored thereon. In such implementations consumer may purchase coupon card from a merchant. In other implementations consumer may receive coupon card from the third party a merchant or any other entity having an interest in providing electronic coupons. In yet other implementations coupon card is also a portable consumer device and is issued by an issuer to consumer i.e. the consumer s credit debit gift or pre paid card .

In using kiosk to associate coupon card with at least one electronic coupon kiosk stores information relating to the electronic coupon selected by consumer on coupon card including the account identifier associated with an account of the electronic coupon sponsor.

In those implementations where the selected electronic coupon is also associated with a bar code identifying the type of item for which the electronic coupon is valid kiosk additionally dispensed to consumer a print out having the bar code printed thereon. The print out may later be scanned by a scanner at a POS terminal as would a typical coupon.

Turning to both a front view A and a rear view B of an exemplary sample transaction payment card are presented. Images may be displayed on both sides of sample transaction payment card with image A on the front view A being either the same as or different from image B on the rear view B. In this illustration the front view A also displays information about the provider of sample transaction payment card .

Non limiting examples of the data encoding area are shown at reference numeral and include a magnetic stripe assembly an antenna and or transceiver and electrical contacts . Magnetic stripe assembly may comprise in the implementation shown as A a reprogrammable magnetic stripe assembly B that accepts data and or commands from a processor and formats and renders that data into a form on a magnetic stripe that is readable by conventional merchant magnetic stripe reading point of sale POS terminals. In this manner the processor may program a particular account for use in a transaction as a function of user input selecting the account. Alternatively the processor may erase the magnetic stripe of assembly rendering the card useless in the event of its loss or theft. In the implementation shown as A magnetic stripe assembly B at least partially slidably moves C into and out of an assembly of sample transaction payment card partial view shown allowing sample transaction payment card to conduct a transaction at a point of sale terminal that includes a magnetic stripe reader.

Continuing with another implementation of the data encoding area is shown as an antenna and or transceiver . Antenna and or transceiver may include commonly used loop inductors such as the one shown A or in those shown in related ISO standards for RF readable smart cards. With such an interface account data may be translated modulated and transmitted in a manner acceptable by an RF contactless merchant POS terminal an 802.11 WiFi or WiMax network or by a cellular or RF communications network. For instance antenna and or transceiver may receive a wireless communication from a card read write device where the wireless communication carries data for a sponsor s electronic voucher account that is to be written in memory to the data encoding area .

Electrical contacts are yet another alternative implementation of the data encoding area shown in . With sample transaction payment card possessing physical contacts such as an array of conductive pads or shapes A sample transaction payment card may be placed in physical contact with merchant POS terminals and electrical contacts may establish connectivity between imbedded integrated circuit and the merchant s financial processing system. The processor may relay account related information to the merchant POS terminal through the contact interface thereby allowing sample transaction payment card to be utilized with the large number of preexisting merchant POS terminals.

Within the exemplary payment processing system depicted in and described below illustrates the general environment wherein a sample transaction payment card such as sample transaction payment card obtained by the environment described in connection with is used by a patient to receive a sample prescription or medical item from a merchant such as a pharmacy n that had been prescribed by a prescribing healthcare provider p to patient . To start at the POS terminal of pharmacy patient presents to Pharmacy sample transaction payment card q . Pharmacy uses a card reader associated with the POS terminal to read the information stored on sample transaction payment card including the account identifier associated with the one or more electronic vouchers being sponsored respectively by one or more sponsors one such sponsor is indicated in as sponsor r . In certain implementations sample transaction payment card is read by swiping sample transaction payment card through the POS terminal to read data magnetically encoded in its magnetic stripe. In other implementations the POS terminal reads sample transaction payment card using a contactless technology such as RFID when patient is near the POS terminal. In yet other implementations to be read sample transaction payment card is inserted into the POS terminal such that external contacts on sample transaction payment card establish connectivity with the POS terminal.

In certain implementations other information is also read from sample transaction payment card such as by way of example and not limitation an expiration date a sample type or patient s name. In such implementations the POS terminal may determine whether the electronic voucher is valid for the sample requested. This may occur by way of example and not limitation by comparing the current date with the expiration data of the electronic voucher.

In certain implementations the POS terminal may be connected to a database storing information regarding prescriptions patient has had filled at pharmacy or any related pharmacy . In such an implementation the database may be used to determine whether patient is taking any other medication that may interacted with the sample to be distributed. Wherein the sample is of a controlled substance included on a schedule such a database may additionally be used to force compliance with regulations promulgated by the United States Drug Enforcement Agency. In such implementations the database may be used to verify that use of the electronic voucher would not allow patient to receive more then the legally allowed limit. By way of example and not limitation where the sample is for a medication listed on Schedule II such as Methadone Oxycodone or Fentanyl patients are limited to a thirty 30 day supply unless they meet a legal exception. Thus the database may be used to determine whether distribution of the sample alone or in combination with other samples or prescriptions would give patient more than a thirty 30 day supply. Further the prescription date may be checked against the date on which patient is requesting the sample to ensure that the sample is being distributed within the legally allowed time frame from the prescription date. Alternatively wherein the medication is restricted by the number of refills which may be distributed within a given time frame such as medications on Schedule III and Schedule IV the data base may be used to determine whether distribution of the sample may be considered a refill exceeding the allowed amount under law during that timeframe.

In certain implementations patient is requested to present identification. In such an implementation the identification may be checked against a patient identifier read from sample transaction payment card in order to verify that patient was the same patient who was given sample transaction payment card from healthcare provider . Alternatively the identification may be used to verify that the individual presenting sample transaction payment card is authorized to receive medication on behalf of patient such as in the case of a parent or spouse of patient .

Upon receipt of sample transaction payment card the transaction is processed similarly to the method to be described in connection with . Pharmacy submits an authorization request to acquirer which includes the account identifier read from sample transaction payment card . In certain implementations where consumer is also making a purchase of a good or a service an account identifier of a financial account issued by an issuer to consumer and associated with portable consumer transaction payment device is also included in the authorization request.

In certain implementations the authorization request is for only some of the samples or amounts described by the electronic voucher associated with the account identifier of sample transaction payment card . In such an implementation pharmacy can send the authorization request only for the types of medications or the amount of medication the pharmacy is capable of distributing at that time. In such a situation patient could then use the card at another pharmacy to receive the rest of the sample associated with the account identifier of the card. In such cases memory of card will be accordingly updated to reflect the progressive partial and complete filling of a prescription dispensed by each respective pharmacist n to patient .

In certain implementations the authorization request may additionally include a different account identifier that is separately supplied by the patient or agent thereof where patient intends to pay for the portion of the transaction with the pharmacist n that is not free and where that portion of the purchase is to be paid for by the patent s use of their personal credit card debit card personal check written on a checking account or other portable consumer transaction payment device.

Where acquirer is not the same entity as the issuer of the account associated with the account identifier read from sample transaction payment card acquirer forwards the transaction information to a transaction handler who in turn forwards it to issuer to verify that the account associated with electronic voucher sponsor contains sufficient funds to reimburse pharmacy for the sample.

Upon receipt of a reply from issuer transaction handler forwards an authorization response to acquirer who forwards it to pharmacy . Where the authorization response contains an approval of the use of the electronic voucher patient is given the associated sample free of charge.

In certain implementations the authorization response is only a partial response. In such implementations the authorization request may have included types of samples or amounts not associated with the account identifier of sample transaction payment card .

In certain implementations pharmacy invalidates or deletes the electronic voucher s stored on sample transaction payment card once the sample has been provided to patient . In certain implementations sample transaction payment card may be a one time use card. In such an implementation pharmacy may forgo returning sample transaction payment card to patient . In certain implementations sample transaction payment card is deactivated only after all of the samples described in the sample information have been redeemed by patient . In such an implementation patient may fill only part of the sample at any given time or may receive portions of the samples from different pharmacies. In another implementation the PPD may have the electronic voucher stored on portable consumer transaction payment device . Alternatively in such implementations the authorization request may have included items patient wishes to purchase using a financial account belonging to patient and also associated with portable consumer transaction payment device e.g. the patient s personal credit card account number .

In other implementations sample transaction payment card may be a multiple use card and is therefore not deactivated. In such an implementation sample transaction payment card may be used to store subsequent electronic vouchers and therefore is returned to patient . Alternatively sample transaction payment card may also be a credit card debit card or other form of a portable consumer device that can be used to conduct transactions for goods or services with merchants.

In certain implementations approval of the transaction may be more involved. In such implementations the authorization request includes additional information by way of example and not limitation the sample medication to be distributed the prescribing healthcare provider and or the sponsor of the electronic voucher. In one implementation database may be used to by way of example and not limitation to verify the number of samples authorized by electronic voucher sponsor for distribution generally or for distribution by a specific doctor. In other implementations database may be used to verify the types of prescription medications or OTC healthcare items a healthcare provider may distribute using a sample transaction payment card. The number and type of samples distributed in the transaction may then be reflected against the amount and types the healthcare provider has available to distribute in the future. In further implementations the PPD may verify that electronic voucher sponsor has issued the electronic voucher consumer is attempting to use. In such an implementation the authorization process may include comparing the additional information provided against information stored in database . In other implementations database is used to keep a tally of the electronic vouchers used by consumers. In such an implementation this information may then be used by electronic voucher sponsor in deciding future electronic vouchers to issue or for identifying specific consumers for targeted advertising. In still other implementations the additional information includes the identifier for the advertisement that was presented to consumer with the electronic voucher being used such as the advertisement on sample card . In such an implementation the electronic voucher sponsor may charge another entity a fee for each time the advertisement has been presented with the electronic voucher.

In other implementations database is used. Database may contain information regarding all sample transaction payment cards issued for distribution of each type of sample medication or healthcare item. By way of example and not limitation database may be used to verify the authenticity of sample transaction payment card or that sample transaction payment card has only been used once. In further implementations database may contain information regarding the account issued to each electronic voucher sponsor where electronic voucher sponsor is one of up to R electronic voucher sponsors. In such implementations database may be used to verify that the account identifier read from sample card is associated with one of the R electronic voucher sponsors. Database may additionally be used to verify that the associated account contains sufficient funds with which to reimburse retail merchant for the sample distributed.

In yet another implementation another database database contains information regarding all activated sample transaction payment cards wherein prescribing healthcare provider activates sample transaction payment card prior to giving it to patient . Alternatively a representative of electronic voucher sponsor may activate sample transaction payment card prior to providing it to healthcare provider . Approval of the transaction request may in such an implementation depend upon verification that sample transaction payment card is activated.

Once the authorization request is approved and the sample associated with the electronic voucher stored on sample transaction payment card is distributed pharmacy may submit a payment request to payment processing system for reimbursement from electronic voucher sponsor s account for the cost of the sample. Specifically pharmacy submits a request for payment to acquirer . Where acquirer is not the same entity as the issuer of the account associated with the account identifier stored on sample transaction payment card acquirer forwards the request to transaction handler . Transaction handler in turn requests payment for the sample from issuer where issuer is the issuer of the account associated with electronic voucher sponsor . Issuer debits the account and forwards the payment to transaction handler who forwards the payment to acquirer . Finally acquirer credits the account of pharmacy for the cost of the distributed sample.

In certain implementations other information is also read from coupon card such as by way of example and not limitation an expiration date an item type or an item quantity. In such implementations POS terminal may determine whether the electronic coupon is valid for the item being purchased. This may occur by way of example and not limitation by comparing the current date with the expiration data of the electronic coupon. Alternatively POS terminal may determine whether consumer has purchased the quantity of the discounted item specified. POS terminal may also verify whether consumer has actually purchased the item or item type for which the electronic coupon is applicable.

In one implementation consumer additionally provides print out to merchant . Print out has a bar code printed thereon that identifies the item eligible for a discount using the electronic coupon stored on coupon card . In such an implementation the bar code is scanned with a scanner associated with POS terminal to identify the item that is eligible for the discount.

In certain implementations merchant may additionally enter the amount of the discount into POS terminal . In such implementations the discount amount may be printed on print out. In other implementations the discount amount is read by POS terminal from coupon card . In certain implementations POS terminal calculates the discount amount. This may occur by way of example and not limitation where the discount is valid for the purchase of multiple items. In such an implementation POS terminal may calculate the discount amount by multiplying the discount per item by the number of items purchased.

Upon receipt of coupon card the transaction is processed similarly to a method described below in connection with . Merchant submits an authorization request to acquirer via POS terminal which includes the account identifier read from coupon card .

In certain implementations the authorization request may additionally include an account identifier associated with consumer where consumer has paid for the purchase using a credit card debit card or other portable consumer device.

Where acquirer is not the same entity as issuer acquirer forwards the transaction information to a transaction handler who in turn forwards it to issuer to verify that the account associated with electronic coupon sponsor contains sufficient funds to reimburse merchant for the discount.

Upon receipt of a reply from issuer transaction handler forwards an authorization response to acquirer who forwards it to POS terminal of merchant . Where the authorization response contains an approval of the use of the electronic coupon consumer is given a discount on the retail purchase price of the item.

In certain implementations merchant invalidates or deletes the electronic coupon s stored on coupon card using POS terminal once the discount has been applied. In certain implementations coupon card may be a one time use card. In such an implementation merchant may forgo returning coupon card to consumer . In other implementations coupon card may be used to store subsequent electronic coupons and therefore is returned to consumer .

In certain implementations approval of the transaction may be more involved. In such implementations the authorization request includes additional information by way of example and not limitation the item the item type and or the sponsor of the electronic coupon. In certain implementations this information is forwarded by transaction handler to coupon processor for processing. In one implementation database may be used to by way of example and not limitation verify that electronic coupon sponsor has issued the electronic coupon consumer is attempting to use. In such an implementation the authorization process may include a comparison performed by coupon processor of the additional information provided against information stored in database . In yet other implementations coupon processor adds a notation to a coupon stored in database once it has been used by a consumer thereby preventing the coupon from being used more than once. Coupon processor may have direct access to database or may access database via transaction handler .

In other implementations coupon processor uses database to keep a tally of the electronic coupons used by consumers. In such an implementation this information is used by electronic coupon sponsor in deciding future electronic coupons to issue or for identifying specific consumers for targeted advertising. In still other implementations the additional information includes an identifier for the advertisement that was presented to consumer with the electronic coupon being used. In such an implementation after the information is stored in database by coupon processor electronic coupon sponsor may charge another entity a fee for each time the advertisement is shown to consumers. Alternatively electronic coupon sponsor may change the advertisement associated with an electronic coupon after the advertisement has been presented with the electronic coupon a given number of times.

In other implementations database is used. As with database coupon processor may access database directly or via transaction handler . Database may contain information regarding the account issued to each coupon sponsor where electronic coupon sponsor is one of R coupon sponsors. In such implementations coupon processor uses database to verify that the account identifier read from coupon card is associated with one of the R electronic coupon sponsors. Database may additionally be used to verify that the associated account contains funds sufficient to reimburse merchant for the discount applied.

In certain implementations coupon processor is the same entity as transaction handler . In other implementations coupon processor is a separate entity from transaction handler . Similar as discussed in the merchant may submit the transaction to payment processing system for settlement and clearing.

As will be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art the processes described in connection with are equally applicable to the situation where a patient uses a sample transaction payment card having multiple electronic vouchers stored thereon to receive several different samples and or the situation where a consumer uses a coupon card having multiple electronic coupons stored thereon to receive a discount on several items. In such a situation the electronic vouchers and or coupons may be provided by different electronic voucher coupon sponsors i.e. sponsor r sponsor r 1 sponsor r 2 etc. having accounts issued by different issuers for the purpose of reimbursing each dispensing pharmacist n for samples. Further it will be clear to a person of ordinary skill in the art that a sample transaction payment card may have multiple electronic vouchers coupons stored thereon that are valid at different pharmacies and or merchants each pharmacy and or merchant having a different acquirer.

Turning now to a flow chart of an exemplary method used by a transaction handler to process an electronic voucher stored on a consumer payment device is presented. As indicated by block the transaction handler receives an authorization request from a merchant e.g. via the merchant s acquirer requesting authorization to distribute a sample associated with an electronic voucher to a patient. Upon receipt of the request the transaction handler matches the account identifier included in the request with the account identifier associated with the electronic voucher sponsor as indicated by block . In certain implementations if the account identifier included in the request does not match the account identifier associated with the electronic voucher sponsor the transaction handler sends an authorization response to the merchant indicating that the transaction is not authorized such that there will be a denial of the distribution of the free sample to the patient. In such an implementation the process may end.

In the illustrated implementation of the transaction handler next sends a request to the issuer of the account associated with the electronic voucher sponsor requesting verification that the account contains sufficient funds to reimburse the merchant for the sample as indicated by block . As indicated by block upon receipt of a response from the issuer the transaction handler sends a response to the merchant. Where the issuer confirms that the account contains sufficient funds the authorization request may contain an approval. Finally as indicated by block the transaction handler clears and settles the transaction by facilitating a process in which the issuer debits the account of the electronic voucher sponsor and an acquirer for the pharmacist credits the pharmacist s account for the cost of the free prescription medical supply sample that the pharmacist compounded and dispensed to the patient.

In certain implementations individual blocks described above may be combined eliminated or reordered.

In certain implementations instructions are encoded in computer readable medium wherein those instructions are executed by a processor to perform one or more of the blocks and recited in .

In certain implementations individual steps described above in relation to may be combined eliminated or reordered. In yet other implementations instructions reside in any other computer program product where those instructions are executed by a computer external to or internal to a computing system to perform one or more of the blocks and recited in . In either case the instructions may be encoded in a computer readable medium comprising for example a magnetic information storage medium an optical information storage medium an electronic information storage medium and the like. Electronic storage media may mean for example and without limitation one or more devices such as and without limitation a PROM EPROM EEPROM Flash PROM compactflash smartmedia and the like.

Referring to a transaction processing system is seen. The general environment of include that of a merchant m such as the merchant who can conduct a transaction for goods and or services with an account user au e.g. consumer on an account issued to an account holder a by an issuer i where the processes of paying and being paid for the transaction are coordinated by at least one transaction handler th e.g. the transaction handler collectively users . The transaction includes participation from different entities that are each a component of the transaction processing system .

The transaction processing system may have at least one of a plurality of transaction handlers th that includes transaction handler l through transaction handler TH where TH can be up to and greater than an eight digit integer.

The transaction processing system has a plurality of merchants m that includes merchant l through merchant M where M can be up to and greater than an eight digit integer. Merchant m may be a person or entity that sells goods and or services. Merchant m may also be for instance a manufacturer a distributor a retailer a load agent a drugstore a grocery store a gas station a hardware store a supermarket a boutique a restaurant or a doctor s office. In a business to business setting the account holder a may be a second merchant m making a purchase from another merchant m .

Transaction processing system includes account user l through account user AU where AU can be as large as a ten digit integer or larger. Each account user au conducts a transaction with merchant m for goods and or services using the account that has been issued by an issuer i to a corresponding account holder a . Data from the transaction on the account is collected by the merchant m and forwarded to a corresponding acquirer a . Acquirer a forwards the data to transaction handler th who facilitates payment for the transaction from the account issued by the issuer i to account holder a .

Transaction processing system has a plurality of acquirers q . Each acquirer q may be assisted in processing one or more transactions by a corresponding agent acquirer aq where q can be an integer from 1 to Q where aq can be an integer from 1 to AQ and where Q and AQ can be as large as a eight digit integer or larger. Each acquirer q may be assisted in processing one or more transactions by a corresponding agent acquirer aq where q can be an integer from 1 to Q where aq can be an integer from 1 to AQ and where Q and AQ can be as large as a eight digit integer or larger.

The transaction handler th may process a plurality of transactions within the transaction processing system . The transaction handler th can include one or a plurality or networks and switches ns . Each network switch ns can be a mainframe computer in a geographic location different than each other network switch ns where ns is an integer from one to NS and where NS can be as large as a four digit integer or larger.

Dedicated communication systems e.g. private communication network s facilitate communication between the transaction handler th and each issuer i and each acquirer a . A Network via e mail the World Wide Web cellular telephony and or other optionally public and private communications systems can facilitate communications among and between each issuer i each acquirer a each merchant m each account holder a and the transaction handler th . Alternatively and optionally one or more dedicated communication systems and can facilitate respective communications between each acquirer a and each merchant m each merchant m and each account holder a and each account holder a and each issuer i respectively.

The Network may represent any of a variety of suitable means for exchanging data such as an Internet an intranet an extranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a virtual private network a satellite communications network an Automatic Teller Machine ATM network an interactive television network or any combination of the forgoing. Network may contain either or both wired and wireless connections for the transmission of signals including electrical magnetic and a combination thereof. Examples of such connections are known in the art and include radio frequency connections optical connections etc. To illustrate the connection for the transmission of signals may be a telephone link a Digital Subscriber Line or cable link. Moreover network may utilize any of a variety of communication protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP for example. There may be multiple nodes within the network each of which may conduct some level of processing on the data transmitted within the transaction processing system .

Users of the transaction processing system may interact with one another or receive data about one another within the transaction processing system using any of a variety of communication devices. The communication device may have a processing unit operatively connected to a display and memory such as Random Access Memory RAM and or Read Only Memory ROM . The communication device may be combination of hardware and software that enables an input device such as a keyboard a mouse a stylus and touch screen or the like.

For example use of the transaction processing system by the account holder a may include the use of a portable consumer device PCD which can be an implementation of a portable prescription transaction payment device. The PCD may be one of the communication devices or may be used in conjunction with or as part of the communication device. The PCD may be in a form factor that can be a card e.g. bank card payment card financial card credit card charge card debit card gift card transit pass smart card access card a payroll card security card healthcare card or telephone card a tag a wristwatch wrist band a key ring a fob e.g. SPEEDPASS commercially available from ExxonMobil Corporation a machine readable medium containing account information a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant a digital audio player a computer e.g. laptop computer a set top box a portable workstation a minicomputer or a combination thereof. The PCD may have near field or far field communication capabilities e.g. satellite communication or communication to cell sites of a cellular network for telephony or data transfer such as communication with a global positioning system GPS . The PCD may support a number of services such as SMS for text messaging and Multimedia Messaging Service MMS for transfer of photographs and videos electronic mail email access.

The PCD may include a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium such as a magnetic stripe or a memory of a chip or a chipset may include a volatile a non volatile a read only or a programmable memory that stores data such as an account identifier a consumer identifier and or an expiration date. The computer readable medium may including executable instructions that when executed by a computer the computer will perform a method. For example the computer readable memory may include information such as the account number or an account holder a s name.

Examples of the PCD with memory and executable instructions include a smart card a personal digital assistant a digital audio player a cellular telephone a personal computer or a combination thereof. To illustrate the PCD may be a financial card that can be used by a consumer to conduct a contactless transaction with a merchant where the financial card includes a microprocessor a programmable memory and a transponder e.g. transmitter or receiver . The financial card can have near field communication capabilities such as by one or more radio frequency communications such as are used in a Blue Tooth communication wireless protocol for exchanging data over short distances from fixed and mobile devices thereby creating personal area networks.

Merchant m may utilize at least one POI terminal e.g. Point of Service or browser enabled consumer cellular telephone that can communicate with the account user au the acquirer a the transaction handler th or the issuer i . A Point of Interaction POI can be a physical or virtual communication vehicle that provides the opportunity through any channel to engage with the consumer for the purposes of providing content messaging or other communication related directly or indirectly to the facilitation or execution of a transaction between the merchant m and the consumer. Examples of the POI include a physical or virtual Point of Service POS terminal the PCD of the consumer a portable digital assistant a cellular telephone paper mail e mail an Internet website rendered via a browser executing on computing device or a combination of the forgoing. Thus the POI terminal is in operative communication with the transaction processing system .

The PCD may interface with the POI using a mechanism including any suitable electrical magnetic or optical interfacing system such as a contactless system using radio frequency a magnetic field recognition system or a contact system such as a magnetic stripe reader. To illustrate the POI may have a magnetic stripe reader that makes contact with the magnetic stripe of a healthcare card e.g. Flexible Savings Account card of the consumer. As such data encoded in the magnetic stripe on the healthcare card of consumer read and passed to the POI at merchant m . These data can include an account identifier of a healthcare account. In another example the POI may be the PCD of the consumer such as the cellular telephone of the consumer where the merchant m or an agent thereof receives the account identifier of the consumer via a webpage of an interactive website rendered by a browser executing on a World Wide Web Web enabled PCD.

Typically a transaction begins with account user au presenting the portable consumer device to the merchant m to initiate an exchange for resources e.g. a good or service . The portable consumer device may be associated with an account e.g. a credit account of account holder a that was issued to the account holder a by issuer i .

Merchant m may use the POI terminal to obtain account information such as a number of the account of the account holder a from the portable consumer device. The portable consumer device may interface with the POI terminal using a mechanism including any suitable electrical magnetic or optical interfacing system such as a contactless system using radio frequency or magnetic field recognition system or contact system such as a magnetic stripe reader. The POI terminal sends a transaction authorization request to the issuer i of the account associated with the PCD. Alternatively or in combination the PCD may communicate with issuer i transaction handler th or acquirer a .

Issuer i may authorize the transaction and forward same to the transaction handler th . Transaction handler th may also clear the transaction. Authorization includes issuer i or transaction handler th on behalf of issuer i authorizing the transaction in connection with issuer i s instructions such as through the use of business rules. The business rules could include instructions or guidelines from the transaction handler th the account holder a the merchant m the acquirer a the issuer i a related financial institution or combinations thereof. The transaction handler th may but need not maintain a log or history of authorized transactions. Once approved the merchant m may record the authorization allowing the account user au to receive the good or service from merchant m or an agent thereof.

The merchant m may at discrete periods such as the end of the day submit a list of authorized transactions to the acquirer a or other transaction related data for processing through the transaction processing system . The transaction handler th may optionally compare the submitted authorized transaction list with its own log of authorized transactions. The transaction handler th may route authorization transaction amount requests from the corresponding the acquirer a to the corresponding issuer i involved in each transaction. Once the acquirer a receives the payment of the authorized transaction from the issuer i the acquirer a can forward the payment to the merchant m less any transaction costs such as fees for the processing of the transaction. If the transaction involves a debit or pre paid card the acquirer a may choose not to wait for the issuer i to forward the payment prior to paying merchant m .

There may be intermittent steps in the foregoing process some of which may occur simultaneously. For example the acquirer a can initiate the clearing and settling process which can result in payment to the acquirer a for the amount of the transaction. The acquirer a may request from the transaction handler th that the transaction be cleared and settled. Clearing includes the exchange of financial information between the issuer i and the acquirer a and settlement includes the exchange of funds. The transaction handler th can provide services in connection with settlement of the transaction. The settlement of a transaction includes depositing an amount of the transaction settlement from a settlement house such as a settlement bank which transaction handler th typically chooses into a clearinghouse bank such as a clearing bank that acquirer a typically chooses. The issuer i deposits the same from a clearinghouse bank such as a clearing bank which the issuer i typically chooses into the settlement house. Thus a typical transaction involves various entities to request authorize and fulfill processing the transaction.

The transaction processing system will preferably have network components suitable for scaling the number and data payload size of transactions that can be authorized cleared and settled in both real time and batch processing. These include hardware software data elements and storage network devices for the same. Examples of transaction processing system include those operated at least in part by American Express Travel Related Services Company Inc MasterCard International Inc. Discover Financial Services Inc. First Data Corporation Diners Club International LTD Visa Inc. and agents of the foregoing.

Each of the network switch ns can include one or more data centers for processing transactions where each transaction can include up to 100 kilobytes of data or more. The data corresponding to the transaction can include information about the types and quantities of goods and services in the transaction information about the account holder a the account user au the merchant m tax and incentive treatment s of the goods and services coupons rebates rewards loyalty discounts returns exchanges cash back transactions etc.

By way of example network switch ns can include one or more mainframe computers e.g. one or more IBM mainframe computers for one or more server farms e.g. one or more Sun UNIX Super servers where the mainframe computers and server farms can be in diverse geographic locations.

Each issuer i or agent issuer ai thereof and each acquirer a or agent acquirer aq thereof can use or more router switch e.g. Cisco routers switches to communicate with each network switch ns via dedicated communication systems.

Transaction handler th can store information about transactions processed through transaction processing system in data warehouses such as may be incorporated as part of the plurality of networks switches . This information can be data mined. The data mining transaction research and modeling can be used for advertising account holder and merchant loyalty incentives and rewards fraud detection and prediction and to develop tools to demonstrate savings and efficiencies made possible by use of the transaction processing system over paying and being paid by cash or other traditional payment mechanisms.

The VisaNet system is an example component of the transaction handler th in the transaction processing system . Presently the VisaNet system is operated in part by Visa Inc. As of 2006 the VisaNet system Inc. was processing around 300 million transaction daily on over 1 billion accounts used in over 170 countries. Financial instructions numbering over 16 000 connected through the VisaNet system to around 20 million merchants m . In 2007 around 71 billion transactions for about 4 trillion U.S. dollars were cleared and settled through the VisaNet system some of which involved a communication length of around 24 000 miles in around two 2 seconds.

The following example is presented to further illustrate to persons skilled in the art how to make and use the invention. This example is not intended as a limitation however upon the scope of the invention which is defined only by the appended claims.

By way of example and not limitation a doctor may diagnose a patient as needing a medication manufactured and distributed by a given pharmaceutical company and decide to provide a sample using a sample transaction payment card according to the present discussion. Through use of a card processor system the doctor can determine whether he or she has available samples of the medications to distribute and if so can request that a sample transaction payment card be activated and associated with an electronic voucher for a sample of the medication. The request may include a specific number of samples for distribution and a coupon for an OTC item. The request for example may be received by an sponsor account issuer and or a transaction handler who will facilitate the activation of the sample transaction payment card and association of account identifier with the sample drug and or medical supply information. Here the account holder of the sponsor account might be a pharmaceutical company who wishes to promote the use of the drug by giving out free samples to patients via their prescribing physicians.

The prescribing doctor or agent thereof may additionally use the card processor system to store information relating to the sample medications the prescribing doctor him or herself the patient prescriptions dosing instructions and any other information on the sample transaction payment card. These data could be stored via a magnetic stripe imbedded microchip or other memory storage device.

Once done the patient then presents the sample transaction payment card to a pharmacy to redeem the samples. The pharmacy may require the patient to show identification such as a driver s license to compare with information printed or stored on the sample transaction payment card. The pharmacy then sends an authorization request for permission to dispense the medication and to charge the pharmaceutical company s account. The authorization request is for example received by the pharmacy s acquirer who forwards it for processing by a transaction handler.

The transaction handler may then send an authorization response authorizing the distribution of the samples after matching the account identifier of the sample transaction payment card activated by the doctor with the account identifier of the card presented to the pharmacy. Upon receiving the authorization response the pharmacy may then distribute the approved quantity of the medication to the patient. If the sample transaction payment card is a one time use card the transaction handler may additionally deactivate it. The transaction handler may also send a request to the issuer of the sample transaction payment card to debit the pharmaceutical company s account for the cost of the samples and forward that payment to the acquirer for deposit in the pharmacy s account. Furthermore the transaction handler may send a request to the issuer of the portable consumer transaction payment device to debit the patient s account for the cost of the item purchased and forward that payment to the acquirer for deposit in the pharmacy s account.

The steps methods processes and devices described in connection with the implementations disclosed herein are made with reference to the Figures in which like numerals represent the same or similar elements. While described in terms of the best mode it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents as supported by the following disclosure and drawings. Reference throughout this specification to one implementation an implementation or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the implementation is included in at least one implementation of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one implementation in an implementation and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same implementation.

The described features structures or characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more implementations. In the following description numerous specific details are recited to provide a thorough understanding of implementations of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

The schematic flow charts included are generally set forth as logical flow chart diagrams. As such the depicted order and labeled steps are indicative of one implementation of the presented method. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more steps or portions thereof of the illustrated method. Additionally the format and symbols employed are provided to explain the logical steps of the method and are understood not to limit the scope of the method. Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flow chart diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding method. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the method. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted method. Additionally the order in which a particular method occurs may or may not strictly adhere to the order of the corresponding steps shown.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described implementations are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

Typically users e.g. which may be people and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the PPD controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network . For example the PPD controller may be connected to and or communicate with users e.g. operating client device s e.g. including but not limited to personal computer s server s and or various mobile device s including but not limited to cellular telephone s smartphone s e.g. iPhone Blackberry Android OS based phones etc. tablet computer s e.g. Apple iPad HP Slate Motorola Xoom etc. eBook reader s e.g. Amazon Kindle Barnes and Noble s Nook eReader etc. laptop computer s notebook s netbook s gaming console s e.g. XBOX Live Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation Portable etc. portable scanner s and or the like.

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer program other device user and or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The PPD controller may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effectuate communications operations storage etc. The computer systemization may be connected to a power source e.g. optionally the power source may be internal. Optionally a cryptographic processor and or transceivers e.g. ICs may be connected to the system bus. In another embodiment the cryptographic processor and or transceivers may be connected as either internal and or external peripheral devices via the interface bus I O. In turn the transceivers may be connected to antenna s thereby effectuating wireless transmission and reception of various communication and or sensor protocols for example the antenna s may connect to a Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 3.0 FM global positioning system GPS thereby allowing PPD controller to determine its location Broadcom BCM4329FKUBG transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 2.1 EDR FM etc. a Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 receiver chip e.g. GPS an Infineon Technologies X Gold 68 PMB9800 e.g. providing 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications and or the like. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. It should be understood that in alternative embodiments any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s application embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the PPD controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed PPD mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the PPD may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS 51 i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the PPD some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the PPD component collection distributed or otherwise and or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the PPD may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example PPD features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of the PPD features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the PPD system designer administrator somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the operation of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational operators such as decoders or simple mathematical operations. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be circuit flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the PPD may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate PPD controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the PPD.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the PPD thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the PPD controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed PPD architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the PPD controller. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless transceivers 802.11a b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA high speed downlink packet access HSDPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax etc. and or the like. One typical output device may include a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices often are a type of peripheral device see below and may include card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards microphones mouse mice remote controls retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors e.g. accelerometers ambient light GPS gyroscopes proximity etc. styluses and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces directly to the interface bus system bus the CPU and or the like. Peripheral devices may be external internal and or part of the PPD controller. Peripheral devices may include antenna audio devices e.g. line in line out microphone input speakers etc. cameras e.g. still video webcam etc. dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added capabilities e.g. crypto devices force feedback devices e.g. vibrating motors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices transceivers e.g. cellular GPS etc. video devices e.g. goggles monitors etc. video sources visors and or the like. Peripheral devices often include types of input devices e.g. cameras .

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the PPD controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the PPD controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of the CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include the Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7100 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2100 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the PPD controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the operation of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism however such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server the PPD component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the PPD controller. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Nan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the PPD controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the PPD controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the PPD controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the PPD database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the PPD database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the PPD. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the PPD as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

Computer interfaces in some respects are similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access capabilities operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT XP Vista 7 i.e. Aero Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Also in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar operations of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the PPD enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POPS simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the PPD.

Access to the PPD mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash operation passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the PPD may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the PPD component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the PPD and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The PPD database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the PPD database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of capabilities encapsulated within a given object. If the PPD database is implemented as a data structure the use of the PPD database may be integrated into another component such as the PPD component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A Users table may include fields such as but not limited to user id ssn dob first name last name age state address firstline address secondline zipcode devices list contact info contact type alt contact info alt contact type user gender user clothing size user body type user eye color user hair color user complexion user personalized gesture models user recommended items user image user image date user body joint location and or the like. The Users table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on a TVC. A Devices table may include fields such as but not limited to device ID device name device IP device GPS device MAC device serial device ECID device UDID device browser device type device model device version device OS device apps list device securekey wallet app installed flag and or the like. An Apps table may include fields such as but not limited to app ID app name app type app dependencies app access code user pin and or the like. An Accounts table may include fields such as but not limited to account number account security code account name issuer acquirer flag issuer name acquirer name account address routing number access API call linked wallets list and or the like. A Merchants table may include fields such as but not limited to merchant id merchant name merchant address store id ip address mac address auth key port num security settings list and or the like. An Issuers table may include fields such as but not limited to issuer id issuer name issuer address ip address mac address auth key port num security settings list and or the like. An Acquirers table may include fields such as but not limited to account firstname account lastname account type account num account balance list billingaddress line1 billingaddress line2 billing zipcode billing state shipping preferences shippingaddress line1 shippingaddress line2 shipping zipcode shipping state and or the like. A Pay Gateways table may include fields such as but not limited to gateway ID gateway IP gateway MAC gateway secure key gateway access list gateway API call list gateway services list and or the like. A Shop Sessions table may include fields such as but not limited to user id session id alerts URL timestamp expiry lapse merchant id store id device type device ID device IP device MAC device browser device serial device ECID device model device OS wallet app installed total cost cart ID list product params list social flag social message social networks list coupon lists accounts list CVV2 lists charge ratio list charge priority list value exchange symbols list bill address ship address cloak flag pay mode alerts rules list and or the like. A Transactions table may include fields such as but not limited to order id user id timestamp transaction cost purchase details list num products products list product type product params list product title product summary quantity user id client id client ip client type client model operating system os version app installed flag user id account firstname account lastname account type account num account priority account ratio billingaddress line1 billingaddress line2 billing zipcode billing state shipping preferences shippingaddress line1 shippingaddress line2 shipping zipcode shipping state merchant id merchant name merchant auth key and or the like. A Batches table may include fields such as but not limited to batch id transaction id list timestamp list cleared flag list clearance trigger settings and or the like. A Ledgers table may include fields such as but not limited to request id timestamp deposit amount batch id transaction id clear flag deposit account transaction summary payor name payor account and or the like. A Products table may include fields such as but not limited to product ID product title product attributes list product price tax info list related products list offers list discounts list rewards list merchants list merchant availability list product date added product image product qr product manufacturer product model product aisle product stack product shelf product type and or the like. An Offers table may include fields such as but not limited to offer ID offer title offer attributes list offer price offer expiry related products list discounts list rewards list merchants list merchant availability list and or the like. A Behavior Data table may include fields such as but not limited to user id timestamp activity type activity location activity attribute list activity attribute values list and or the like.

In one embodiment the PPD database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by search PPD component may treat the combination of the PPD database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the PPD. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the PPD may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The PPD may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The PPD database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the PPD database communicates with the PPD component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The PPD component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the PPD component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the PPD discussed in the previous figures. As such the PPD affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks.

The PPD component may transform user triggering inputs e.g. card swipping touchscreen inputs etc. indicating a purchase request via PPD components e.g. transaction processing account usage verification account management etc. into purchase transaction triggers and receipt notices e.g. see in .

The PPD component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions web development environments and libraries e.g. Microsoft s ActiveX Adobe AIR FLEX FLASH AJAX D HTML Dojo Java JavaScript jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SWFObject Yahoo User Interface and or the like WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the PPD server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The PPD component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the PPD component communicates with the PPD database operating systems other program components and or the like. The PPD may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the PPD node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the PPD controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Jini local and remote application program interfaces JavaScript Object Notation JSON Remote Method Invocation RMI SOAP process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing capabilities which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components.

where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because http is part of the grammar syntax and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly with such a grammar a variable Value1 may be inserted into an http post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and or otherwise used to generate the parsing mechanism e.g. a syntax description text file as processed by lex yacc etc. . Also once the parsing mechanism is generated and or instantiated it itself may process and or parse structured data such as but not limited to character e.g. tab delineated text HTML structured text streams XML and or the like structured data. In another embodiment inter application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and or readily available parsers e.g. JSON SOAP and or like parsers that may be employed to parse e.g. communications data. Further the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing but may also be used to parse databases data collections data stores structured data and or the like. Again the desired configuration will depend upon the context environment and requirements of system deployment.

For example in some implementations the PPD controller may be executing a PHP script implementing a Secure Sockets Layer SSL socket server via the information server which listens to incoming communications on a server port to which a client may send data e.g. data encoded in JSON format. Upon identifying an incoming communication the PHP script may read the incoming message from the client device parse the received JSON encoded text data to extract information from the JSON encoded text data into PHP script variables and store the data e.g. client identifying information etc. and or extracted information in a relational database accessible using the Structured Query Language SQL . An exemplary listing written substantially in the form of PHP SQL commands to accept JSON encoded input data from a client device via a SSL connection parse the data to extract variables and store the data to a database is provided below 

Also the following resources may be used to provide example embodiments regarding SOAP parser implementation 

5. The method as defined in Embodiment 1 wherein the image corresponding to the free prescription medical supply sample includes a code identifying the free prescription medical supply and configured for being scanned by a scanner at a Point of Service terminal.

an advertisement for a different product other than the free prescription medical supply that is also provided by the dispensing pharmacist and

In order to address various issues and advance the art the entirety of this application for PORTABLE PRESCRIPTION PAYMENT DEVICE MANAGEMENT PLATFORM APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures Appendices and or otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed innovations may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed innovations. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the innovations or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the innovations and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical operational organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the innovations and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other innovations not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed innovations including the right to claim such innovations file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical operational organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a PPD individual and or enterprise user database configuration and or relational model data type data transmission and or network framework syntax structure and or the like various embodiments of the PPD may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization. For example aspects of the PPD may be adapted for financial trading operations security resource management and or the like. While various embodiments and discussions of the PPD have been directed to restricted product supply management however it is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be readily configured and or customized for a wide variety of other applications and or implementations.

