---

title: Methods and apparatus for reducing the impact of RF interference based on estimation of colored noise
abstract: A mobile device having first and second RF transceivers performs a communication function in accordance with a communication protocol of the second RF transceiver. During performance of this function, the mobile device estimates the RF interference on a channel of the first RF transceiver, and stores parameters which characterize the estimated RF interference in association with an identifier corresponding to the function. These actions are repeated for a plurality of channels of the first RF transceiver, as well as for a plurality of different communication functions. When performing a communication function again, the mobile device receives an identifier corresponding to the function and retrieves stored parameters corresponding to the received identifier. The mobile device applies the retrieved parameters to the first RF transceiver for reducing the adverse effect of RF interference during reception on the channel of the first RF transceiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191991&OS=09191991&RS=09191991
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09191991
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130227
---
The present disclosure relates generally to mobile communication devices configured for radio frequency RF communications and more particularly to techniques for reducing the impact of RF interference in such communications.

A mobile communication device such as a smartphone or cellular telephone may be configured for radio frequency RF communications in a wireless communication network. For example such a device may communicate via access points APs of a wireless local area network WLAN in accordance with IEEE 802.11 technology or the like. Such a device may be additionally configured for RF communications with use of a cellular technology for example in accordance with Long Term Evolution LTE radio technology. The RF bands assigned for use of these technologies are adjacent one another.

There is a need for ensuring that communications are not hindered due to RF interference from use of co located radios e.g. IEEE 802.11 and LTE radios contained within the same mobile device in these and similar environments.

Techniques for reducing the effect or impact of RF interference for a mobile device having first and second RF transceivers are described herein. In a learning mode of operation the mobile device performs a communication function in accordance with a communication protocol of the second RF transceiver. During performance of this function the mobile device estimates the RF interference on a channel of the first RF transceiver and stores parameters which characterize the estimated RF interference in association with an identifier corresponding to the function. These actions are repeated for a plurality of channels of the first RF transceiver as well as for a plurality of different communication functions of the second RF transceiver. In a communication mode of operation when performing a communication function again the mobile device receives an identifier associated with the function and retrieves the stored parameters corresponding to the received identifier. The mobile device applies the retrieved parameters to the first RF transceiver for reducing the adverse effect or impact of the RF interference during reception on the channel of the first RF transceiver.

Example Environment. To illustrate one environment within which the techniques of the present disclosure may be practiced illustrates a mobile communication device which may communicate in a communication system . In the communication system mobile device may communicate with one or more wireless communication networks. For example mobile device may communicate with a wireless communication network which is a wireless local area network WLAN . Here wireless network and mobile device may operate in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards.

In this example wireless network has a plurality of wireless access points APs and for wireless communications with mobile device . WLANs may be identified by a mobile device with use of an identifier which may be communicated from the WLAN. The wireless network identifier may be for example a Set Service Identifier SSID or Extended SSID ESSID . In this example wireless network includes one or more servers and a gateway . Server may provide data applications and or functionality for communication services for mobile device .

Wireless network may be a public wireless local area network hotspot for public use for example a WI FI hotspot for public use and include what may be referred to as a captive portal or walled garden. For devices connected in wireless network via one of wireless APs and gateway is configured to permit or deny access to the data applications and or functionality as well as to permit or deny external access outside of wireless network to Internet . To do this gateway has a set of IP address filters which define a set of addresses that are permissible impermissible if any at all for access by devices. Access by a device depends on whether or not a device has been authorized and what access rights are given upon authorization.

Typically when a request by a device in wireless network is made prior to proper authorization gateway is configured to redirect the request to a redirect server. In response the redirect server is configured to respond to mobile device to provide data for producing information e.g. Web page information which is rendered in a visual display of mobile device via a Web browser application. The information may solicit a user response such as a user registration or login with user fields for entering a user name and or password information. Gateway identifies whether the received user response is sufficient e.g. whether the user name and password match prestored user name and password information whether the user payment is accepted whether the user acceptance is confirmed etc. . If the user response is deemed sufficient gateway permits access to the data applications and or functionality in or outside of wireless network .

Mobile device may also operate for communications in other different wireless networks such as a wireless network which is also a WLAN. In this example wireless network is a private communication network of an enterprise e.g. an organization a company a corporation etc. of mobile device . Similar to wireless network wireless network has a plurality of wireless APs and one or more servers and a gateway . For devices connected in wireless network via one of wireless APs and gateway may be configured to permit or deny access to the data applications and or functionality offered via wireless network depending on whether or not a device has been authorized and what access rights are given upon authorization. For devices attempting to access wireless network via Internet gateway is configured to permit or deny internal access to the data applications and or functionality in wireless network .

Such wireless networks e.g. infrastructure WLANs may provide or allow access to various data and communication services to its terminals. For example the wireless networks may provide for communication access to Internet via the Web browser application or voice telephony communication service with use of Voice over IP VoIP communication or other communication services. For push type data or message synchronization services for example mobile device may be enabled to maintain data synchronization with a server e.g. server or for user data of an application associated with a user account. The application of mobile device and the server may be or include for example an electronic mail e mail application program for the communication of e mail messages.

Although the description relates to a specific example for illustration where the wireless network or WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network different environments may be applicable as well. The wireless network may be a wireless metropolitan area network for example a WIMAX based network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB based network i.e. IEEE 802.15 as a few examples.

Mobile device may be additionally configured to access communication services via a Public Land Wireless Network PLMN e.g. a cellular telecommunications network . PLMN includes a core network a plurality of base station controllers such as a base station controller BSC coupled to core network and a plurality of base stations such as a base station BS and a base station coupled to associated BSCs . Core network BSC and BS operate in a conventional fashion as well documented. Other PLMNs in the environment have a similar or the same architecture as PLMN . For communication with PLMNs such mobile device may be configured in accordance with one or more cellular telecommunication standards such as Long Term Evolution LTE technology standards. Other technologies may be deemed suitable such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or EVolution Data Only EV DO for CDMA technologies as a few examples.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates one example of a block diagram of mobile device in which example embodiments may be applied. In the illustrated example embodiment mobile device is a communication device and more particularly is a mobile communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and configured to communicate with other computer systems e.g. via the Internet . It will however be appreciated that mobile device may take other forms.

Depending on the functionality provided by mobile device in various example embodiments mobile device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computers such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. Mobile device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device.

Mobile device includes a controller including one or more processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of mobile device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker and or electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown and or a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a near field communications NFC subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some example embodiments mobile device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. In at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may have a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame of which surrounds the display . In such example embodiments the frame of may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of mobile device .

As noted above in some example embodiments mobile device may include a communication subsystem which allows mobile device to communicate via wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to mobile device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on wireless network in which mobile device is intended to operate.

In at least some example embodiments mobile device may communicate with any one of a plurality of stations or access points APs of wireless network within its geographic coverage area. Mobile device may send and receive communication signals over wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital AID conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

Mobile device may also include another wireless communication subsystem . Communication subsystem may be for example a wireless transceiver or radio configured for communications in accordance with cellular communication technologies such as LTE technologies. The wireless network with which communication subsystem interacts may be a second wireless network of a second type which is different from the wireless network of the first type. Communication subsystem may operate for wireless communications in a manner generally similar to communication subsystem .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. Mobile device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on mobile device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to mobile device other than through wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto mobile device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some example embodiments mobile device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some example embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of mobile device . The orientation data in at least some example embodiments specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth.

In some example embodiments the orientation subsystem may include other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various example embodiments the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some example embodiments the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

Mobile device may in at least some example embodiments include a near field communications NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other wireless devices and or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a very short distance e.g. 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna.

Mobile device may include a microphone and or one or more speakers. In at least some example embodiments mobile device may include a plurality of speakers . For example in some example embodiments mobile device may include two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some example embodiments mobile device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within mobile device . In at least some example embodiments the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such example embodiments the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display. In at least some example embodiments each speaker may be associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

Mobile device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video. In at least some example embodiments mobile device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of mobile device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of mobile device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of mobile device and or the housing of mobile device . In such example embodiments the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display and or the housing. In at least some example embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some example embodiments mobile device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some example embodiments the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that mobile device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera mobile device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of mobile device . That is in at least some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on mobile device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images obtained by the camera.

In some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some example embodiments mobile device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USE or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their mobile device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for wireless network is automatically routed to mobile device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable or Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing

Mobile device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in mobile device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides a regulated voltage V to the circuitry for powering mobile device .

Mobile device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information required by mobile device to establish and maintain communication with wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on mobile device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of mobile device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

Mobile device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. The communications make use of communication subsystem communication subsystem or both. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of mobile device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem or over the wireless network.

In the voice communication mode mobile device provides voice telephony functions. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as preferred device mode module . In the example embodiment of the preferred device mode module is implemented as a stand alone application . However in other example embodiments the preferred device mode module could be implemented as part of the operating system or another application .

The software applications on mobile device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on mobile device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto mobile device through wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

Example Smartphone Electronic Device. Referring now to a front view of an example mobile device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to execute third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at the front side of the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a speaker . In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the smartphone .

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other example embodiments the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some example embodiments the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The example smartphone also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The example smartphone also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

Example Tablet Electronic Device. The wireless device may be a tablet computer tablet one of which is illustrated in . Tablet computer of may include many of the same features and components of the smartphone of . However tablet computer of is generally larger than the smartphone of . Tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. Tablet computer includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

Tablet computer includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within tablet computer so that it is viewable at a front side of tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of tablet computer . In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing with use of a frame which surrounds the display . The frame is portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some example embodiments the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows mobile device to detect a touch applied to the frame thereby allowing the frame to act as an input interface .

The example tablet computer includes a plurality of speakers . In the example embodiment illustrated the tablet includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display . Both speakers are disposed on the front side of tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the tablet computer is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other example embodiments.

The example tablet computer also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of tablet computer . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of tablet computer . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

In environments requiring use of two or more co located radios e.g. IEEE 802.11 and LTE radios contained within the same mobile device utilizing adjacent RF bands there is a need for ensuring that communications are not hindered due to RF interference from their simultaneous use.

To better illustrate is a diagram of a frequency spectrum which shows a first radio frequency RF band for communication in the first wireless network of the first type e.g. WLAN or 802.11type and a second RF band or for communications in the second wireless network of the second type e.g. LTE type . As revealed in the diagram any one of second RF bands or of the second type is adjacent to the first RF band . Communications in the first RF band may be interfered by communications with the second wireless network in second RF band or if no special techniques are employed in relation to the mobile device.

In particular with respect to using both WLAN and LTE it has been observed that LTE transmissions degrade the performance of a co located WLAN radio receiver due to out of band leakage and adjacent channel interference. Some of this may be attributed to the non linear behavior of the receiver in the adjacent band. To illustrate is a graph of different relationships and between receiver sensitivity and antenna isolation for different WLAN channels where interference is produced by the co located LTE a radio. In particular graph reveals the loss in receiver sensitivity as a function of antenna isolation during LTE transmissions. LTE B radio i.e. see second RF band was set to 20 MHz fc 2509 MHz with resource block allocation and output power of 22 dBm. As is apparent the WLAN channel closest to the LTEa band i.e. relationship of channel suffers 15 dB of desense with a typical LTEa to WLAN antenna isolation of 13 dB. This degradation is measured at an LTE output power of 22 dBm but is expected to be greater at the maximum LTE output power of 24 dBm.

Referring ahead to what are shown are flowcharts for describing methods in a mobile communication device for use in reducing the adverse effect or impact of the RF interference previously described. More particularly corresponds to a method of processing for a first RF transceiver e.g. communication subsystem of of the mobile device and corresponds to a corresponding method of processing for a second RF transceiver e.g. communication subsystem of of the mobile device. Communications using the first RF transceiver are performed within a first RF band and communications using the second RF transceiver are performed in a second RF band which is adjacent to the first RF band. In the flowcharts of processing for the first and the second RF transceivers is performed in accordance with a learning mode of operation. The methods will be described with reference to the flowcharts of in combination.

Beginning at a start block of processing for the first RF transceiver identifies whether the first wireless network is new that is communications are being performed in relation to a newly encountered first wireless network and or access point step of . If no at step then the processing continues to monitor for such condition. On the other hand if yes at step then the learning mode of operation is initiated for the first RF transceiver step of the learning mode of operation being described in the further steps of the flowcharts. In general in the learning mode of operation the mobile device will learn the RF interference present on one or more channels of the first RF transceiver which is caused by different communication functions being performed using the second RF transceiver.

Processing for the second RF transceiver receives an indication to start the learning mode of operation step of and in response starts the learning mode of operation step of . In this step processing for the first RF transceiver may send an instruction or command to the processing for the second RF transceiver where the instruction or command indicates that the learning mode of operation for the second RF transceiver will commence.

Processing for the first RF transceiver then identifies one or more channels in the first RF band that need to be assessed for RF interference from use of the second RF transceiver step of . All of the valid channels in the first RF band may be identified for assessment in this step. On the other hand only some the channels in the first RF band may need to be assessed for RF interference. For example some channels in the first RF band that are closer in frequency to the second RF band may need to be assessed whereas other channels in the first RF band that are further in frequency from the second RF band may not. As another example some channels in the first RF band may need to be assessed whereas other channels in the first RF band may not need to be assessed as the assessment of the other channels is the same or similar to them and may be similarly applied. As a further example only the single channel that has been previously used with the specific access point may need to be assessed.

Processing for the second RF transceiver then identifies one of a plurality of communication functions to be performed using the second RF transceiver step of . Processing for the first RF transceiver also identifies this particular communication function to be performed step of . For example the communication function may be a resource block allocation function a resource block offset function an index function a transmit power function or other predetermined function. Each one of these functions is associated with a known protocol e.g. of the adopted communication standard associated with the second RF transceiver.

Here processing for the second RF transceiver may send a message instruction or command to the processing for the first RF transceiver where the message instruction or command includes an identifier which identifies the particular communication function which will be performed. Alternatively processing for the first. RF transceiver may send a message instruction or command to the processing for the second RF transceiver where the message instruction or command includes an identifier which identifies the particular communication function to be performed by the second RF transceiver. Also alternatively a central processor may control and communicate with both communication subsystems where the communication subsystems do not communicate with each other at least for these purposes.

In relation to step and step see e.g. the block diagram of which shows both communication subsystems and and the one or more processors associated therewith. A message instruction or command which includes the identifier of the communication function may be sent from second RF transceiver on a communication bus . On the other hand a message instruction or command which includes the identifier of the communication function may be sent from one or more processors on communication bus .

Referring back to processing for the first RF transceiver then selects the first channel to be assessed for RF interference step of . Processing for both the first and the second RF transceivers will then delay until it is time to simultaneously commence the process. Processing for the second RF transceiver delays to perform the communication function step of while processing for the first RF transceiver delays to perform an estimate of the RF interference on the selected channel which is caused by the performance of the communication function step of . Simultaneous initiation of both processes may be achieved by communicating a trigger signal or alternatively by setting and including a time for commencement in the command or instruction communicated between the first and the second RF transceivers in steps and .

At the appropriate time processing for the second RF transceiver initiates the performance of the communication function involving the second RF transceiver step of . The communication function is performed in accordance with a communication protocol of the second RF transceiver where the communications are performed in the second RF band. At the same time processing for the first RF transceiver performs an estimation of the RF interference on the channel in the first RF band which is caused by the performance of the communication function using the second RF transceiver operating in the second RF band step of . This estimation may be an estimation of the noise power spectrum on the channel.

These processes will continue until they are completed step of step of which will generally be dictated by the length of time to complete the communication function. Ceasing of the estimation process in step of may be achieved by communicating a trigger signal upon the end of the performance of the communication function. Alternatively ceasing of the estimation process in step may be achieved by setting a time for ceasing the process i.e. which may be known in advance for example in a message command or instruction communicated between the first and the second RF transceivers e.g. steps and .

Once the estimation is done at step of of processing for the first RF transceiver stores in memory parameters that characterize the estimated RF interference step of . These parameters are stored in association with the identifier of the communication function as well in association with an identifier of the channel e.g. channel number . Note that this information may be further stored in association with an identifier of the access point e.g. BSSID and an identifier of the network e.g. SSID or ESSID .

See e.g. again the schematic block diagram of which shows memory having the relevant information stored therein. Advantageously the stored parameters will be readily accessible for use during the communication mode of operation see discussion below in relation to .

Processing for the first RF transceiver then identifies whether there are more channels of the access point to be assessed step of . If yes at step then the processing repeats back at step to identify or select the next channel and again perform the estimation at step as previously described. Processing for the second RF transceiver similarly repeats its processing for the next channel step of .

If no at steps and step where all relevant channels for the access point have been assessed then processing for the first and the second RF transceivers identify if there are additional communication functions of the second RF transceiver to be performed step of step of . If there are additional communication functions to perform as identified at steps and then the processing identifies or selects the next communication function of the second RF transceiver step of step of . For example again the next communication function may be a resource block allocation function a resource block offset function an index function a transmit power function etc.

As stated previously processing for the second RF transceiver may send a next message instruction or command to the processing for the first RF transceiver where the next message instruction or command includes a next identifier which identifies the next particular communication function which will be performed. Alternatively processing for the first RF transceiver may send a next message instruction or command to the processing for the second RF transceiver where the next message instruction or command includes a next identifier which identifies the next particular communication function to be performed by the second RF transceiver. Also alternatively a central processor may control and communicate with both communication subsystems where the communication subsystems do not communicate with each other at least for these purposes.

Thus the second RF transceiver will perform the next communication function at step of while processing for the first RF transceiver performs an estimation of the RF interference on the selected channel selected in step at step of . Once the estimation is done at step of of processing for the first RF transceiver stores parameters that characterize the estimated RF interference at step of . Again the parameters are stored in association with the next identifier of this next communication function as well in association with an identifier of the channel e.g. channel number as previously described.

The process repeats for additional channels as identified in step as well as any additional communication functions as identified in step . The process of ends at an end block of and the process of ends at an end block of .

Again an estimation of the RF interference on the channel in the first RF band is produced in step which may be an estimation of the noise power spectrum on the channel. Referring briefly to what are shown are graphs of examples of power noise spectrum curves and of RF interference on two different IEEE 802.11 channels e.g. channels and respectively . It has been observed that curve may be approximated by a function of 3order whereas curve may be approximated by a function of 1order. As is apparent parameters of these curves and may be stored as the parameters in step . Note further that a reduced subset of points may be stored where tie missing points in between are interpolated.

Beginning at a start block of processing for the first RF transceiver identifies or initiates operation in accordance with the communication mode of operation step of . In the communication mode of operation the mobile device is generally maintaining communications via an access point of a wireless network using the first RF transceiver. Processing for the first RF transceiver identifies the selected wireless network e.g. by SSID or ESSID the access point that is currently associated with e.g. by BSSID and the channel of operation of the access point step of .

Communication processing for the first RF transceiver is performed normally until it is identified that one of the communication functions using the second RF transceiver will be performed step of . Processing for the second RF transceiver may for example send a message instruction or command to processing for the first RF transceiver where the message instruction or command includes an identifier which identifies the particular communication function which will be performed.

When the communication function is identified at step processing for the first RF transceiver retrieves from memory stored parameters which characterize RF interference associated therewith step of . The stored parameters are retrieved based on the identifier of the access point the identifier of the channel and the identifier of the communication function. Processing for the first RF transceiver then applies these retrieved parameters to the first RF transceiver for reducing the adverse effect or impact of RF interference during reception on the channel of the first. RF transceiver step of . Processing repeats back at step upon identifying that a new channel a new access point and or a new network has be selected step of .

Thus techniques for reducing the adverse effect or impact of RF interference for a mobile device having first and second RF transceivers have been described. In a learning mode of operation the mobile device performs a communication function in accordance with a communication protocol of the second RF transceiver. During performance of this function the mobile device estimates the RF interference on a channel of the first RF transceiver and stores parameters which characterize the estimated RF interference in association with an identifier corresponding to the function. These actions are repeated for a plurality of channels of the first RF transceiver as well as for a plurality of different communication functions of the second RF transceiver. In a communication mode of operation when performing a communication function again the mobile device receives an identifier corresponding to the function and retrieves stored parameters corresponding to the received identifier. The mobile device applies the retrieved parameters to the first RF transceiver for reducing the adverse effect or impact of the RF interference during reception on the channel of the first RF transceiver.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to be examples only. Those of skill in the art may affect alterations modifications and variations to the particular embodiments without departing from the scope of the application. Although the description relates to specific examples for illustration where the WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network for example different environments may be applicable as well. As a few other examples the wireless networking may be based on a wireless metropolitan area network for example a WIMAX network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB network i.e. IEEE 802.15 . The invention described herein in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

