---

title: Displaying images for people associated with a message item
abstract: Technologies are described herein for displaying a list of people associated with a message item along with images and other personal context information in a PIM application. The people associated with the message item are identified and a list is generated containing a name, an image, and other personal context information for each. The list of people associated with the message item is displayed in a window of the PIM along with the information regarding the message item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09250855&OS=09250855&RS=09250855
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09250855
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130912
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 147 825 filed Jun. 27 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 539 031 issued Sep. 17 2013 entitled Displaying Images for People Associated with a Message Item which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Personal information manager PIM applications generally provide access to email calendar events and contacts to users of personal computers. However as a part of an enterprise wide office suite installation a PIM may provide a centralized portal to business information and processes including communications events people documents and other business data. Often instead of locating documents and business data through a file system a user will access a document or other data based upon its association with an item in a PIM such as a document attached to an email message or a report linked to a calendar event.

Many items maintained by a PIM are also associated with a number of people in an organization such as attendees of meetings or recipients of email messages. Realizing the identities of people associated with an item is frequently important to understanding the context of the item or appreciating its importance. In this regard PIMs may present the people associated with an item as a list of names or email addresses. In a large organization that employs many diverse individuals a user viewing such a list of names or email addresses in the PIM may not be able to make a cognitive link between a name or email address and the actual identity of the person. For example a user viewing the name of a recipient for an email message may not recognize the recipient either because the user knows the person by a different familiar name or because the name is spelled differently than it is pronounced. Further for a user viewing a list of attendees to an upcoming meeting a simple list of email addresses provides no personal context by which the user can recognize and address the other attendees of the meeting.

Technologies are described herein for displaying images for people associated with a message item such as an email message or meeting item in a PIM. Each person associated with a message item is displayed in a list along with a name an image and other personal context information such as a title and an audio recording of the person s name. By providing images audio recordings of names and other personal context information in the list of people a user of the PIM viewing the recipients of an email message or the attendees of a meeting is provided a means of easily recognizing the people associated with the message item and appreciating its context based upon the identities of the people associated with it.

According to aspects presented herein a method for displaying a list of people associated with a message item in a PIM is provided. In one aspect the people associated with the message item are invitees or attendees of a meeting. In another aspect the people associated with the message item are recipients of an email message. The people associated with the message item in the PIM are identified and a list is generated containing an entry for each person associated with the message item. Each entry includes the name of the corresponding person and an image associated with the person. In one aspect the image associated with each person may be retrieved either from a local PIM storage or from an organization directory accessible by the PIM. The list of people associated with the message item is then displayed in a window of the PIM along with the information regarding the message item.

According to further aspects presented herein each list entry may also include an additional line of personal information associated with the person such as a title and a user interface control that when selected by a user will play an audio recording of the person s name. The additional personal information may be retrieved from the local PIM storage or the organization directory. The audio recording associated with each person may also be retrieved from the local PIM storage or the organization directory. By providing an audio recording of each person s name the pronunciation of the name can be known by each meeting attendee prior to a meeting.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to technologies for displaying a list of people associated with a message item along with images and other personal context information in a PIM application. While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements through the several figures aspects of a methodology for displaying images for people associated with a message item in a PIM will be presented.

Turning now to details will be provided regarding an illustrative operating environment and several software components provided by the embodiments presented herein. In particular illustrates an exemplary system for displaying images and other personal context information for people associated with a message item in a PIM. The system includes a workstation that is connected to a display allowing the workstation to display a user interface UI to a user . The workstation includes or is connected to a speaker through which the workstation may play audio recordings to the user .

It will be appreciated that the user may access and operate the workstation through any number of input and output devices such as a computer monitor keyboard mouse trackball mouse pad stylus or touch screen that may be directly connected to the workstation or remotely connected via a network . It will be further appreciated that the workstation illustrated in may represent any computing device with which a user may interact including a desktop computer notebook laptop tablet computer ultra mobile PC server or handheld device.

In one embodiment a PIM executes on the workstation that allows the user to access and manage message items and other information. For example the PIM may provide access to email voicemail personal contacts organizational contacts meetings and other calendar events and other personal or business data and processes. In one embodiment the PIM is the MICROSOFT OFFICE OUTLOOK messaging and collaboration client from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. It should be appreciated however that the embodiments presented herein may be utilized with PIM application programs from other vendors including but not limited to IBM LOTUS NOTES software from IBM CORP. of Armonk N.Y. NOVELL GROUPWISE software from NOVELL INC. of Waltham Mass. or MICROSOFT ENTOURAGE email and personal information manager also from MICROSOFT CORPORATION.

The PIM is connected through a network to a messaging server executing on a remote server computer . The messaging server provides messaging and other information services to the PIM . In one embodiment the messaging server is the MICROSOFT EXCHANGE SERVER messaging server from MICROSOFT CORPORATION. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the messaging server may be any messaging server known in the art capable of providing the messaging services described herein to the PIM such as IBM LOTUS DOMINO software from IBM CORP. or NOVELL GROUPWISE from NOVELL INC.

The messaging server is further connected to a message store . The message store stores message items for access by users of the PIM . According to embodiments described herein the message items stored in the message store include email messages A N may be collectively referred to herein as email message . Each of the email messages A N includes data identifying one or more recipients A N may be collectively referred to herein as recipient of the email message which will be further illustrated below in . The message store also includes meeting items A N may be collectively referred to herein as meeting item such as meeting invitations meeting reminders or calendar events related to meetings. Each of the meeting items A N includes data identifying one or more attendees A N may be collectively referred to herein as attendee of the meeting.

It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that both email messages A N and meeting items A N may be stored in the message store using a common data table or schema. The message store may also store other items such as text messages voicemails faxes contacts tasks notes non meeting related calendar events and other personal or business data beyond that which is illustrated in . The message store may be located on the server computer or on a remote storage device accessible by the messaging server .

According to embodiments the PIM is connected to a directory server through the network . The directory server also executes on a remote server computer and provides access by the PIM to names descriptions locations and other pertinent information regarding people and resources within an organization. In one embodiment the directory server is the MICROSOFT ACTIVE DIRECTORY directory service from MICROSOFT CORPORATION. It will be further appreciated that the directory server may be any directory server that will allow access by the PIM to information associated with people in the organization including any server known in the art that supports the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP .

The information regarding the people and resources is stored within an organization directory that is accessible by the directory server . In one embodiment the organization directory contains images A N collectively referred to herein as image associated with people in the organization. Each of the images A N may be a digital picture of the associated person or of some other picture or image chosen by the person to visually represent that person in the organization. It will be appreciated that an image may be any graphic image chosen by a person or an administrator to be associated with the person.

In a further embodiment the organization directory also contains audio recordings A N collectively referred to herein as audio recording associated with people in the organization. Each of the audio recordings A N may be used to provide an audible playback of an associated person s name or some other audible message or recording selected by the person or an administrator to represent that person. The audio recordings A N may be played to the user in conjunction with the list of people associated with a message item as will be described in more detail below in regard to .

In one embodiment the audio recordings A N may be stored and managed in the organization directory by a voicemail service for the organization such as the EXCHANGE UNIFIED MESSAGING component of MICROSOFT EXCHANGE SERVER from MICROSOFT CORPORATION. It will be appreciated that the audio recordings A N may be stored in a number of locations other than the organization directory illustrated in including a voicemail store the message store or other location accessible by the PIM .

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art while the directory server and messaging server are illustrated in as executing on a single server computer these components may execute on disparate server computers connected to each other over the network . It will be further appreciated that access to the data and services of the directory server may be provided to the PIM through the messaging server as opposed to direct connections to the PIM as illustrated in .

According to one embodiment the network comprises a LAN. However it will appreciated that the network may comprise a WAN the Internet or other type of network configured to allow the PIM located on the workstation to communicate with the messaging server and directory server executing on the server computer s . It will be further appreciated that many more networks and network connections may be utilized than illustrated in .

The PIM executing on the workstation includes an attendee recipient list module that performs the operations of displaying a list of people which will be described in detail below. In one embodiment the functionality of the attendee recipient list module is provided by the PIM . It will be appreciated however that the attendee recipient list module may be provided as an add in module for the PIM that utilizes an application programming interface API provided by the PIM to access the data from the directory server and messaging server and to display the list of people as part of the UI of the PIM . According to further embodiments presented herein the PIM caches data regarding message items images A N audio recordings A N and other information in a local PIM storage that is also located on the workstation as will be discussed in more detail below in regard to .

As will be described in detail below in regard to the attendee recipient list module determines the attendees A N of the meeting item being displayed by the PIM and generates a list of people that is displayed in a pane of the window . The list of people consists of list entries A E may be collectively referred to herein as list entry for each of the attendees A N. A scroll bar adjacent to the pane allows the user to scroll the list entries A E within the pane to view all attendees A N in the list. Each of the list entries A E includes a name and an image representing the corresponding attendee . According to one embodiment if an image is not available for an attendee the attendee recipient list module displays a placeholder image in the list entry E for that attendee . The placeholder image may be a graphic image that indicates to the user the lack of availability of an image for the attendee or it may simply be an empty or blank graphic.

In one embodiment each of the list entries A E also includes additional personal information associated with the attendee . The additional personal information may be a title of the attendee as illustrated in or any other data regarding the attendee that the attendee recipient list module may display in the list entry A E when generating the list of people . The attendee recipient list module may retrieve the additional personal information from the local PIM storage the message store the organization directory or any other data source available to the PIM . In a further embodiment the attendee recipient list module is configurable so that an organization may specify the source of data displayed as additional personal information in the list entries A E.

According to a further embodiment each of the list entries A E may also include a pronunciation UI control . The attendee recipient list module will determine whether an audio recording related to each of the attendees A N in the list of people is available as will be described in detail below in regard to and display the pronunciation UI control for each of the attendees A N accordingly. The pronunciation UI control is configured to cause the audio recording related to the attendee to be played through the speaker attached to the workstation when the UI control is selected. The pronunciation UI control may be a graphical icon that is selected by the user clicking it with a mouse connected to the workstation. It should be appreciated that although the use of a mouse is described in the examples presented any suitable user input devices may be utilized to allow users to select and interact with the UI controls described herein.

The attendee recipient list module may group the list entries A E in the list of people according to different types of attendees A N of the meeting item as stored in the message store . For example as illustrated in the attendee recipient list module groups the list entries A E into required attendee list entries A D and optional recipient list entries E. The list of people may also contain an organizer and other resources associated with the meeting item . It will be appreciated that the grouping of list entries A E within the list of people will depend upon the functionality of the PIM and the format of the data within the message store .

According to one embodiment the display of the list of people in the window of the PIM is optional. The user is provided with a show attendee list UI control that allows the user to toggle the display of the list of people . The show attendee list UI control may be a graphic icon displayed in a toolbar of the window which toggles the display of the list of people on and off when selected by the user using the mouse. In addition a close UI control may also be provided which closes the pane containing the list of people when selected by the user .

According to one embodiment when displayed in conjunction with one of the email messages A N the list entries B E of the list of people do not include the pronunciation UI controls depicted in . Further the grouping of the list entries B E in the list of people may differ from that illustrated in based upon the types of recipients A N of the email message specified in the message store . For example as illustrated in the attendee recipient list module groups the list entries B E into to recipient list entries B D and cc recipient list entries E. The list of people may also contain bcc recipients.

While the list of people is illustrated in as being displayed in conjunction with a meeting item or email message it will be appreciated that the attendee recipient list module may generate a list of people in conjunction with the display of any type of message item in the message store which is associated with a number of people. Further many variations in the layout of the name image and other information and UI controls displayed in the list of people will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and this application is intended to cover any such variations beyond those illustrated in .

Referring now to additional details will be provided regarding the embodiments presented herein. In particular is a flow diagram showing one method for displaying a list of people associated with a message item. It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in a different order than those described herein.

The routine begins at operation where the attendee recipient list module determines the people associated with the message item being displayed by the PIM . As described above this may be attendees A N of one of the meeting items A N recipients A N of one of the email messages A N or some other group of people associated with a message item in the message store . In one embodiment the attendee recipient list module retrieves a unique identifier for each person associated with the message item. For example the attendee recipient list module may retrieve the email addresses of all attendees A N of the currently displayed meeting item . Each attendee email address may uniquely identify a person associated with the meeting item to be included in the list of people . This may be accomplished by a calling an API of the PIM to retrieve data regarding the currently displayed message item. In another embodiment the attendee recipient list module may retrieve the data from the message item stored in the message store . It will be appreciated that the manner by which the attendee recipient list module may determine the unique identifiers for each person associated with a message item will vary depending upon the type of the message item as well as the PIM in which the message item is being displayed.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the attendee recipient list module locates an image for each person determined to be associated with the message item as will be described in more detail below in regard to . The routine then proceeds to operation where the attendee recipient list module locates an audio recording for each person associated with the message item as described in detail below in regard to . In one embodiment once an image and audio recording have been located for each person associated with the message item the routine proceeds to operation .

In another embodiment the attendee recipient list module executes the respective retrieval operations and for the image and audio recording on background threads. The attendee recipient list module will display a temporary placeholder image or blank image in the list of people for the person and no pronunciation UI control is displayed. When the image retrieval operation executing on the background thread is completed the attendee recipient list module will update the image in the list of people with the retrieved image corresponding to the person. Similarly once the audio recording retrieval operation has completed the attendee recipient list module will add a pronunciation UI control to the list of people for that person if an audio recording corresponding to the person was found.

At operation the attendee recipient list module displays the list of people associated with the message item currently displayed in the PIM . The attendee recipient list module retrieves the name and optionally the additional personal information for each person associated with the message item from the PIM the local PIM storage the message store or the organization directory utilizing the unique identifier identified for each person in operation . The attendee recipient list module then uses the name image from operation and additional personal information to render a list entry A E in the list of people for each person associated with the message item. If it was determined that an audio recording exists for a person in operation the attendee recipient list module displays a pronunciation UI control in the corresponding list entry A E and configures the control to play the audio recording when selected by the user .

When a data item related to a person such as image or audio recording is retrieved by the PIM it will be temporarily cached in the local PIM storage for subsequent access. The data items in the cache are identified using the same unique identifier determined by the attendee recipient list module to identify the person associated with the message item such as the email address. It will be appreciated that the duration and method of caching various data items in the local PIM storage will vary based upon the PIM being executed on the workstation .

The attendee recipient list module utilizes the unique identifier determined for the person in operation to search the local PIM storage for an image . At operation if an image related to the person is located in the local PIM storage the routine proceeds to operation where the image is retrieved from the local PIM storage to be utilized by the attendee recipient list module to display the list of people . The routine then proceeds from operation to operation where the routine returns.

If at operation an image related to the person is not located in the local PIM storage then the routine proceeds to operation where the attendee recipient list module accesses the organization directory to determine if an image for the person is available. As described above in regard to the attendee recipient list module may access the organization directory through a direct request to the directory server or requests for information from the organization directory may be processed through the messaging server depending upon the PIM messaging server and directory server being utilized. The attendee recipient list module utilizes the unique identifier determined for the person associated with the message item to search the organization directory for an image related to that person.

At operation if an image related to the person is located in the organization directory the routine proceeds to operation where the image is retrieved from the organization directory to be utilized by the attendee recipient list module to display the list of people . The routine then proceeds from operation to operation where the routine returns. If an image related to the person is not located in the organization directory then the routine proceeds from operation to operation where a placeholder image or blank image is substituted for the image to be displayed in the list of people as illustrated above in . From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the routine returns.

If at operation an audio recording related to the person is located in the local PIM storage the routine proceeds to operation where the attendee recipient list module adds a pronunciation UI control to the list entry A E for the person in the list of people . The attendee recipient list module also configures the pronunciation UI control to play the audio recording from the local PIM storage when selected by the user. If however an audio recording is not located in the local PIM storage the routine proceeds from operation to operation where the attendee recipient list module accesses the organization directory to determine if an audio recording related to the person is available. Just as described above in regard to operation the attendee recipient list module may access the organization directory through a direct request to the directory server or requests for information from the organization directory may be processed through the messaging server depending upon the PIM messaging server and directory server being utilized. The attendee recipient list module utilizes the unique identifier determined for the person to search the organization directory for an audio recording related to the person.

At operation if an audio recording related to the person is located in the organization directory then the routine proceeds to operation where the attendee recipient list module adds a pronunciation UI control to the list entry for the person in the list of people . The attendee recipient list module further configures the pronunciation UI control to retrieve and play the audio recording from the organization directory . If an audio recording related to the person is not located in the organization directory the routine proceeds from operation to operation where the attendee recipient list module ensures a pronunciation UI control is not displayed in the list entry A E for the person in the list of people . From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the routine returns.

The computer architecture shown in includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer also includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system application programs and other program modules which are described in greater detail herein.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available computer storage media that can be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer readable media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by the computer .

According to various embodiments the computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the network . The computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display a speaker a printer or other type of output device.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked desktop laptop or server computer. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store the PIM directory server or messaging server each of which was described in detail above in regard to . The mass storage device and the RAM may also store other types of program modules or data.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for displaying a list of people associated with a message item along with images and other personal context information in a PIM application are provided herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

