---

title: Information transmitter with variable pulse width encoding
abstract: A communication device is provided for transmitting information incorporated into at least one message packet. The device includes components for encoding the message packet as a signal, which is afterwards transmitted and analyzed. The encoder assigns the message packet to correspond to a specific pulse width. The transmitter sends the signal across a channel. The processor parses the signal as corresponding to the specific pulse width subsequently decoded to obtain the message packet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08891355&OS=08891355&RS=08891355
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08891355
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130430
---
The invention is a Continuation claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety patent application Ser. No. 12 657 877 filed Jan. 28 2010 and issued as Statutory Invention Registration H002274 which pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 61 207 237 with a filing date of Jan. 30 2009 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to data encoding for information transmission and more particularly to encoding using variable pulse width phase frequency and or amplitude.

Data communications between a Host and a Client may include using a modulator demodulator modem which converts digital information to analog information and vice versa. Typically the modem performs pulse conversion of binary data from higher layers. The binary data may reside at the Physical layer of the seven layer Open Systems Interface OSI model for physical linkage between the Host and Client for transmitted and received data. These seven layers include a OSI Layer 1 Physical b OSI Layer 2 Data Link c 081 Layer 3 Network d OSI Layer 4 Transport e OSI Layer 5 Session f OSI Layer 6 Presentation and g OSI Layer 7 Application.

Current transmission technologies use standard communication exchange protocols which are based on binary transmission in which for positive logic a 1 is represented as positive voltage and a 0 is represented as no voltage. The transmission is based on a system clock. Binary transmission over wire and wireless media has been exploited for many years.

Various exemplary embodiments provide techniques for highly secure short and long message communications. These techniques provide a secure link that is undetectable by standard protocol analyzers and is sufficiently random to satisfy contemporary encryption standards. In one case the pulse widths of 1 s and 0 s may be altered to render the information contained therein to be undetectable even within binary based formats.

Conventional data encoding techniques yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular the use of variable width pulses exemplified in this disclosure because it is the easiest to understand facilitates secure communication. For example changing coding and rotating keys reduces transmission detectability.

Various exemplary embodiments provide for variable pulse widths to encode a binary or other type of signal. Information can be incorporated into at least one message packet to provide operations that include encoding the message packet as a signal transmitting and analyzing the signal to be decoded to obtain the transmitted message packet. The encoding operation assigns the message packet to correspond to a specific pulse width. The signal is transmitted across a channel to a recipient. The analyzing operation by the recipient parses the signal as corresponding to the specific pulse width which is then decoded to obtain the message packet.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Eavesdropping only needs to intercept data along a communications line and decode them. For various exemplary embodiments the eavesdropper also needs to observe the signal characteristic and map it to its binary equivalent rendering the deciphering task more difficult.

The techniques described herein relate to data encoding for information transmission and more particularly to encoding information using characteristics of electrical signals such as pulse width amplitude e.g. either voltage or current phase frequency or combinations thereof. Thus a single variation in pulse width phase frequency or amplitude can be associated with large strings of information or separate symbols without the use of long strings of bits to characterize a symbol.

In general the more information as bits that can be encoded into a signal characteristic the greater the efficiency of the technique. Software parses blocks of information into repeating binary patterns or strings and stores the results into a codebook for storage in memory.

Various exemplary embodiments describe a process of information transmission based on pulse width duration to reduce signal exchange overhead. The type of information transmission described herein is based on the electrical or analog characteristics and in particular to the time duration of transmitted and received pulses. This process for amplifying pulsed data enables increase in the data rate above standard data transmission rates.

The procedure described for the exemplary embodiments enables peers in a multi drop network to communicate via a synchronous asynchronous serial variable protocol. Handshaking and control signals may have specified pulse widths recognizable only by the participants in the network. Each participant possesses a protocol key for access. The protocol may be used for identification and afterwards enable standard communication. Alternatively the protocol may be used singly such as by constantly changing protocols according to Host and User keys.

Binary data may be transmitted as clear text such as in American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII for initialization. However the binary data transmitted need not be in ASCII. Any binary data transmitted and received should be understood by the transmitter and receiver. The binary data can be encoded and decoded to a secondary layer for mapping to ASCII. The techniques described herein may be performed by a single ended or differential circuit. As those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize other media may be used to implement these techniques including serial full and half duplex parallel communication circuits radio frequency RF wireless and optical media. Groups or strings of information may be collected together with variable pulse widths. These collections may also be segmented and reassembled at the receiver according to a code key or other identifier.

Typically binary information may be transmitted as 1 s and 0 s. A binary 1 would be a high level voltage for a period of several master clock cycles and a binary 0 would be for example a negative or no voltage for several cycles. This is known as bit timing.

For the purposes of this disclosure the timing restriction for identifying i.e. determining what constitutes a 1 or 0 may be relaxed to enable variable time duration of the electrical pulses. The duration of each pulse may constitute a larger amount of information. Transfer of information can be reduced to the time required to transmit a single pulse.

Algorithms at higher layers may be used to encode and decode information. The transmission may generally be described for baseband or modulated signaling at the physical layer including wireless transmission of the international standards organization ISO model but alternatively may be implemented at higher layers also as a separate stack .

The techniques herein describe a hybrid of baseband and bandpass transmission. Various exemplary embodiments can also be considered as both an information compression and channel coding method. By varying a characteristic of a signal such as its duration bandwidth amplitude frequency or phase binary data can be encoded to include groups of bits into a single characteristic of a varying signal characteristic. For example a long string of binary data can be encoded into pulse duration bandwidth amplitude frequency phase or any combination of thereof. The process applies to any type of data transmission which includes wired and wireless communications. These are typically grouped into baseband and passband communication systems.

Baseband signals employ the entire bandwidth of the communications channel for a single signal. Typical baseband signals have names such as RZ Return to Zero AMI Alternate Mark Inversion NRZ Non Return to zero Phase Encoded and Multi Level Binary. Baseband refers to the band of frequencies delivered by a source. Baseband channels are suitable for transmission over a pair of wires or coaxial cable such as Ethernet.

Passband systems are characterized by manipulation of the information in the frequency domain. Passband transmissions combine multiple signals using different frequencies on the same communications channel simultaneously uplink and downlink . Baseband information can be shifted to any frequency desired by use of an appropriate carrier. The baseband signal occupies a specific bandwidth centered on the modulation frequency. Other passband methods vary the characteristics of the carrier signal itself as in modulation by amplitude AM phase PM or frequency FM in which the binary data are mixed i.e. combined with the baseband data.

The Roman alphabet contains only twenty six letters comparable to other non pictographic symbols. Written communication typically employs distinctions between capital and small or alternatively ending and non ending forms as well as punctuation and numerals. The extended ASCII table contains only 127 distinct characters. Sentence strings also can be transmitted and a type of grammatical glue may be used to translate the strings such as used in standard spelling and grammatical checkers i.e. when recombining data.

In extended ASCII transmission the character a has a decimal equivalent of 97 and a binary equivalent of 01100001 which is 8 bits. In other words the character a takes 8 bits to transmit. A single pulse pulse duration is used throughout this disclosure because this represents the simplest manifestation of the concept can be assigned to i.e. represent the character a . This is illustrated in as block diagrams for a transmitter and a receiver .

Within the transmitter a serial or parallel stream from higher layers i.e. as described in the OSI model is placed in I O memory commonly referred to as an I O buffer . In simplest terms the buffer can be described as an M row by N column matrix repository. An analytical parsing operation enables the buffer to be parsed for repeating binary patterns. The parsing identifies each ASCII bit stream by its corresponding letter and position at . The process assigns each binary pattern at to be associated with a signal characteristic such as pulse width. The pulse may then be transmitted over the channel wire or wireless to the receiver . The received signal can be converted to digital by an analog to digital converter ADC and converted to its original binary pattern at .

In general there are two different ways of looking at initialization of codebooks Static and Dynamic. Static Initiation provides the simplest method of codebook pattern storage and includes the base vocabulary i.e. ASCII and extended ASCII which contains all the symbols of the language and frequently occurring phrases and other constructs used in that language which are incorporated into the codebook or base vocabulary of the host transmitter and receiver. A Universal Synchronous Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter USART represents the simplest example of a static codebook in this case converting serial data to binary strings that are then converted to ASCII characters.

Dynamic Initiation provides a more enhanced method in which the I O buffer is parsed to determine repeating binary patterns in the data. The buffer may be parsed for any length binary pattern but larger repeating patterns can be preferable. There are numerous pattern searching algorithms such as the Boyer Moore string search algorithm and more recently the Franek Jennings and Smyth FJS algorithm. The static codebook may be included as part of this method 

The search process is further illustrated in as a flowchart diagram for transmission and reception. Initially after start at the process stores binary data to be transferred in an I O memory buffer at . The process parses the data at analyzer using a pattern matching algorithm for repeating binary patterns. The patterns searched for can be of varying length but larger repeating patterns are more advantageous because a larger quantity of data can be encoded into a single electrical characteristic. The search at analyzer may start with 126 bits or larger bit patterns followed by 64 bits 32 bits 16 bits and finally 8 bits representing the ASCII default width. In addition a static codebook can already be available for codewords that contain the extended ASCII binary codes and frequently occurring patterns and phrases in the alphabet language transmitted at .

As each binary pattern is determined the process transmits the signal at in binary from the transmitter to the receiver . Initially the transmitter may send or otherwise provide the codebook strings in clear text to the receiver . The transmitter can store the binary pattern associated with the signal characteristic at an address in memory. The associated electrical characteristic is converted to binary and saved as a codeword in the receiver s codebook as a binary pattern. The receiver can also retransmit the signal characteristic back to the transmitter and remap the transmitted information. This provides equalization between the transmitter and receiver .

The receiver compares the ASCII stored clear text message to the received binary transmission to verify accuracy. Directly after transmission of the binary pattern a signal characteristic is also transmitted to the receiver . Thus each binary pattern may be assigned a separate signal characteristic e.g. a different pulse width . Multiple bit patterns can be transmitted in this manner. The transmitter preferably transmits each codeword in binary consecutively so that the receiver has a record of the transmitted binary data for comparison.

At the receiver the transmitted binary pattern may be stored in an I O memory buffer on the receiver and the pulse or alternative signal characteristic is digitized using an ADC thereby performing equalization on the analog input signal. The digitized pattern may be associated with the binary pattern transmitted. In general these digital patterns may not be the same but a one to one correspondence between the two signals should preferably to be maintained for proper decoding. In the other direction the heuristic is the same for half and full duplex.

The next step starts at the beginning of the original I O buffer and begin transmission . Transmission may preferably be started by comparing the binary information to be transmitted to stored codewords starting with the largest binary patterns which for this example are 128 bit patterns. All 128 bit patterns which were assigned codewords are searched in the codebook table. If a match is found the corresponding pulse can be transmitted. If no such 128 bit match occurs the next smallest binary bit pattern may be searched for at the beginning of the I O buffer .

This process continues until only 8 bit patterns remain which is the default ASCII width. Upon transmission of the pulse the operation concludes at the last matching binary pattern and the process repeats. As codewords leave the I O buffer new binary data min 128 bits can be entered into the I O buffer for comparison to existing codewords. If no match is found for greater than 8 bits more data may be entered.

The process has a reduction relationship to the Shannon s Capacity Theorem. Large groups of bits can be encoded into a signal characteristic such as pulse duration phase amplitude or frequency. The binary message transmitted can be treated as binary blocks of information.

The Capacity Theorem can be stated in terms of channel capacity C in relation to binary source rate R as log 1 or 1 3.322 log 1 in base 10 2 where

Gaussian Channel Capacity has two interpretations. The negative statement states for source rate exceeding capacity R C and the number of equally likely messages being large M 2 2 that the probability of error approaches unity i.e. 100 error for every possible set of M transmitter signals. For source rate less than capacity R

To examine the channel capacity s relation to various embodiments multiple patterns of bits can be converted to a single equivalent pulse width or other signal characteristic such as a phase difference. This enables an increase in channel capacity by either reducing the time interval from T to T and or increasing the number of bits from k to k such that 3 where prime denotes equivalent values. Hence the source rate R can be increased without expanding the bandwidth required by the channel. Because R C channel capacity has been increased using the same bandwidth.

The pulse width can be decreased until reaching the minimum pulse width allowable which is dictated by the capacity relation in eqn. 1 . For large bandwidths W the equation for channel capacity becomes 1.44 4 where represents capacity limit interval. Thus eqn. 4 indicates that the capacity C and source rate R depend only on signal power and the power spectral density.

Moreover the capacity limit interval can be increased by altering the frequency range of the bandwidth W. If T and T and k are both increased so that the equality is maintained from k T original the bandwidth being inversely proportional to r shifts to a lower occupied signal bandwidth for an equivalent amount of information. Thus the bandwidth required can also be reduced with longer duration signals.

The actual pulse shapes need not be rectangular which does not represent the most efficient waveform to transmit. Rather other pulse shapes such as sinc raised cosine etc. may be employed to produce more bandwidth efficient waveforms. Because a single integrated circuit chip cannot currently produce all of the necessary pulse widths the circuitry to create the pulses may be grouped and subgrouped into circuits to create pulses of different temporal widths such as by a digital to analog converter DAC .

The transmitted pulses may be received through frequency bandpass filtering. This technique may be based on the bandwidth of the transmitted signals frequency domain representation e.g. a Fourier transform of the transmitted time domain pulse. In particular the normalized sinc function for digital signal processing and communication theory may be expressed as

The sinc pulse represents a substantially more effective bandwidth efficient waveform than rectangular. provides time and frequency domain plots illustrating the sinc pulse waveform and its Fourier Transform FT . The sinc pulse requires only half the bandwidth of a corresponding rectangular pulse. The sinc time plot features time t as the abscissa and voltage in volts as the ordinate . A sinc waveform has a peak voltage A at zero time and can be expressed as A sinc 2 t . This expression provides positive voltage amplitude over pulse width r bounded by 2 . The frequency domain plot features frequency as the abscissa and voltage per wavelength as the ordinate producing a rectangular waveform having an amplitude of A 2 between bounds 1 2 and zero elsewhere.

Thus as the pulse duration increases the corresponding bandwidth required for the same pulse duration decreases. The bandwidth decreases from 250 MHz for pulse widths ranging from 2 ns to 4 ns to roughly 125 MHz for pulse widths ranging from 4 ns to 6 ns a 50 decrease in bandwidth. Selective pulse shaping may be used to obtain desired bandwidth or other pulse width characteristics. Thus the desired bandwidth can be obtained within a specified bandwidth for the channel s Signal Power to Noise ratio being maintained within tolerances.

In terms of phase amplitude and frequency variation the concept is similar. A large number of bits are assigned to a signal characteristic. Usually phase and amplitude are combined in a method known as Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM . Variations with frequency include Frequency Modulation methods. Bandwidth efficiency increases with increasing bits assigned to a signal characteristic. Generally assigning more bits to a signal characteristic provides the true gain in these types of systems.

Because the electronics on receivers and transmitters are clock based and edge triggered a different method of acquiring the pulse information is necessary. In this case a very fast ADC may be necessary for practical sampling periods e.g. on the order of pico second ps or femto second fs . Although for longer period pulses this restriction may be relaxed. In any case the Nyquist relation f 2 fmust be maintained where f 1 tor sampling frequency such that tis sampling time interval and fis the highest frequency of the signal. Because so much information is contained in any one signal characteristic extremely fast buffering and decoding methods are necessary. The time between signal characteristic changes have to be weighed carefully against the capabilities of the decoding mechanisms.

The codeword list may be refined by reuse and reassignment to obviate the limit on the number of signal variations possible. Reducing the number of pulses necessary to communicate can be accomplished by allowing pulse or parameter reuse. That is software or firmware can transfer information in segments of for example one hundred codewords which contain one hundred blocks of information.

To transfer the next block of information the pulse width or signal parameter associated with the meaning of a pattern or codebook entry can be changed. The transmitter can transmit the change to the receiver. Subsequently the pulse widths or other signal parameter can be reassigned to different codewords. Data compression may benefit under conditions involving an excessively large number of codewords. The compressed data can also be transmitted to the parsing algorithm enabling even higher data transfer rates.

There are two basic ways to design the channel coder and protocol for an error correcting system automatic repeat request ARQ and forward error correction FEC . In ARQ the transmitter sends the data along with an error detection code that the receiver uses to check for errors and request retransmission of erroneous data. The receiver may send an acknowledge signal for no errors and a not acknowledge signal when errors have occurred and request retransmission.

In FEC the transmitter encodes the data with an error correcting code that the receiver uses to decode the information sent into the most likely transited sequence. One typical method used to perform FEC is called Hamming Coding. Producing a Hamming code requires creating a Hamming Generator Matrix and an inverse generator matrix on the received data. Cyclic Redundancy checks are also a commonly used method to detect errors.

The signals transmitted have varying parameters such as amplitude duration phase and frequency but the information may initially be in binary and converted to binary data at the receiver. Because the codewords are initially sent in binary either FEC or ARQ may be used directly on the on the binary data. The variable signal characteristic data can be converted to an analog signal and digitized to convert them back to their original sense in binary. The binary data are what decisions are made upon based on correct or incorrect decoding. If FEC the best match is selected. If ARQ is used the receiver sends an or based on the data received.

Generally the type of error correction depends on whether the data are lossless or lossy in character. Lossless means that there must be an exact match between the transmitted and received data. Lossy means that some data can be lost without serious consequences. For example video or voice information can tolerate nontrivial loss in resolution without producing serious communications or resolution problems.

For necessary lossless transmission without determining an exact match to the transmitted signal in the receiver s codebook a retransmit request can be issued from . If some error can be tolerated the closest match can be accepted. In both cases the initial codewords matching binary patterns should be converted to Grey code. Grey codes reduce the largest possible size of the binary error and may be reversed at the receiver using the inverse algorithm used to create them at the transmitter. Probability assignments generated at the receiver based on an algorithm which determine the most probable pattern made in decoding may also aid in that effort.

Because modems utilize modulation onto a wired or wireless channel the previously discussed heuristic applies. QAM provides an exemplary type of modulation highly amenable to the techniques employed herein. QAM provides a form of modulation that represents digital data as variations in the amplitude and phase of a carrier wave. QAM can carry large numbers of bits symbol to identify a position in signal space. QAM is used in numerous types of systems such as ADSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines and Cable Modems.

Upon completion the codewords found can then be transmitted in standard binary form by a transducer that represents the binary patterns for future transmissions. The transducer can employ QAM or alternate Phase based modulation. Upon conversion of the binary pattern to an analog symbol by the QAM transducer the carrier frequency fcan be selected for modulation to translate the symbol into the desired frequency band. For example the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN occupies a carrier bandwidth from 1 kHz to 2 kHz. The information is then transmitted to the channel .

The minimum bandwidth relates to channel capacity C can be evaluated. The channel capacity of a white band limited Gaussian channel is log 1 5 where C is the channel capacity in bits per second B is the channel bandwidth in Hertz S N is the ratio of the mean square signal to the mean square noise power.

Recall that for M number of codewords can be expressed in terms of bit rate as logM RT k such that M 2 2 which can be set to be constant. Moreover modified M 2 such that the corresponding source rate can be expressed as log 1 6 where reduced pulse width enables increase in source rate thereby effectively increasing channel capacity.

For example transmission of an entire codeword set one hundred times of 65 536 codewords that are 64 bits wide per codeword the total number of bits to transmit is R C 100 64 65 536 419 430 400 bits second. For signal to noise ratio S N being one hundred dB such that from eqn. 5 B 419 430 400 log 101 63 MHz for un encoded data bandwidth.

With coding each 64 bit packet can be reduced to a single variation of signal characteristics over the same period. Thus channel capacity computation yields R C 65 536 100 or 6.5536 10 the 64 bits being replaced by a variable width symbol. Then 6 6.5536 10 log 101 0.9 MHz thereby reducing necessary bandwidth by two orders of magnitude. For 8 bits per codeword this rate becomes 419 430 400 8 5.24288 10 dividing the channel capacity by eight rather than sixty four .

Shannon s Theorem applies even for the 8 bit length with only 2distinct non repeating codewords are available. As such bandwidth reduces from unencoded 63 MHz to B 52428800 6.67 7.86 MHz. Raising the number of bits to encode into a single variation increases the bandwidth gains e.g. replacing from 8 bit with 64 bit reduces bandwidth by 7 MHz.

For a found match at the process stores a binary pattern corresponding to the match into a secondary codebook which can be altered according to the base codebook in memory as new entries are added. The secondary codebook has variable size and can be stored in software rather than being hardcoded. The pattern in the secondary codebook can be written to a decoder that selects a specific pulse width with a pulse generator e.g. semiconductor or laser diode .

Combinatorial logic can be employed to select a gain parameter or alternatively a frequency parameter for transmission via a channel to a receiver. These parameters can be adjusted by appropriate coefficients. This is known as the semiconductor method SC of signal generation. Alternatively the process can at instantiate subroutines to transfer the binary sequence to a DAC to produce the selected pulse width for transmission via the channel to submit to a mixer that supplies the receiver.

In summary the method of information transmission process described herein for sending a message packet from a host platform to a recipient includes the operations for encoding the message packet as corresponding to a specific pulse width transmitting a signal having the specific pulse width across a channel analyzing the signal as corresponding to the specific pulse width and decoding the specific pulse width to obtain the message packet.

In various exemplary embodiments the encoding operation further includes assigning a code value from a codelist to the message packet correlating the code value to a pulse generator within a pulse generator bank and generating the signal having the specific pulse width by the pulse generator. Moreover the code value can be binary and or include assigning a coefficient to a generated pulse width produced by the pulse generator and multiplying the coefficient to the generated pulse width to obtain the specific pulse width.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

