---

title: Information collection, storage, and sharing platform
abstract: A mobile terminal collects information items identified by a user of the mobile terminal, the collected information items having different formats of data that are to be rendered by different applications at the mobile terminal. The mobile terminal synchronizes itself with the remote server so that the user can access the plurality of information items stored at the remote server from another terminal. Next, the mobile terminal displays some information items in a chronological order. In response to detecting a user selection of one information item, the mobile terminal determines whether data associated with the information item is in the mobile terminal or not. If the data is present in the mobile terminal, the mobile terminal then renders the data on the mobile terminal. Otherwise, the mobile terminal first downloads the data from the remote server and then renders the data on the mobile terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276883&OS=09276883&RS=09276883
owner: TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY LIMITED
number: 09276883
owner_city: Shenzhen, Guangdong Province
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20130428
---
This Application is a United States National Stage Application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Patent Application Serial No. PCT CN2013 075008 filed on Apr. 28 2013 the contents of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety.

The disclosed implementations relate generally to an Internet based electronic messaging service system and in particular to an information collection storage and sharing platform based on the electronic messaging service system.

More and more people use their mobile terminals e.g. smartphones to access information such as reading news listening to songs watching videos etc. and exchange information with others such as texting sending receiving emails etc. But there is no application or service on a smartphone that allows a user to easily revisit all different types of information that s he has accessed before. For example if a user wants to listen to a favorite song again s he has to start a music player to find and replay the song. If the user wants to re read a web page on a website s he has to restart a web browser and enter the address e.g. URL of the web page through the web browser. In other words the user cannot easily store and manage different types of information that s he may revisit through a single universal user interface.

In accordance with some implementations described below a method for managing information items is performed at a mobile terminal having memory and one or more processors that is communicatively coupled to a remote server. The mobile terminal collects a plurality of information items identified by a user of the mobile terminal the collected information items having different formats of data that are to be rendered by different applications at the mobile terminal. The mobile terminal synchronizes itself with the remote server so that the user can access the plurality of information items stored at the remote server from another terminal. Next the mobile terminal displays at least a subset of the plurality of information items in a chronological order on its display. In response to detecting a user selection of one of the displayed information items the mobile terminal determines whether data associated with the user selected information item is in the mobile terminal or not. If the data associated with the user selected information item is in the mobile terminal the mobile terminal then renders the data on the mobile terminal by e.g. invoking an application designed for the data. Otherwise the mobile terminal downloads the data from the remote server and then renders the data on the mobile terminal using the application.

In accordance with some implementations described below a mobile terminal for managing information items is provided. The mobile terminal includes one or more processors and memory for storing one or more programs. The programs when executed by the one or more processors cause the mobile terminal to perform the following operations collecting a plurality of information items identified by a user of the mobile terminal wherein the plurality of information items have different formats of data that are to be rendered by different applications at the mobile terminal synchronizing the mobile terminal with the remote server so that the user can access the plurality of information items stored at the remote server from another terminal displaying at least a subset of the plurality of information items in a chronological order in response to detecting a user selection of one of the displayed information items determining whether data associated with the user selected information item is in the mobile terminal or not if the data associated with the user selected information item is in the mobile terminal rendering the data on the mobile terminal and if the data associated with the user selected information item is not currently in the mobile terminal downloading the data from the remote server and then rendering the data on the mobile terminal.

In accordance with some implementations described below a method for storing data associated with an information item identified by a mobile terminal is performed at a server having memory and one or more processors. The server receives a request to upload an information item from the mobile terminal the request including an identifier of the information item and determines whether there is an existing copy of the information item stored at the server. If there is an existing copy of the information item stored at the server the server identifies an address of the existing copy of the information item at the server and returns a response to the mobile terminal the response including the an address of the existing copy of the information item at the server so that the mobile terminal associates the information item at the mobile terminal with the address and provides an update indicating that the information item has been updated to the server. If there is no existing copy of the information item stored at the server the server returns a negative response to the mobile terminal so that the mobile terminal decides whether or not to upload the information item based at least in part on a size of the information item.

Although the versatility of a smartphone type client device makes it a good choice for managing different types of information accessed by a user for future use the storage and processing capacity of an individual client device can barely meet all the needs from a user of the client device. As shown in the client devices and are communicatively coupled to a messaging server which supports the client devices to manage the information accessed by users of the client devices. For convenience does not necessarily include all the components used for supporting the messaging server to provide messaging services. Rather focuses on those components used for managing information items accessed by different users of the messaging server . For example the messaging server includes a frontend module for receiving information items uploaded into the messaging server by users of respective client devices and pushing information items requested by users of different client devices. The user account database stores identifiers of different user accounts of the messaging server such that each information item uploaded into the messaging server is associated with a user account. Note that it is possible that the same information item e.g. a song may be associated with multiple user accounts if this one has been collected by multiple users. Information items collected by different users as well as associated metadata used for managing the information items e.g. the author of an information item the publication and collection timestamp of the information item the type subject and synopsis of the information item etc. are saved in the stored information item database . Exemplary information items include an image a web page a URL a text message a text document an audio stream a video stream a geographical location etc.

As will be described below a user of a mobile terminal collects information items from different sources local or remote and has them stored in the messaging server by performing a predefined operation e.g. a finger tap on the information items. Note that the term source in the present application refers to an origin of an information item collected by the user which may be a remote web server that hosts a web page that the user likes to collect or a music player application running on the mobile terminal that plays a song the user wants to collect. One purpose of storing the information items at the messaging server is to make them available to a user if s he wants to revisit one of them sometime in the future. To support this feature the messaging server includes a data search module for searching the stored information item database for information item s that satisfies the search terms provided by a user of the messaging server from a mobile terminal. In some implementations the messaging server further includes a data processing module for processing some information items uploaded into the stored information item database . For example the data processing module can recognize texts in an image or convert an audio stream into a text file. In either case a non text based information item e.g. an image or an audio stream can be indexed by the texts identified in the information item so that the information item may be returned to a user if it satisfies the user provided search terms. As will be described below there is a many to many mapping relationship of which a one to one mapping relationship is a special case between a user account in the user account database and an information item in the stored information item database . In some implementations in response to a user s request for information items collected by the user from a mobile terminal the messaging server identifies the information items associated with the user based on a mapping relationship between the user s user account and the information items and returns them to the requesting user at the mobile terminal.

It should be noted that the modules databases and models in the messaging server describe above in connection with may be implemented on a single computer server or distributed among multiple computer servers that are connected by a computer network. Although a specific hardware configuration may affect the performance of the messaging server the implementation of the present application is not dependent on a particular hardware configuration.

Memory may include high speed random access memory and may also include non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices flash memory devices or other non volatile solid state memory devices. The processors run or execute various software programs and or sets of instructions stored in the memory to perform various functions for the client device and to process data.

RF circuitry converts electrical signals to from electromagnetic signals and communicates with communications networks and other communications devices via the electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry may include well known circuitry for performing these functions including but not limited to an antenna system an RF transceiver one or more amplifiers a tuner one or more oscillators a digital signal processor a CODEC chipset a subscriber identity module SIM card memory and so forth. RF circuitry may communicate with networks such as the Internet an intranet and or a wireless network such as a cellular telephone network a wireless local area network WLAN and or a metropolitan area network MAN and other devices by wireless communication.

Audio circuitry speaker and microphone provide an audio interface between a user and the client device . Audio circuitry receives audio data from the communication buses converts the audio data to an electrical signal and transmits the electrical signal to speaker . Speaker converts the electrical signal to human audible sound waves. Audio circuitry also receives electrical signals converted by microphone from sound waves. Audio circuitry converts the electrical signal to audio data and transmits the audio data to the processors for processing.

I O subsystem may include a display controller for controlling the touch sensitive display to implement e.g. virtual or soft buttons and one or more soft keyboards. The touch sensitive display provides an input interface and an output interface between the device and a user. Display controller receives and or sends electrical signals from to the touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display displays visual output to the user. The visual output may include graphics text icons video and any combination thereof collectively termed graphics . In some implementations some or all of the visual output may correspond to user interface objects.

The touch sensitive display has a touch sensitive surface sensor or set of sensors that accepts input from the user based on haptic and or tactile contact. The touch sensitive display and the display controller along with any associated modules and or sets of instructions in memory detect contact and any movement or breaking of the contact on the touch sensitive surface and converts the detected contact into interaction with user interface objects e.g. one or more soft keys icons web pages or images that are displayed on the touch sensitive display .

The sensors in the client device may include one or more proximity sensors for turning off and disabling the touch sensitive display when the client device is placed near the user s ear e.g. when the user is making a phone call . The client device may also include one or more accelerometers for detecting the movement of the client device a magnetometer for determining the orientation of the client device a GPS receiver for obtaining the geographical location information of the client device and one or more image sensors for capturing still images or video streams.

As shown in the program components stored in the memory include operating system communication module or set of instructions contact motion module or set of instructions orientation proximity module or set of instructions speaker control module or set of instructions and device global internal state including one or more of active application state indicating which applications if any are currently active display state indicating what applications views or other information occupy various regions of the touch sensitive display and sensor state including information obtained from the mobile terminal s various sensors .

Operating system further includes various software components and or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks e.g. memory management storage device control power management etc. and facilitates communication between various hardware and software components. Communication module facilitates communication with other devices over the communication buses and also includes various software components for handling data received by RF circuitry . Contact motion module may detect contact with the touch sensitive display in conjunction with the display controller and motions by the contact. Contact motion module includes various software components for performing various operations related to detection of contact such as determining if contact has occurred e.g. detecting a finger down event determining if there is movement of the contact and tracking the movement across the touch sensitive surface e.g. detecting one or more finger dragging events and determining if the contact has ceased e.g. detecting a finger up event or a break in contact . Orientation proximity module determines the orientation of the mobile terminal and its proximity to other objects e.g. the user s ear or finger and provides this information for use in various applications e.g. to telephone module . The speaker control module controls the operation of the speaker in accordance with the output signals from different sensors .

Applications stored in the memory may include the following modules or sets of instructions or a subset or superset thereof telephone module camera module web browser module video player module music player module GPS module and messaging client module . In some implementations the messaging client module provides an application programming interface API for other applications to interact with the messaging client module in conjunction with collecting different information items identified by the user of the client device using the messaging client module and having them uploaded into the messaging server . For example the messaging client module may include an identifier of the user of the client device which is used to associate the information items with the user as described above in connection with a mobile device identifier for binding the client device to the user s account at the messaging server one or more cached information items which may be downloaded onto the client device from a web server or the messaging server and a synchronization module for synchronizing the client device with the messaging server according to a predefined schedule.

As will be described below a user of the client device e.g. a smartphone invokes the messaging client module for not only exchanging messages with another user but also collecting those information items of potential interest to the user into the messaging server for future revisit. The information item collection process may happen at many different applications running on the smartphone. For example the user may mark a web page visited by the user through the web browser module as being collected. In response the messaging client module identifies either the URL of the web page or the content of the web page or both and has them uploaded into the messaging server . The user may choose to collect a favorite video stream using the messaging client module . At least in part depending on the size of the collected information item the messaging client module chooses an appropriate network interface for uploading the information item to e.g. reduce the usage of cellular wireless communication network which is not only slow compared with other types of wireless network e.g. Wi Fi but may also incur additional charge by the carrier .

As described above the mobile terminal has limited capacity for storing only a limited number of information items. For large information items e.g. a 90 minute HD movie it is also less efficient if the same movie is stored at different mobile terminals. In order to increase the availability of a collected information item to different users the mobile terminal synchronizes itself with the remote messaging server by uploading the collected information items into the server so that the same or different user can access the plurality of information items stored at the remote server from another terminal. In some implementations one user may use multiple client devices for collecting information items and viewing them. For example the user may use a smartphone at work for information collection and a tablet at home. After the user collects an information item using his her smartphone and uploads the collected information item into the server the server can then push the collected information item to the tablet which may be located in an active Wi Fi environment immediately or according to a user specified schedule. By doing so the same user can access the collected information items through different client devices seamlessly. This feature is also used when the same user changes his her smartphone. After registering the new smartphone with the messaging server the messaging server can initiate a synchronization process to push the information items collected by the user using his her old smartphone down to the new device.

As shown in the mobile terminal executes a synchronization strategy using the Wi Fi connection and minimize the usage of non Wi Fi connections e.g. a connection through the cellular wireless network . For each collected information item the mobile terminal sends a query to the remote messaging server the query including an identity of the collected information item. In some implementations the information item s identity is a unique identifier derived from the information item s source and creation timestamp information. The mobile terminal then receives a response to the query from the remote server. As noted above the stored information item database includes many entries each entry having a unique identifier. Given an information item identifier the messaging server or the data search module can tell whether the corresponding information item has been stored in the database or not. In other words the response from the messaging server indicates whether there is an existing copy of data associated with the collected information item at the remote server and if existing an address of the data associated with the collected information item e.g. a unique digital fingerprint derived from the content of the information item such that two information items sharing the same digital fingerprint should have identical content and the messaging server only need to save one copy of the information item stored at the remote server. If there is no existing copy of the data associated with the collected information item at the remote server the mobile terminal then determines a timing of uploading the data associated with the collected information item to the remote server.

As noted above one factor that the mobile terminal is configured to consider when determining the timing of the upload is the type of connection wired or wireless the mobile terminal has with the remote messaging server . For example if the mobile terminal detects that the mobile terminal has an active Wi Fi connection to the remote server it then automatically uploads the data associated with the collected information item to the remote server using the Wi Fi connection because most Wi Fi connection providers do not charge their users based on the amount of data uploaded downloaded to from the Internet. While uploading the data associated with the collected information item to the remote server using the Wi Fi connection the mobile terminal records information such as the exact amount of data that has been uploaded and a point in the information item that marks the remainder of the data that has not been uploaded yet. Upon detecting that the mobile terminal no longer has an active Wi Fi connection to the remote messaging server the mobile terminal can suspend the upload of the data associated with the collected information item to the remote server and save in its memory the recorded information regarding the suspension at the mobile terminal so that the mobile terminal can resume the upload in the future using the saved information. In some implementations the mobile terminal checks the size of the remaining portion of the data associated with the collected information item. If the size is smaller than a predefined threshold e.g. 50 KB the mobile terminal may try to upload the remaining portion of the data using a non Wi Fi connection. But if the size is above the predefined threshold the mobile terminal may stop the upload temporarily until it reacquires an active Wi Fi connection to the remote server. The resumption of the upload may occur automatically without user instructions after the mobile terminal has an active Wi Fi connection to the remote server.

Alternatively if the mobile terminal detects that the mobile terminal has a non Wi Fi wireless connection to the remote server e.g. a 3G 4G wireless connection through a carrier s network the mobile terminal is configured to prompt the user for an instruction of whether or not uploading the data associated with the collected information item to the remote server using the non Wi Fi connection. If the user wants to avoid incurring additional cost for using the non Wi Fi connection s he can choose not to upload the data by responding negatively and wait until e.g. a Wi Fi connection or a wired connection becomes available. But in response to a positive decision from the user the mobile terminal starts uploading the data associated with the collected information item to the remote server using the non Wi Fi connection. While uploading the data associated with the collected information item to the remote server using the non Wi Fi connection the mobile terminal also records information such as the exact amount of data that has been uploaded and a point in the information item that marks the remainder of the data that has not been uploaded yet. Upon detecting that the mobile terminal has an active Wi Fi connection to the remote server the mobile terminal can then suspend the upload of the data associated with the collected information item to the remote server using the non Wi Fi connection and resume the upload of the data associated with the collected information item to the remote server using the Wi Fi connection. Using the saved information the mobile terminal can resume the upload from a position at which the upload using non Wi Fi connection is suspended.

Referring back to after or in parallel to the synchronization step the mobile terminal displays at least a subset of the plurality of information items in a chronological order on its display. depicts an exemplary screenshot of a list of information items collected by a user using the messaging client module in . In this example the information items are listed in a reverse chronological order such that the most recent item appears at the top of the list. Note that the information items are of different types and have different data formats and it is within the scope of the present application that the information items may be displayed in a different order e.g. based on a user configurable preference or grouped into different categories according to the user s setting instructions. For example the first one is a text message received by the user from a friend the second one is a music video in the user s song album the third one is a news article published on New York Times or the URL of the news article at the website and the fourth one is a voicemail in the form of audio stream from somebody.

Although the list view provides a user a lot of information about different types of information items collected by the user over time the user is also given filter options to screen out those collected information items that the user is not currently interested in. As shown in one way of filtering out some of the information items from the list view is to enter one or more search keywords into the search box . Alternatively as shown in the user can also sort the collected information items by their types information by tapping the filter icon .

As shown in in response to detecting the user instruction to filter the plurality of information items the mobile terminal displays a plurality of filtering options based on types of the plurality of information items. As noted above when a user taps on an information item for collection the mobile terminal stores not only the information item itself e.g. content and address but also metadata associated with the information item such as the author type source of the information item the publication and collection timestamp of the information item the subject synopsis and comments made by the author or the collector of the information item etc. In some implementations an information item collected from a particular source may be tagged with additional labels. For example a text message may have a tag indicating which conversation it belongs to and a set of participants of this conversation. Both the content and metadata of an information item may be indexed by the mobile terminal and the messaging server for search related operations. For example a user can specify a time window for identifying information items collected by the user during that time window. Similarly the user can limit the search to a specific type of collected information items e.g. messages published at a particular group chat room. depicts six different filtering options to for the user to choose from. Then in response to detecting a user selection of the one of filtering options the mobile terminal then replaces the display of the subset of the plurality of information items e.g. the list view in with a display of a new set of information items that satisfies the user selected filtering option. depicts a 2D grid view of thumbnail images when the user taps the images filtering option . depicts a list view of chat sessions between the user and his her friends that have been collected. Note that after the user selects one of the filtering options the search box in or in is updated so that the search scope is limited to those information items that have satisfied the user selected filtering options. Note that the actual images associated with the thumbnail images may have been processed by the messaging server or more specifically the data processing module to e.g. extract text from them for search purposes.

Referring back to again after displaying the information items the mobile terminal may detect a user selection of one of the displayed information items. In some implementations the mobile terminal does not necessarily have the data associated with every information item displayed on its screen. For example when the user chooses to collect a video stream from the Internet the mobile terminal may display an entry corresponding to the video stream without downloading the video stream yet. Therefore in response to the user selection the mobile terminal determines whether data associated with the user selected information item is in the mobile terminal or not. If the data associated with the user selected information item is in the mobile terminal the mobile terminal then renders the data on the mobile terminal by e.g. invoking appropriate applications to process the data. If the data associated with the user selected information item is not currently in the mobile terminal the mobile terminal then downloads the data from the remote server and then renders the data on the mobile terminal accordingly.

As shown in in response to a user selection of the information item the mobile terminal invokes an application to play the video stream. In this example it is assumed that the mobile terminal does not have the data associated with the video stream but the remote server has the video stream. Therefore a download icon is displayed at the bottom of the screen. In response to the user selection of the download icon the mobile terminal sends a request to the remote server for downloading the video stream the request including information for identifying the video stream. In response to the request the remote server queries its database for the video stream. In case that the video stream is not found in the database the remote server may use the identifying information to determine where to download the video stream. Very often the same video stream may be collected by multiple users such that the remote server already has the requested video stream and push it down to the requesting mobile terminal.

A user can not only collect information items for his her own use but also share them with others through e.g. different social networking service applications. As shown in upon detecting a user instruction to share the user selected information item to a second user the mobile terminal determines an identity of the user selected information item in this case the video stream of Dr King s speech and then sends an instruction to the remote server for sharing the video stream. depicts an exemplary screenshot that includes a sharing icon for the user to select. In response to a user selection of the sharing icon the mobile terminal generates two icons and . The user can choose the recipient s of the information item by selecting the icon and provide additional information e.g. a comment to the recipient. In some implementations the instruction sent to the messaging server includes the identity of the user selected information item and an identity of the second user. Using such information the remote server identifies data associated with the user selected information item and pushes the identified data to a mobile terminal associated with the second user.

In some implementations there is contextual or background information associated with a collected information item. When a user revisits the collected information item the mobile terminal can bring back the contextual or background information so as to put the collected information item into an appropriate context. This feature is very useful if the collected information item is a short text message. In response to the user selection the mobile terminal identifies one or more messages immediately before and or after the user selected information item and displays them together with the user selected text message. depicts an exemplary screenshot after a user selection of the text message in . There are three messages immediately before the text message which provides more contextual information about the user collected text message . In this example the text message is the last one of the conversation. But one skilled in the art would understand that there might be messages immediately after the message if it is not the last one of the conversation. In some implementations when a user shares a collected information item with another user the contextual information is provided to the other user as well. The user is also allowed to edit the contextual information if necessary. For example when a user shares a text message with others s he may choose to delete some other text messages from the context or annotate the shared text message by providing additional background information or explanation to make it easier to be understood by others. As noted above both the collected information item and the contextual background information may be indexed for search related operations.

In some implementations a user can not only collect different types of information items but also collect them using different applications. To support this feature the messaging client module may provide an open API for third party applications to invoke its information collection function. are flow charts illustrating how a user of a third party application invokes an electronic messaging client to store information items at the messaging server in accordance with some implementations. Note that the third party application may be running on the same mobile terminal as the messaging client module or on a different client device which does not have to be mobile terminal .

As shown in the client device renders an information item and an information storing option associated with the information item using a first application at the client device. For example the user may be using a web browser on the client device to watch a video stream or a web page and then decide to collect the video stream or the web page and have it stored in the messaging server for future use by selecting the information storing option. The client device detects a user selection of the information storing option. In response to the user selection of the information storing option the client device then invokes a second application to upload data associated with the information item rendered on the client device to the remote server and resumes the rendition of the information item using the first application at the client device.

As noted above the client device supporting the third party application may or may not be the same as the mobile terminal supporting the messaging client module . depicts an information collection process when the two devices are the same entity i.e. a mobile terminal. Upon detecting the user selection of the information storing option the mobile terminal then determines whether or not the user has logged into the second application e.g. the messaging client module . If the user has logged into the second application the mobile terminal then invokes the second application to determine whether or not to upload data associated with the information item to the remote server. If the user has not logged into the second application the mobile terminal first invokes the second application to prompt the user to log into the second application and then binds the first application with the second application after the user logs into the second application before invoking the second application. In some implementations the first application provides an API for the second application e.g. the messaging client module to authenticate a user before collecting the user selected information item. In this case a user tap on the information storing option at the first application prompts the user to provide his her login information at the messaging server without leaving the first application. In some other implementations the same user has a separate user account associated with the first application. In response to a user selection of the information storing option the first application terminal may prompt the user to bind his her account at the first application with the his her account at the second application. Either the first application or the second application may set a timer for the binding such that the two user accounts are decoupled from each other after a predefined time period e.g. ranging from a few hours to a few days. In yet some other implementations the first application transfers the collected information item to the second application and let the second application handle the user authentication and information collection synchronization with the messaging server independently. At the end of the process the second application gives the user an option to return to the first application at which the user selects the information storing icon. In some implementations the user can also sort the collected information items like the way as described above in connection with .

In some implementations a user of the third party application can not only upload information items from the third party application to the messaging server but also pull back the information items that s he has collected over time from the messaging server. This feature enables a two way traffic between the messaging server and the third party application and makes it more attractive for third party application to support this information storing function. As shown in after uploading the data associated with the information item to the remote server the client device detects a user instruction to retrieve information items associated with the first application from the remote server at the client device. In response to the user instruction the client device submits a request for the information items associated with the first application to the remote server using the second application. As noted above regardless of whether the client device and the mobile terminal are the same or not the messaging server can authenticate the request from the client device and determine which user account should be tied with the request and return the collected information items associated with the first application accordingly. The client device then displays at least a subset of the information items returned by the remote server. Note that the information items returned by the remote server may be displayed through the first application or the second application on the client device or the mobile terminal. Assuming that the information items are displayed on the client device in response to detecting a user selection of one of the displayed information items the client device then renders the user selected information item using the first application accordingly. depicts a similar process performed at a mobile terminal. In response to a user selection of the collection history icon in the third party application the mobile terminal receives all the information items associated with the third party application over time and generates a list view of the collected information items. A user can then activate any of them using the third party application.

Reference has been made in detail to implementations examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While particular implementations are described it will be understood it is not intended to limit the invention to these particular implementations. On the contrary the invention includes alternatives modifications and equivalents that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter presented herein. But it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the implementations.

Although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example first ranking criteria could be termed second ranking criteria and similarly second ranking criteria could be termed first ranking criteria without departing from the scope of the present invention. First ranking criteria and second ranking criteria are both ranking criteria but they are not the same ranking criteria.

The terminology used in the description of the invention herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in accordance with a determination or in response to detecting that a stated condition precedent is true depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined that a stated condition precedent is true or if a stated condition precedent is true or when a stated condition precedent is true may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or in accordance with a determination or upon detecting or in response to detecting that the stated condition precedent is true depending on the context.

Although some of the various drawings illustrate a number of logical stages in a particular order stages that are not order dependent may be reordered and other stages may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific implementations. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The implementations were chosen and described in order to best explain principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various implementations with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Implementations include alternatives modifications and equivalents that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter presented herein. But it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the implementations.

