---

title: Systems and methods for dive computers with remote upload capabilities
abstract: Dive computers incorporating a variety of features are disclosed. One embodiment of the invention includes a dive computer including a microprocessor, memory configured to store a software application, a pressure transducer configured to determine depth information, and a communications device configured to communicate with external devices, wherein the software application configures the microprocessor to create a dive log stored in memory, wherein the dive log includes recorded information including depth of submersion information recorded from the pressure transducer, and transmit the dive log using the communications device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443039&OS=09443039&RS=09443039
owner: Pelagic Pressure Systems Corp.
number: 09443039
owner_city: San Leandro
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130102
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 465 480 filed May 7 2012 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 246 408. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 246 408 claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 977 749 entitled Dive Computer with Global Positioning System Receiver. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 246 408 also claims priority as a continuation in part to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 170 871 entitled Dive Computer with Global Positioning System Receiver which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 264 390 now abandoned. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 264 390 is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 615 635 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 394 982 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 972 715. The disclosure of U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 13 465 408 12 246 408 12 170 871 11 264 390 and 10 615 635 and the disclosure of U.S. Provisional Patent Applications Nos. 60 977 749 and 60 394 982 are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to underwater exploration and more specifically to apparatus and techniques for determining location during a dive.

The development of self contained breathing systems has enabled humans to dive and remain underwater for several hours. The ability to remain underwater for an extended period of time can enable divers to reach considerable depths and cover expansive distances in exploring underwater terrain.

A problem commonly encountered by divers is an inability to accurately locate position underwater. Position is typically expressed in terms of three co ordinates. The position of a diver underwater can be expressed in terms of a latitude a longitude and a depth co ordinate. The latitude and the longitude co ordinates represent the latitude and the longitude of a point on the surface of the water directly above the diver. The depth co ordinate represents the depth of the diver below the surface of the water. A dive computer similar to a ProPlus 2 manufactured by Oceanic Worldwide of San Leandro Calif. can be used to track depth during a dive.

Dive computers incorporating a variety of features are disclosed. One embodiment of the invention includes a dive computer including a microprocessor memory configured to store a software application a pressure transducer configured to determine depth information and a communications device configured to communicate with external devices wherein the software application configures the microprocessor to create a dive log stored in memory wherein the dive log includes recorded information including depth of submersion information recorded from the pressure transducer and transmit the dive log using the communications device.

In another embodiment of the invention the dive computer further includes a keypad connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes text data obtained using the keypad.

In an additional embodiment of the invention the dive computer further includes a Global Positioning System GPS receiver connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes location information obtained using the GPS receiver.

In yet another additional embodiment of the invention the dive computer further includes a sensor module connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes sensor information obtained using the sensor module.

In still another additional embodiment of the invention the sensor information is selected from the group consisting of tank air pressure water pressure time elapsed and temperature.

In yet still another additional embodiment of the invention the dive computer includes a camera module connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes images obtained using the camera module.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the recorded information includes video obtained using the camera module.

In still another embodiment of the invention the dive computer further includes a microphone connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes audio data obtained using the microphone.

In yet still another embodiment of the invention the dive computer further includes a compass connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes heading information obtained using the compass.

In yet another additional embodiment of the invention the memory is configured to store information about a dive site the dive site information is selected from the group consisting of marine life common to the dive site points of interest in the dive site and maps of the dive site and the recorded information includes the dive site information.

In still another additional embodiment of the invention the dive computer further includes a flow measurement device connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes speed information obtained using the flow measurement device.

Yet another embodiment of the invention includes a dive data processing system including a microprocessor memory configured to store a dive data processing application and a communications device configured to receive dive logs wherein the dive data processing application configures the microprocessor to receive at least one dive log captured during at least one dive at a dive site where the dive log includes recorded information including depth of submersion information recorded from a pressure transducer process at least one received dive log and display the processed dive log.

In yet another additional embodiment of the invention the dive log includes dive data from at least one dive and the dive data processing application further configures the microprocessor to process the dive data where the processed dive data includes dive data points.

In still another additional embodiment of the invention the dive data processing application further configures the microprocessor to generate an activity map where the activity map associates the dive data points with a map of the dive site.

In yet still another additional embodiment of the invention the dive data processing application further configures the microprocessor to generate a dive profile where the dive profile included dive data points from dive data at least one dive.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the dive data processing application further configures the microprocessor to determine diver behavior information using the processed dive data determine relevant advertising information using the diver behavior and associate the relevant advertising information with the dive data.

In still another embodiment of the invention the dive data processing application further configures the microprocessor to receive a request to share dive data and transmit the dive data in response to the request to share dive data.

In yet still another embodiment of the invention the dive data is associated with a user of the dive data processing system and the dive data is transmitted to a second user of the dive data processing system where the second user is separate from the user associated with the dive data.

Still another embodiment of the invention includes a dive computer including a microprocessor memory configured to store a software application a pressure transducer configured to determine depth information and a communications device configured to communicate with external devices wherein the software application configures the microprocessor to create a dive log stored in memory wherein the dive log includes recorded information including depth of submersion information recorded from the pressure transducer and transmit the dive log using the communications device.

In yet another additional embodiment of the invention the dive computer includes a keypad connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes text data obtained using the keypad.

In still another additional embodiment of the invention the dive computer includes a Global Positioning System GPS receiver connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes location information obtained using the GPS receiver.

In yet still another additional embodiment of the invention the dive computer includes a sensor module connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes sensor information obtained using the sensor module.

In yet still another additional embodiment of the invention the sensor information is selected from the group including tank air pressure water pressure time elapsed and temperature.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the dive computer includes a camera module connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes images obtained using the camera module.

In still another embodiment of the invention the recorded information includes video obtained using the camera module.

In yet still another embodiment of the invention the dive computer includes a microphone connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes audio data obtained using the microphone.

In yet another additional embodiment of the invention the dive computer includes a compass connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes heading information obtained using the compass.

In still another additional embodiment of the invention the memory is configured to store information about a dive site the dive site information is selected from the group consisting of marine life common to the dive site points of interest in the dive site and maps of the dive site and the recorded information includes the dive site information.

In yet still another additional embodiment of the invention the dive computer includes a flow measurement device connected to the microprocessor wherein the recorded information includes speed information obtained using the flow measurement device.

Yet another embodiment of the invention includes a dive data processing system including a microprocessor memory configured to store a dive data processing application and a communications device configured to receive dive logs wherein the dive data processing application configures the microprocessor to receive at least one dive log captured during at least one dive at a dive site where the dive log includes recorded information including depth of submersion information recorded from a pressure transducer process at least one received dive log and display the processed dive log.

In yet another additional embodiment of the invention the dive log includes dive data from at least one dive and the dive data processing application further configures the microprocessor to process the dive data where the processed dive data includes dive data points.

In still another additional embodiment of the invention the dive data processing application further configures the microprocessor to generate an activity map where the activity map associates the dive data points with a map of the dive site.

In yet still another additional embodiment of the invention the dive data processing application further configures the microprocessor to generate a dive profile where the dive profile includes dive data points from dive data at least one dive.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the dive data processing application further configures the microprocessor to determine diver behavior information using the processed dive data determine relevant advertising information using the diver behavior and associate the relevant advertising information with the dive data.

In still another embodiment of the invention the dive data processing application further configures the microprocessor to receive a request to share dive data and transmit the dive data in response to the request to share dive data.

In yet still another embodiment of the invention the dive data is associated with a user of the dive data processing system and the dive data is transmitted to a second user of the dive data processing system where the second user is separate from the user associated with the dive data.

Turning now to the drawings dive computers in accordance with embodiments of the invention are illustrated. The dive computers make and record at least measurements of time depth and pressure. These measurements allow the dive computers to calculate whether a diver is ascending or descending at a safe rate and whether the diver needs to make decompression stops. The dive computers also specify the duration of the decompression stops if they are needed. The dive computer display makes all of this information available to the diver visually. Calculations involving these measurements by the dive computer can indicate the need for warnings to the diver. Warnings to the diver can be based on air time remaining unsafe rate of descent or ascent decompression or pressure. Warnings can appear on the display of the dive computer. Warnings can also be indicated to the diver by some visual display other than the display on the dive computer and or aurally. In several embodiments divers waiting underwater for decompression stops or for other reasons can play video and or audio content stored in connection with the dive computer. In this way a diver who is waiting for any period of time can watch a movie or listen to music while waiting.

The dive computers make and record at least three significant sets of measurements which enable the estimation of the location of points of interest underwater and the path traveled by a diver during a dive. The first set of measurements typically includes measurements of latitude longitude and time immediately prior to the commencement of a dive. The second set of measurements can be generated by periodically measuring depth and time during a dive. The third set of measurements can be compiled by measuring latitude longitude and time immediately upon resurfacing from a dive. Following a dive an estimation of location at a specified time during the dive using these three sets of measurements can be made by using a number of techniques in accordance with practice of the present invention. In several embodiments the accuracy of the estimation can be increased by including measurements of speed and bearing in the second set of measurements.

Turning now to a dive computer in accordance with practice of the present invention is illustrated. The dive computer includes a processor that is connected to memory a GPS receiver clock circuitry and an input output interface . The input output interface is connected to a number of devices that can be used to communicate with a user or other devices. In a variety of embodiments these devices include a pressure transducer a keypad a display a communications port and a microphone . A digital camera is also provided as an input device however the digital camera bypasses the microprocessor and is connected directly to the memory .

The processor receives information from the GPS receiver the clock circuitry and the input output interface and selectively stores the information in memory . In a variety of embodiments the processor is implemented using a MSP430F149 manufactured by Texas Instruments Incorporated of Dallas Tex. However the processor could be implemented using other microprocessors discrete logic components and or several separate processing elements that share information.

The memory can be used to store data logged by the dive computer to temporarily store information during the performance of calculations and to store software used to control the operation of the processor . The memory need not be a single integrated circuit and can be constructed from a number of integrated circuits having distinct properties. In the illustrated embodiment the memory includes non volatile memory circuits to store software for controlling the processor manufacturer settings user settings and calibration data. In addition the memory also includes a removable memory device that is used to store data logged during a dive such as images a dive profile dive logs GPS logs and or audio recordings. One aspect of using a removable memory device is that individual dives can be logged on separate removable memory devices and the removable memory devices used as a method of storing the logged data remote from the dive computer. In other embodiments multimedia such as movies and or music can be loaded into the dive computer for viewing via the removable memory. In many embodiments the removable memory contains information concerning a dive site such as marine life common to the area points of interest and or maps. In embodiments that use a MSP430F149 processor or equivalent processor device the non volatile memory included on the processor chip can be used to implement the non volatile memory circuits and the removable memory device can be implemented using a SDMB 128 768 128 MB MultiMedia Card manufactured by SanDisk of Sunnyvale Calif. In other embodiments memory devices of various sizes volatility and portability can be used depending on the software requirements of the system and the data logging requirements of the user. For example the removable memory device can be replaced by a similar sized fixed memory device such as an AT2508N 10SI 1.8 manufactured by Atmel Corporation of San Jose Calif. or an equivalent memory device.

The GPS receiver utilizes signals broadcast from satellites to make calculations of latitude and longitude. The GPS receiver provides the latitude and longitude information to the processor which is responsible for the processing and storage of the information. In a variety of embodiments the GPS receiver is implemented using a GeoHelix H GPS antenna manufactured by Sarantel Ltd. of Wellingborough United Kingdom. In other embodiments other GPS receiver technologies such as an Embedded 3.3V GPS Antenna in conjunction with an M LocJ MPM module both manufactured by Trimble Navigation Limited of Sunnyvale Calif. can be used that are capable of providing information to the processor generating latitude and longitude co ordinates.

The clock circuitry can be used to measure the passage of time. Typically the clock circuitry will incorporate a quartz crystal that is used to generate a periodic signal that can be observed in order to measure the passage of time. The clock circuitry can also be synchronized with an external clock to enable time to be expressed in absolute terms using a time a day a month and a year. In a variety of embodiments the clock circuitry is part of the MSP430F149 microcontroller described above. In other embodiments the absolute time can be obtained using the GPS receiver .

The input output interface can be constructed from any variety of wires antennas transmitters receivers connectors and buffers. The configuration of the input output interface is dependent on the input output devices that are connected to the dive computer. In the embodiment shown in the input output devices include a pressure transducer a keypad a display a communications port and a microphone. In other embodiments any other combination of input output devices can be connected to the dive computer via the input output interface. In a variety of embodiments the portion of the input output interface connected to the pressure transducer includes a standard analog to digital converter. In addition the input output interface uses a display driver such as an S6B33A1 manufactured by Samsung of Seoul South Korea to connect to segment display and a CS53L32A High Speed Analog to Digital converter manufactured by Cirrus Logic Inc. of Austin Tex. to connect to the microphone .

The pressure transducer can be used to measure the pressure of the water in which the dive computer is immersed. In a variety of embodiments a 17887.A Low Pressure Transducer manufactured by Pelagic Pressure Systems of San Leandro Calif. can be used to construct the pressure transducer . In other embodiments other circuits capable of generating an electrical signal indicative of the water pressure in which the dive computer is immersed can be used.

A keypad is typically provided to enable the user to enter information concerning the dive or to direct the processor to provide the user with information. In a variety of embodiments the keypad includes one or more buttons that can be used to tag the location of the user as a point of interest. As will be explained in greater detail below the tagged location can be subsequently retrieved from the memory of the dive computer . In other embodiments the keypad can include one or more buttons toggles joysticks or equivalent devices with which the user can provide instructions to the processor .

A display is typically provided to present information in a graphical manner to the user. Information that can be provided to the user includes a recent GPS reading depth and or time. If the dive computer performs other functions information relating to these functions can also be communicated using the display .

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the connection of keypads and displays to dive computers is well known and any number of possible configurations devices and circuitry could be used to establish a connection between these devices and the processor .

The communications port is provided to enable the transfer of information between the dive computer and other devices. In a variety of embodiments the communications port is an Integrated Low Profile Transceiver Module IrDA standard such as the TFDU4100 manufactured by Vishay Semiconductor Inc. of Malvern Pa. In other embodiments other wired or wireless connections and protocols can be used to communicate with external devices. The transfer of information via the communications port enables the movement of data and new software between the dive computer and other devices. In a variety of embodiments dive information stored in the dive computer memory can be loaded onto a personal computer and stored graphed or manipulated. In addition information from a previous dive stored on an external device can be loaded into the memory of the dive computer for reference during a subsequent dive or information stored within the dive computer can be manipulated by external devices.

The microphone is provided to enable the audio annotation of data logged by the dive computer . The annotations can be made before during or after a dive by making a digital recording of the words spoken by the user and associating them with a particular dive or with particular tagged locations. In other embodiments automatic speech recognition could be used to generate textual annotations. The addition of automatic speech recognition technology would also enable the dive computer to respond to audible instructions from the user. In a variety of embodiments the microphone can be a MAB 06A B manufactured by Star Micronics Company Ltd. of Edison N.J. As described above the input output interface can include an analog to digital converter for connection to the microphone. The analog to digital converter can sample the analog signal generated by the microphone and generate a digital representation of the analog signal. In a variety of embodiments the analog to digital converter samples the signal from the microphone at a rate of 8 kHz and uses 28 quantization levels to represent the signal. In other embodiments other sampling rates and a different number of quantization levels can be used as is appropriate.

In embodiments where automatic speech recognition is used the processor or a discrete device in the input output interface can convert the digital representations of the signals from the microphone to text or commands using hidden Markov models neural networks hybrid neural network hidden Markov models or other speech modeling or recognition techniques. In a variety of embodiments speech recognition is performed using a RSC 4 Speech Recognition Microcontroller manufactured by Sensory Inc. of Santa Clara Calif.

The digital camera is provided to enable the capture of images during a dive and to enable the use of these images as part of a dive log if desired by the user. The digital camera can be implemented using a lens and an array of charge coupled devices both of which are contained within the waterproof dive computer housing. In a variety of embodiments the digital camera is implemented using a MB86S02A CMOS sensor manufactured by Fujitsu Microelectronics America Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. to capture image information and a MCF5307 Direct Memory Access Controller manufactured by Motorola Inc. of Schaumburg Ill. to transfer the image information directly to the memory . In other embodiments any circuitry capable of capturing a digital image can be used to obtain image information and store it in memory either via direct memory access or using the processor in combination with the input output interface .

Other input or output devices in addition to those described above can be connected to a dive computer in accordance with the present invention. In a variety of embodiments speakers are connected to the input output interface to enable the playback of recorded speech or to allow a diver to listen to music during a dive. In other embodiments other combinations of devices can be used to meet the information requirements and data recording requirements of a diver during a dive.

Turning now to a method of recording information during a dive that enables estimation of position in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is illustrated. The method includes taking a first GPS measurement which is performed prior to descending below the surface. Once below the surface depth and time are periodically measured . After ascending to the surface a second GPS measurement is taken .

If data is logged during a dive in accordance with the method then position during the dive can be estimated. If the user tags a particular location during a dive as being of interest then the user can use the data logged in accordance with the method shown in to subsequently locate the point of interest.

Turning now to a method of locating a previously identified point of interest using data logged in accordance with practice of the present invention is illustrated. The method includes calculating the duration of the recorded dive calculating the time that was taken to reach the identified point of interest from the start point of the dive and determining a straight line L between the start point of the dive and the end point of the dive. Once these functions have been performed a value A is then calculated which is equal to the length of the line L multiplied by the time taken to reach the point of interest and divided by the duration of the dive. The value A is then used to locate a point P which is a distance A from the start point of the dive along the line L .

Once the point P has been identified a diver can travel to the latitude and longitude of point P and commence a dive. The diver can then enter the water and descend to the recorded depth of the point of interest. At this depth the point of interest can be located by searching outwardly while attempting to maintain the recorded depth of the point of interest. The depth of a point of interest is particularly important in relocating that point. The co ordinates calculated as the latitude and longitude of a point of interest using data collected by a dive computer in accordance with the practice of the present invention are simply estimates that place a diver in the vicinity of the point of interest. The knowledge of the depth at which the point of interest is located enables the diver to perform an expanding search in the plane of that depth. Without this information a diver could be forced to search in three dimensions instead of two. The advantages of knowing a depth co ordinate are increased when the point of interest forms part of the topography of the sea floor. A diver can rapidly locate such a point of interest by simply descending to the recorded depth of the point of interest and then searching outwardly from the point of descent until a portion of the sea bed is encountered at the recorded depth of the point of interest. By following the topography of the sea bed at the depth of the point of interest the diver has a high likelihood of rapidly relocating the point of interest.

The method illustrated in can use data recorded in accordance with the method shown in . The time recorded at the beginning of the dive and the time recorded at the end of the dive can be used to calculate the duration of the dive. Likewise the time at the beginning of the dive and the time recorded at the point of interest can be used to calculate the time taken to reach the point of interest. The latitude and longitude co ordinates at the beginning of the dive and the latitude and longitude co ordinates at the end of the dive can be used to generate the line L and the times calculated above can be used to locate the estimated latitude and longitude of the point of interest as described above.

Other techniques can be used to locate a point of interest using data recorded in accordance with embodiments of the invention. In a variety of embodiments the logged data can be used to return to a point of interest by commencing the second dive at the latitude and longitude of whichever of the start and end points of the earlier dive was closest to the point of interest. The diver can then travel towards the other of the start and end points. The point of interest can then be located by traveling in this direction at the recorded depth of the point of interest for a time approximating the time it took to travel to the point of interest during the previous dive.

If a diver seeks to be able to return to a point of interest with a high degree of accuracy on subsequent dives then the diver is advised to ascend to the surface at the point of interest. The dive computer can then make a GPS measurement and the diver can be confident that returning to the recorded latitude and longitude and descending to the recorded depth will enable rapid location of the point of interest.

An alternative to ascending to the surface is to use the dive computer illustrated in that includes a compass and a GPS antenna mounted on a buoy which is connected to the other components of the dive computer via a spool of communication cable . In other embodiments a wireless connection is used between the spool and the other components of the dive computer. When a diver wishes to take a measurement of latitude and longitude at a point of interest the buoy is released. At the surface the antenna can receive the satellite signals required to measure latitude and longitude. These signals are then conveyed to the GPS receiver via the communications cable. In other embodiments additional components such as the entire GPS receiver can be included in the buoy. In a variety of embodiments the spool is an AR 05 manufactured by Saekodive of Taiwan.

Displacement of the buoy relative to the position of the diver is illustrated in . The displacement of the buoy relative to a position P directly above the diver can be calculated using Pythagoras theorem by measuring the length of communication cable released from the spool and the depth of the diver. The length of communication cable released can be measured using markings on the cable and entered in the dive computer manually or via voice command. Alternatively an external line counter could be used that communicates to the processor of the dive computer via a wireless or wired link. The depth of the diver can be measured using the dive computer in the manner described above. The direction of the displacement can be determined using a compass bearing of the cable relative to the diver.

Embodiments of the dive computer in accordance with practice of the present invention can enable automatic recording of latitude and longitude immediately prior to the dive computer descending below the surface of the water and immediately upon returning to the surface. Turning now to a method in accordance with practice of the present invention for automatically recording the latitude longitude and time prior to commencing a dive and upon surfacing from a dive is illustrated. The method includes making and storing measurements of latitude longitude and time using a GPS receiver. The process of measuring latitude longitude and time with the GPS receiver and storing the values continues until the diver descends below the surface and the answer to the decision of whether the diver has descended below the surface becomes affirmative.

Once the diver is below the surface measurements of depth and time are made and the measurements are recorded in the memory of the dive computer. The measurement and recording of depth and time continues for as long as the diver remains below the surface and until the answer to the decision of whether the diver has surfaced is affirmative. Once the diver has surfaced a measurement of latitude longitude and time is made and the measurement is recorded.

The method described in can ensure that the measurement stored at the commencement of the dive is the most recent measurement of latitude longitude and time that has been made by the GPS receiver and dive computer . In addition the method enables periodic measurement of depth and time during the dive and the rapid recording of latitude longitude and time when the diver resurfaces. In other embodiments the logging of latitude longitude and time can be initiated in response to user input.

The method shown in can be modified to enable the diver to identify points of interest during the dive. Turning now to a method in accordance with the practice of the present invention of identifying points of interest during a dive is illustrated. The method is performed while the diver is under water. The method can commence with the measurement of depth and time. Once a measurement of depth and time has been made the measurements are recorded . Prior to making another measurement of depth and time a check is made for any user input. If user input is detected then the previous or next depth and time measurements are identified as a point of interest.

In addition to identifying points of interest it is desirable to be able to associate information with a point of interest. One advantageous method of providing inputs to a dive computer is through the use of a microphone as is described above. Speech commands can be used to control the function of the dive computer and speech can be either recorded or converted to text in order to provide description or annotation to a point of interest. In embodiments where speech can be recorded the recording of speech can be initiated by the pressing of a button on the keypad or by a voice command recognizable by the dive computer. In a variety of embodiments the microphone is contained within a full face mask enabling speech to be recorded underwater. In other embodiments more than one microphone is included so that a diver can record speech using a first microphone and underwater sounds or environmental noise using a second microphone. In embodiments of the dive computer that include a digital camera one or more still images or a series of still images forming a video sequence can be recorded and associated with a point of interest.

Turning now to a method in accordance with practice of the present invention is illustrated for responding to voice commands. The method includes listening for sound. Once sound is detected a decision is performed to determine if a voice spotting sound has been detected. A voice spotting sound is a spoken word such as computer that can indicate that a user is preparing to speak a command to a dive computer .

If the voice spotting sound is detected then the method involves listening for a command. A dive computer in accordance with practice of the present invention will typically have a library of commands each requiring different responses from the processor . If a sound is heard then a decision is performed to determine whether the sound corresponds to one of the commands recognized by the dive computer . If a command is recognized then a response is made to the command. Once the response is complete the process returns to listening for sound to await the next command.

The method described above uses a voice spotting technique. In other embodiments voice spotting is not required. The speech recognition performed in voice spotting and detecting commands can be either discrete or continuous recognition. The speech recognition can also be either speaker dependent or speaker independent. In embodiments where annotation of points of interest can be performed a speech command can cause the processor to begin digitally recording speech and to associate the recording with a particular point of interest. In other embodiments other forms of user input can be used to identify a point of interest and to commence the digital recording of speech. Alternatively a command can cause the processor to convert a passage of speech to text using speech recognition techniques and to associate the text with a point of interest that can be identified using speech commands or using an alternative user input technique.

As was observed above latitude longitude and time measurements made in accordance with practice of the present invention can be used to estimate the latitude and longitude of a point of interest. The accuracy of this estimate can be affected by currents and the variation in the speed at which the diver traveled during the dive. The accuracy of the estimated latitude and longitude of a point of interest can be improved in accordance with the practice of the present invention by taking measurements of water speed and bearing as is discussed below.

A dive computer in accordance with the practice of the present invention including an impeller and a compass is illustrated in . The dive computer is similar to the dive computer illustrated in but with the addition that an impeller and a compass are connected to the processor via the input output interface. Impellers are devices that generate signals that can be used to measure the flow rate of a liquid or the water speed of the dive computer. By attaching an impeller equipped dive computer to a diver the output of the impeller can be used to measure the speed at which the diver is moving through water and the compass can be used to provide signals to the processor indicative of the direction in which the diver is moving. In a variety of embodiments a 3000 impeller manufactured by Nielsen Kellerman of Chester Pa. in conjunction with a receiver coil connected to a counter that can be used to implement the impeller and a HMC 1055 3 axis magnetic sensor manufactured by Honeywell International of Morristown N.J. that can be used to implement the compass. In other embodiments other types of flow measurement devices can be used to measure water speed.

A diver equipped with a dive computer in accordance with the present invention is illustrated in . The dive computer is implemented as two discrete components and . The first component is worn around the wrist of the diver and includes all of the components of the dive computer illustrated in except for the impeller and the compass. The impeller and the compass are located in a second component that is fixed to an air tank worn by the diver. In the illustrated embodiment the two components communicate via a wireless communications link. In other embodiments the two components can communicate via a wired communications link. In a variety of embodiments a flow measurement device can be mounted on a variety of components such as on the wrist of the diver and or the dive computer .

While embodiments shown in and include an impeller and a compass embodiments of the present invention where the parts of the dive computer are distributed between multiple self contained components need not include an impeller or a compass. In a variety of embodiments the GPS receiver can be located within a first self contained component that is attached to the tank second stage or thereabouts and the remaining parts of the dive computer can be located within a second self contained watch like component attached to the diver s wrist or other appropriate part of the diver s body. In several embodiments the dive computer includes multiple self contained components that are capable of exchanging information and the parts of the dive computer are distributed between the multiple self contained components.

In a variety of embodiments the dive computer can be contained in a single self contained watch like unit that is attachable to the diver s wrist or another appropriate part of the diver s body. In many embodiments the display keypad and microphone can be located in a first self contained watch like component attached to the diver s wrist or other appropriate part of the diver s body and remaining parts of the dive computer can be located within a second self contained component attached to the tank second stage or thereabouts. In any of the embodiments which involve the dive computer implemented in separate components the components can communicate via a wired or wireless communication link. In a variety of embodiments the wireless communication link is implemented using radio frequency communication. In a variety of embodiments the wireless communication link is implemented using piezoelectric communication. In many embodiments the wireless communication link is implemented using magnetic fields.

Returning to embodiments including an impeller and compass typically a diver is fully extended while swimming and fixing the impeller in a direction parallel to the long axis of the diver as the diver swims provides an accurate measurement of the speed of the diver. In addition mounting the compass so that the bearing measurement is made along a line parallel to the long axis of the diver also enables an accurate measurement of bearing to be made. In order accurately align the impeller and compass it is desirable that the impeller and the compass be fixed to maintain a position relative to the body of the diver throughout the dive. Therefore in the embodiment illustrated in the impeller and the compass are fixed to the air tank and aligned to be approximately parallel to the long axis of the body of the diver when the diver is fully extended.

In other embodiments the impeller and the compass can be fixed to other locations on the body or equipment of a diver. In many embodiments the compass and impeller are included in a single unit with the other components of the dive computer and the position of the impeller and the compass can be controlled by the diver. A diver can use such a dive computer in accordance with the present invention to take instantaneous current readings to use instantaneous speed calculations to calculate range based on air time remaining see discussion below or for any other application where an instantaneous measurement of speed can be useful. An example of a hose mounted dive computer including an impeller and a compass is illustrated in and an example of wrist mountable dive computer including an impeller and a compass is illustrated in . In several embodiments accelerometer are used either in combination with an impeller or as a substitute for an impeller in order to make distance and velocity measurements.

A method of recording data in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The method is similar to the method illustrated in with the difference that the periodic measurements of depth and time are supplemented with periodic measurements of bearing and water speed.

Assuming there is insignificant current the measurements obtained using the process illustrated in provides a complete map of the course taken by a diver. The starting latitude and longitude locations provide the origin of the course and the path followed by the diver can be determined using the water speed bearing and depth and time information. Factors such as drift current can be accounted for by scaling the course to ensure that it terminates at the location where the diver surfaced as measured using the GPS receiver. This scaling can be performed by the dive computer or by an external device that manipulates data provided by the dive computer. Drift currents can also be compensated for using measurements made by configurations of accelerometers.

In a variety of embodiments the process illustrated in is used to adjust or scale the course obtained using recorded water speed and bearing measurements in response to the latitude and longitude measurements obtained at the origin and termination of a dive. The process includes defining a planar co ordinate system at the origin of the dive using the co ordinates x y and z where z represents the depth dimension. Calculating position co ordinates relative to the origin of the path taken during the dive using the water speed depth and bearing data. Determining position co ordinates of the termination point of the dive based on the water speed depth and bearing data. Determining position co ordinates of the termination point of the dive based on the GPS receiver measurements of latitude and longitude. Calculating the scaling factors that the x and y co ordinates of the termination point determined using the water speed depth and bearing data can be multiplied by in order to obtain the x and y co ordinates of the termination point determined using the GPS receiver measurements of latitude and longitude. An estimate of the path taken during the dive is then obtained by scaling the x and y co ordinates of the points in the path determined using the recorded water speed depth and bearing measurements by the calculated scaling factors. The estimated path can then be output in terms of latitude longitude and depth by mapping the co ordinates of the path from the planar co ordinate system that was defined relative to the origin of the dive to latitude longitude and depth co ordinates.

An embodiment of a dive computer in accordance with the present invention that incorporates pressure transducers in order to measure air time remaining is illustrated in . The dive computer includes a pressure transducer that measures air pressure inside an air tank. In a variety of embodiments the pressure transducer is implemented using a high pressure sensor such as an 18519.A manufactured by Pelagic Pressure Systems of San Leandro Calif. Air pressure measurements can be converted into air time remaining statistics in accordance with the methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 586 136 to Lewis and U.S. Pat. No. 6 543 444 to Lewis both of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Knowledge of the water speed of the diver and the change in air time remaining can be used to generate useful information for a diver such as an estimation of the range that a diver can travel with the air remaining in the tanks of the diver. A process for calculating an estimation of range based on the air available to a diver is illustrated in . The process includes recording speed over a predetermined period of time and then calculating the average speed during that period of time . Once the average speed has been calculated the air time remaining is calculated . The air time remaining calculation can be used in combination with the average speed calculation to predict the range of the diver at current exertion levels. In other embodiments the air time remaining can be adjusted to reserve sufficient air to allow the diver to return to the surface from the depth at which the diver is located without significant risk of decompression sickness.

Underwater light levels can be low and consequently visibility can be difficult. Thus a light can be helpful in illuminating a diver s surroundings and or reading the dive computer. An embodiment of a dive computer in accordance with the present invention that incorporates a light is illustrated in . The dive computer . includes a light . a light sensor . a global positioning system GPS receiver . a digital camera . a memory . an input output interface . a keypad . a display . a communications port . a microphone . a pressure transducer . and a processor .. The processor is connected to the light light sensor GPS receiver memory and input output interface. The input output interface is connected to the keypad display communications port microphone and pressure transducer. The memory is connected to the digital camera.

In a variety of embodiments the light can illuminate the dive computer when the diver presses a button on the keypad and or automatically when the light sensor indicates the need for the light. The light sensor can measure the ambient light underwater. In many embodiments the light or a backlight illuminates the dive computer display. In several embodiments the light includes one or more light emitting diodes LEDs . In other embodiments the light is configured so that the dive computer can act as a flashlight.

In many embodiments the processor uses a signal generated by the light sensor to determine whether to activate the light. For instance if it is dark underwater the output generated by the light sensor is below a predetermined threshold therefore the processor turns the backlight on. If the signal indicates that there is a sufficient level of ambient light then the processor can respond by keeping the backlight off and preserving the dive computer battery.

During a dive a diver s attention is often drawn away from the display of his her dive computer. Therefore a period of time typically elapses between the display of a warning by a dive computer and the point in time at which the warning is observed by a diver. Examples of warnings that can be generated by a dive computer include air time remaining falling below a predetermined threshold and or a rate of ascension that is incompatible with safe decompression. An embodiment of a dive computer and dive mask with an audio device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in . The underwater audio system includes a dive computer . a dive mask . and a communication channel .. The dive computer includes a processor . an input output interface . and a communications port .. The dive mask . includes an audio device .. The communication channel . is connected to the communications port . of the dive computer . and the audio device . within the dive mask .. The input output interface . is connected to the processor . and the communications port ..

In operation the dive computer can play audio content or sound a warning on the audio device via the communications channel. In a variety of embodiments the audio device can be connected to the communications port by a wire. In many embodiments the audio device can be connected to the communications port wirelessly. In a variety of embodiments wireless communication can be achieved using a communication system that complies with the Bluetooth or IEEE 802.15.1 standard.

In many embodiments wireless communication can be achieved using one or more piezoelectric devices. In yet another embodiment the wireless communication link can be implemented using magnetic fields.

In many embodiments the user of the dive computer can specify which warnings will be sent to the audio device by programming the dive computer. In many embodiments the audio device can be a pair of speakers that are placed in close proximity to the users ears within the diving mask or earphones. In many embodiments the audio device can be a single speaker. In several embodiments the speakers can be located in proximity to the user s ears while outside of the diving mask. In many embodiments the dive computer can alert the diver about low air supply decompression requirements or any other type of warning using the audio device. The processor can receive signals from sensors indicating tank air pressure water pressure time elapsed temperature or other sensor measurements. The processor can use the received signals to determine which warnings to present to the diver. One set of warnings can be presented to the diver by default. Another set of warnings can be presented after the dive computer is programmed by the diver.

Warning indicators can also be provided to a diver visually. An embodiment of a dive computer and dive mask with a visual device in accordance with the present invention is illustrated in . The underwater multimedia system includes a dive computer . a dive mask . and a communications channel .. The dive computer includes a processor . an input output interface . and a communications port .. The dive mask . includes a visual device .. The communication channel . is connected to the communications port . of the dive computer . and the visual device . within the dive mask .. The input output interface . is connected to the processor . and the communications port ..

In operation the dive computer can activate visual warnings on the visual device via the communications channel. In a variety of embodiments the visual device can be connected to the communication port by a wire. In many embodiments the visual device can be connected to the communication port wirelessly. In a variety of embodiments wireless communication can be achieved using a communication system that complies with the Bluetooth or IEEE 802.15.1 standard. In many embodiments wireless communication can be achieved using one or more piezoelectric devices. In several embodiments the user of the dive computer can specify which warnings will be sent to the visual device by programming the dive computer. In many embodiments the visual device can include LEDs that are visually noticeable by the diver. In other embodiments the visual device can be any visual indicator capable of catching the attention of the diver when activated. In many embodiments the dive computer can alert the diver about low air supply decompression requirements or any other warning using the visual device.

Divers often remain at certain depths for relatively long periods of time for reasons related to decompression. As a diver is waiting the diver can pass the time by listening to music or watching video stored on the dive computer. A dive computer with a display in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in . The dive computer includes a processor a memory an input output interface and a display among the other items discussed with above. The processor is connected to the memory and the input output device. The input output device is connected to the display.

In operation the dive computer can play video content by request of the diver. In many embodiments the memory can be loaded with audio and or video content. The diver can direct the dive computer to play video content using the keypad. The dive computer can respond by showing the stored video on the display. The diver can also listen to the audio content associated with the video content using earphones see discussion above . In many embodiments the video is stored in a portion of the memory that is implemented using FLASH memory and or a hard disk drive. In several embodiments the video is encoded in a compressed format that includes information enabling synchronization of the video with an accompanying audio track. In a variety of embodiments the processor is configured with software to decode the audio and or video. In other embodiments the video and or audio are decoded using a decoder that is implemented in hardware.

In several embodiments the dive computer is configured to enable a user to upload or download video or audio content to the memory. In a variety of embodiments content can be loaded externally on a removable memory device. The removable memory device can then be connected to the dive computer and the content accessed by a diver. In a variety of embodiments the memory capacity can be large enough to accommodate more than three hours of video content. Three hours of capacity can allow for storage of a movie television show or collection of music. In other embodiments the memory capacity can be large enough to suit whatever storage requirements a diver might have.

In a number of embodiments the video is stored in a format that includes information restricting access to the video and the processor is configured to decode the video in accordance with digital rights granted with respect to the video. A group of embodiments store information indicative of digital rights in the memory . In a number of embodiments the digital rights are stored in an encrypted form.

A user can also direct the dive computer to play audio content using the keypad. In many embodiments the audio content is digital music. In several embodiments the audio content is stored in a compressed format. In a number of embodiments the audio is stored in a format that includes information restricting access to the audio and the processor is configured to decode the audio in accordance with digital rights granted with respect to the audio. A group of embodiments store information indicative of digital rights in the memory . In a number of embodiments the digital rights are stored in an encrypted form.

Often long decompression stops are required at multiple depths leaving a diver to wait underwater for hours. As such submerged divers often have a desire to communicate with people or computers on the surface. is a side view of a submerged diver equipped with a dive computer configured to communicate with a communication device at the surface in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The communication system includes a dive computer . a communication cable and a communication device located above the surface of the water. The communication cable includes a light a weight an underwater connector and a second connector not shown capable of being connected to a computer or other communication device above the surface. The dive computer . includes a keyboard not shown a communication port not shown capable of being connected with the underwater connector and a microphone not shown or other communication equipment allowing the diver or dive computer the ability to communicate with a person or a communication device at the surface.

The communication cable can include multiple conductors. These conductors can include serial communication conductors power and ground. The number of and gauge of serial communication conductors can be selected to support various physical layer protocols such as RS 232 RS 422 RS 485 or other suitable serial communication system protocols. In other embodiments parallel communication can be used over a plurality of communication conductors. In a variety of embodiments one or more serial communication conductors are fiber optic cables. In a variety of embodiments the multiple conductors carry parallel data.

In operation the communication system allows the diver to recharge her dive computer talk or exchange messages with people at the surface download information and or minimize decompression stop time. Having power available on the communication cable allows the diver to recharge her dive computer battery and provides a stable power source in the event the dive computer battery is exhausted. This can prove useful in emergency situations where the dive computer battery is dead and the diver needs to know how to execute her decompression stops.

The power can be supplied at a level appropriate to support the light one or more dive computers and communication from the dive computers to communication devices at the surface. The weight ensures maximum depth of the lower end of the communication cable when it is lowered into the water. The light provides a beacon for the diver to find the communication cable in the event that she has not already connected her dive computer to the communication cable. In a variety of embodiments the light can be any number of colors suitable to get the diver s attention in a dark underwater environment. In many embodiments the light can be a flashing light to further attract a diver s attention to the communication cable. In other embodiments other types of beacons can be used such as sonar or magnetic beacons. In a variety of embodiments the communication cable does not include power. In such case the light can be powered by a battery.

The diver can also use the microphone keyboard or other input device attached to her dive computer to communicate with people via the communication device at the surface. In the illustrated embodiment the communication device at the surface is a computer. In this case the communication can be achieved using two way audio text messages or some other communication method. Using the keyboard microphone or other input device the diver can send details about her dive to people at the surface. In a variety of embodiments the diver instructs the dive computer to send data concerning her recent dive dive log to the surface. In this case the information can be processed and analyzed at the surface before the diver returns to the surface. In a variety of embodiments the diver discusses events or issues related to the dive with medical or dive support personnel at the surface. In this case the diver can engage in the discussion using the two way audio communication or by exchanging text messages. Audio communication over the communication cable can be implemented either by transmission of the analog audio or transmission of a digital representation of the audio using methods known to one skilled in the art.

The computer at the surface can use the dive log information to calculate the duration and depth of any required decompression stops. In this case the surface computer can be more powerful or have more information than the dive computer carried by the diver allowing it to make a more precise calculation of the required decompression stops. This calculation by the surface computer can be relayed to the dive computer below. In this way the calculation made possible by the communication system can save the diver from waiting at decompression stops for more time than necessary. Correspondingly the surface calculation can ensure that the diver stays at her decompression stops for at least the required decompression time. In many embodiments the dive computer can compute the duration and depth of any required decompression stops.

In a variety of embodiments the dive computer downloads audio content from the surface computer. In this way the diver can listen to music news or other audio content while underwater. More specifically the diver can access this content while ascending or making a decompression stop. In many embodiments the dive computer downloads video content or receives a video stream and or audio stream from the surface computer. In this way the diver can watch a movie television or other audiovisual content while underwater. More specifically the diver can access this content while ascending or making a decompression stop.

A flow chart illustrating a method of communication between a dive computer and a communication device at the surface in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The process first stores information indicative of the depth of submersion and the time elapsed during submersion. Once such information is stored the process sends the information indicative of the depth of submersion and the time elapsed during submersion to a communication device via a cable including an underwater connector. Once the information is sent to the communication device the process receives information indicative of required decompression stops where the information indicative of required decompression stops is calculated by the communication device based on the information indicative of depth of submersion and time elapsed during submersion.

A flow chart illustrating a method of communication for a dive computer in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The process first measures the depth of submersion and measures the time elapsed during submersion. Once the values are measured the process stores information including the depth of submersion and the time elapsed during submersion. Once the values are stored the process sends a request for media content. Once the request is sent the process receives media content. Once received the process presents the media content to a diver.

Another dive computer in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The dive computer . is similar to the dive computer shown in with the exception that the dive computer . includes a microphone speaker and telephone transceiver system that enable the dive computer to act as a telephone handset. In the illustrated embodiment the microphone and speaker are connected to the processor via an I O interface and the telephone transceiver system is directly connected to the processor . In other embodiments other configurations of microphones speakers telephone transceiver systems and processors are contemplated that enable the dive computer to be used to make telephone calls via a predetermined telephone network. In a number of embodiments the dive computer communicates via a cell phone network such as a D AMPS CDMA2000 and or a GSM network. In other embodiments the dive computer is configured to communicate via a satellite telephone network and or make emergency calls via any of a number of different communication technologies including a satellite telephone network. In several embodiments the emergency call includes a digital message containing the device s current GPS coordinates. In many embodiments the dive computer acts as an emergency beacon broadcastings its GPS coordinates on an emergency channel. The circuitry of a dive computer in accordance with an embodiment of the invention can be configured in a manner appropriate to the network over which the dive computer can communicate and other circuitry incorporated into the dive computer to enable additional functionality. Examples of such additional circuitry are described above. In many embodiments the dive computer includes a keypad enabling the transmission of text messages and email communications from the dive computer via the telephone network. In a number of embodiments the dive computer includes a display and the dive computer is configured to display digital information such as web pages games email and other digital information received via the telephone network to which the dive computer can connect in addition to information typically associated with a dive computer. In several embodiments the information received via the telephone network can be stored on the dive computer. Examples of such information can include audio files containing music and multimedia files containing audiovisual presentations.

A dive computer in accordance with embodiments of the invention can be implemented using a standard mobile phone handset as the basic platform. Smart phones such as the 3G iPhone manufacture by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. include a microprocessor an operating system a telephone transceiver a GPS receiver an external connector and the ability to download applications to the mobile phone handset. When a pressure transducer is connected to the smart phone a software application installed on the smart phone can perform all of the basic functions of a dive computer. In addition the software application can generate a dive log tying in information captured using the pressure transducer with information captured by components of the mobile phone handset such as GPS coordinates acquired using the GPS receiver accelerometer information for performing dead reckoning images from a camera and or audio recordings. The data capabilities of the mobile phone handset also enable the software application to download information concerning the dive site and upload information captured during the dive such as a dive log to a remote server. The multimedia capabilities of the mobile handset also enable the dive computer assembly to act as a media player. During sustained decompression stops the media player capabilities of the mobile phone handset can be utilized to view video or listen to audio while the dive computer application is executing in the background to monitor decompression time. In many embodiments the dive computer application is configured to interrupt the media player with alerts and or to notify the diver of the completion of a decompression stop. In order for the mobile phone handset to survive in an underwater environment the mobile phone handset and the pressure transducer are typically contained within a waterproof housing. Examples of suitable waterproof housings are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 396 769 to Polani and U.S. Patent Publication 2007 0086273 to Polani et al. the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In many embodiments a combination of external sensors and communication devices are connected to the mobile phone handset including communication devices that enable wireless communication with other sensors. In a number of embodiments information is collected from a pressure transducer connected to a diver s air tank and the information is used to perform airtime remaining calculations.

Although the foregoing embodiments are disclosed as typical it will be understood that additional variations substitutions and modifications can be made to the system as disclosed without departing from the scope of the invention. For example embodiments of the invention can have GPS receivers adapted to be submerged in water that are not connected to the processor. These embodiments log latitude longitude and time information using the GPS receiver and separately log depth and time information using a dive computer. The latitude longitude and time information from the GPS receiver and the depth and time information from the dive computer can be downloaded to the dive computer or another computer and the methods described above can be used to determine position. In addition dive computers in accordance with the present invention can perform functions performed by conventional dive computers such as providing divers with information concerning decompression limits or the amount of air remaining in a tank however it is not a limitation of the invention that the dive computer perform these functions or other functions typically associated with conventional dive computers. Other functions can also be performed by the dive computer that are not traditionally associated with dive computers such as functions normally attributed to personal digital assistants PDAs or other computing devices. In addition dive computers in accordance with the present invention can consist of a conventional dive computer and a microphone and or a digital camera and do not require the inclusion of a GPS receiver. Other embodiments of dive computers in accordance with the present invention can also combine several of the features described above such as a buoy including a GPS antenna a compass and an impeller. In a variety of embodiments the dive computer has a light powered by a solar cell. In a similar embodiment the dive computer has batteries that are recharged using a solar cell. In exemplary embodiments the intensity of the dive computer backlight can be adjusted by the diver. In a variety of embodiments the audio warning can be a high pitched chirping sound. In many embodiments the audio warning can be a constant high pitched sound. In a variety of embodiments the video warning can be a powerful repeating flash. In a variety of embodiments the dive computer can be configured to operate in conjunction with online video and audio content providers. In a variety of embodiments the dive computer can also include a receiver configured to receive emergency broadcasts. In several embodiments the playback of audio and video content or activation of the backlight can be initiated using speech recognition and voice commands.

Once a dive log has been created using a dive computer it is useful to transmit the dive log to a personal computer or server system in order to manipulate share and archive the dive log. An illustration of a dive computer configured to upload dive logs in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The system includes a diver with a dive computer . In several embodiments the dive computer is configured to upload data to a personal computer . In a variety of embodiments the personal computer is configured to upload dive data to the server system . In a number of embodiments the dive computer is configured to upload data to a server system . In several embodiments the dive computer can upload data directly to a personal computer and or a server system via a wired and or wireless connection. In a number of embodiments the dive computer can upload data via a network .

Wireless connections include but are not limited to IEEE 802.11 based wireless connections and Bluetooth connections although any wireless connection can be utilized in accordance with a number of embodiments of the invention. A variety of networks such as but not limited to the Internet can be utilized in accordance with many embodiments of the invention. The dive computer can utilize a variety of transport protocols to upload dive logs in accordance with embodiments of the invention including but not limited to the Transmission Control Protocol and the User Datagram Protocol. In several embodiments dive computers utilize one or more of a variety of application protocols to upload dive logs including but not limited to the Hypertext Transfer Protocol and the File Transfer Protocol. Transport protocols and or application protocols not specifically listed here can be utilized in accordance with the requirements of a variety of embodiments of the invention. In a variety of embodiments the dive computer is configured to create a unique identifier for each dive log.

Dive computers personal computers and or server systems are configured to analyze dive logs in order to generate additional information regarding the dive log share dive information and or interact with the dive log. A process for processing dive logs in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . The process includes receiving one or more dive logs. Dive data is processed . In a variety of embodiments an activity map is generated . In several embodiments a dive profile is generated . In many embodiments data is shared .

In a variety of embodiments a received dive log is uploaded using a system described above with respect to . In several embodiments the received dive log data is generated using a dive computer. In many embodiments the received dive log contains dive data related to one or more dives. Dive data contains a variety of information such as the location of the dive the depth of the dive images captured during the dive video captured during the dive dive alarm data tank pressure and tank specification information tissue loading data oxygen data ascent rate data and other dive related specifications and other information related to the dive. Any information captured before during or a dive can be included in the dive data in accordance with the requirements of specific embodiments of the invention. In several embodiments the dive data includes a unique identifier. In a number of embodiments the dive data is in the DAN DL7 format maintained by the Divers Alert Network of Durham N.C. although any file format can be utilized in accordance with a variety of embodiments of the invention. In many embodiments the dive data is received via an Application Programming Interface API call provided by a dive data processing system. In a number of embodiments a dive log processing system provides a web service for receiving dive data. A variety of techniques for receiving dive data can be utilized in accordance with the requirements of a variety of embodiments of the invention including but not limited to a direct file transfer via a protocol such as the File Transfer Protocol.

In several embodiments processing dive data includes aggregating the dive data. In many embodiments processing dive data includes correlating location information in the dive data with other data such as images video and depth information with the location information. In a number of embodiments processing dive data includes associating dive data from multiple dives. In a variety of embodiments at least one of the dives is a free dive. In several embodiments at least one of the dives is performed using a self contained underwater breathing apparatus. In many embodiments processing dive data includes modifying or adding additional data to the dive data. In several embodiments processing dive data includes synchronizing the modified dive data across a variety of systems including server systems dive computers and personal computers.

In a number of embodiments generating an activity map includes plotting dive site points contained in the processed dive data. In a variety of embodiments the activity map is correlated with a map of the dive site. In many embodiments the map of the dive site is an image of the dive site. In a number of embodiments the map of the dive site is generated using dive site data. A variety of dive site data can be utilized to generate a map of the dive site in accordance with embodiments of the invention including but not limited to site information stored in a database dive data recorded tagged with location information associated with the dive site and geographical information taken from a mapping server system. In several embodiments the dive site points contain links to the dive data and or dive log associated with the dive site point. In a variety of embodiments the dive site points are GPS coordinates and or other geolocation information. In many embodiments the dive site points enable users to access dive data from other dives conducted at that dive site point and or aggregated dive information generated using dive data from multiple dives at the dive site.

In several embodiments dive profile are generated using the dive data. Generating dive profiles include generating a preview of the dive data including but not limited to dive alarm data tank pressure and tank specification information tissue loading data oxygen data ascent rate data and other dive related specifications. In several embodiments generating the dive profile includes coding the dive data to indicate various states or statistics of the dive. For example if a dive is a decompression dive versus a non decompression dive the dive profile can be generated in a variety of ways such as but not limited to using different colors or text or with specific decompression non decompression icons. Other statistics or dive parameters in the processed dive data can be generated in accordance with the requirements of specific embodiments of the invention. In many embodiments portions of the generated dive profile are associated with dive site points contained in the processed dive data. In several embodiments a dive data processing system is configured to display the processed dive data and or the generated dive profiles. A number of techniques can be utilized to display dive data and or dive profiles including but not limited to web pages and applications running on a mobile phone or other personal computer. Other techniques not specifically described can be utilized in accordance with the requirements of many embodiments of the invention.

In a variety of embodiments users can share the processed dive data. In many embodiments sharing dive data includes posting the dive data to a social network such as the Facebook service provided by Facebook Inc. of Menlo Park Calif. the Google service provided by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. and the Divecloud service provided by American Underwater Products Inc. of San Leandro Calif. In a number of embodiments sharing dive data includes transmitting the dive data to a third party via email. Other sharing methods can be utilized in accordance with the requirements of specific embodiments of the invention. In several embodiments the shared dive data includes a dive profile images and or video associated with the dive data. In a number of embodiments the shared dive data includes a dive site point. In a variety of embodiments the shared dive data includes a dive log that can be processed by the recipient of the dive log.

In many embodiments sharing data includes transmitting dive data from one dive computer to another or from one to multiple devices such as personal computers telephones and or server systems. For example divers can share dive data directly with other divers and a dive master can share dive data and automatically set the receiving computer with multiple dive computers in a class setting. In many embodiments the shared data includes configuration information to configure the operation of a dive computer. In a variety of embodiments configuration data includes information utilized to configure a dive computer for an intended operation mode. A variety of operation modes can be utilized in accordance with the requirements of embodiments of the invention including but not limited to simulated dives and dives emulating a remote location. In a number of embodiments the shared is media. Media includes but is not limited to audio data video data text data other types of media not specifically listed can be utilized in accordance with the requirements of many embodiments of the invention. Data can be shared between dive computers in a variety of methods including but not limited to via a network such as the Internet via a wireless or wired connection such as an 802.11 network Bluetooth or any other technology which enables a data connection between a dive computer and another device.

In a number of embodiments relevant advertising is targeted to users based upon diver behavior information determined using the dive data. Advertising can be targeted using a variety of information contained in a dive log including but not limited to dive statistics such as max depth and dive length the number of tanks of air used during one or more dives and or the mix of air used during the dives. For example if a diver has dive data for 25 dives and each dive is 30 ft or shallower that user is not likely to be interested in rebreathers used in deeper dives. Likewise a user who has dive data for 25 dives deeper than 100 feet is likely to be interested in more advanced dive equipment. By targeting advertisements to information present in the processed dive data users are informed of products and services relevant to their dive experience and interests.

A specific system for uploading data from a dive computer to a server system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in and a specific process for processing dive logs in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . However a variety of systems can be utilized to upload data from a dive computer and a variety of processes can be used to process dive logs not specifically described above with respect to and can be utilized in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

Although the present invention has been described in certain specific aspects many additional modifications and variations would be apparent to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the present invention can be practiced otherwise than specifically described without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention should be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined not by the embodiments illustrated but by the appended claims and their equivalents.

