---

title: Adjustable armrest assembly
abstract: An adjustable armrest for a chair is disclosed herein and comprises an assembly of a mounting plate, a mounting base, and two arms. The adjustable armrest's mounting plate is vertically positionable, such that when the mounting plate is depressed, the motion of the mounting plate is restrained relative to the mounting base. Additionally, when the mounting plate is raised vertically, the arms and the mounting plate can be repositioned.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09044098&OS=09044098&RS=09044098
owner: Holland Plastics Corporation
number: 09044098
owner_city: Grand Haven
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131025
---
This application is a non provisional application claiming priority to an earlier filed U.S. provisional patent application entitled ADJUSTABLE ARM REST ASSEMBLY filed Nov. 16 2012 and assigned Ser. No. 61 727 247 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the field of adjustable support surfaces which include armrests for office chairs.

Office chairs are a common fixture in today s office environment providing ergonomically positioned support surfaces which allow their users to remain seated for extended periods of time. It is desirable that office chairs include adjustable features such as adjustable seating height and adjustable lumbar support which may be positioned to suit their individual user. However today s office chairs have armrests which lack the desired level of adjustability. Prior art armrests offer limited forms of adjustment through the use of complex mechanisms often requiring separate releases for each individual motion.

The invention described herein solves these disadvantages by providing a positionable armrest assembly with a novel retention system. This retention system is controlled by the vertical position of the armrest s support surface allowing the retention system to become engaged or disengaged with a single vertical motion without the need for a push button. This invention represents a further improvement over the prior art by reducing the number of moving parts reducing the number of potential failure modes and lowering manufacturing costs.

In one embodiment of the invention the adjustable arm rest for a chair comprises a mounting plate including a base portion having a slot a first arm including a first slot engaging feature a second arm including a second slot engaging feature and a mounting base. The first arm s first slot engaging feature and the second arm s second slot engaging feature are assembled to and slide within the slot in said mounting plate. The first arm and the second arm are then pivotally mounted to the mounting base. This configuration allows the mounting plate to be vertically positioned into an engaged or a non engaged configuration. When in the engaged configuration the rotation of the first and second arms is restrained. When in the non engaged configuration the first and second arms are allowed to rotate.

In another embodiment of the invention the adjustable arm rest for a chair comprises a mounting plate including a base portion having a slot a first arm including a first slot engaging feature a base portion a socket placed through the base portion and a first anti rotation feature on said base portion a second arm including a second slot engaging feature a main shaft and a second anti rotation feature on the main shaft and a mounting base having a first hole and a counterbore. The mounting base further includes a third anti rotation feature on a portion of the side wall inside the hole and a fourth anti rotation feature on the side wall of the counterbore. The first arm and the second arm are pivotally mounted to the mounting base by inserting the second arm s main shaft into the first arm s socket and placing the main shaft into the first hole in the mounting base causing the axis of rotation of the first arm to lie substantially concentric with the axis of rotation of the second arm. The first arm s first slot engaging feature and second arm s second slot engaging feature are then inserted into and slide within the slot in the mounting plate. This assembly allows the mounting plate to be vertically positioned relative to the mounting base creating an engaged and a non engaged configuration.

When the mounting plate is placed into the engaged configuration by pressing the mounting plate downward toward the mounting base the first and the third anti rotation features engage each other thus restraining the first arm from rotating within the base. The second and the fourth anti rotation features also engage each other restraining the second arm from rotating within the base. This prevents the mounting plate from moving relative to the mounting base in at least two degrees of freedom.

When the mounting cover is placed into the non engaged configuration by lifting the mounting plate upward vertically away from the mounting base the first and the second anti rotation features disengage from one another allowing the first arm to rotate within the mounting base. The third and the fourth anti rotation features also disengage from one another allowing the second arm to rotate within the mounting base. This allows the mounting plate to move relative to the mounting base in at least two degrees of freedom.

In still another embodiment of the invention the adjustable arm rest for a chair comprises a first arm including a first slot engaging feature a base portion a socket placed through the base portion and a first anti rotation feature on the base portion a second arm including a second slot engaging feature a main shaft and a second anti rotation feature on a portion of the main shaft a mounting base having a first hole and a counterbore wherein a third anti rotation feature lies on portion of the side wall inside of the hole and a fourth anti rotation feature lies on the on the side wall of the counterbore a mounting plate having a base portion a slot a fore aft restraint system having a ball chain raceway a ball chain a chain tensioner and a cover including a ball chain engagement feature.

In this embodiment the first arm and the second arm are pivotally mounted to the mounting base by inserting the second arm s main shaft into the first arm s socket and then placing the main shaft into the base s first hole causing the axis of rotation of the first arm to lie substantially concentric with the axis of rotation of the second arm. The first arm s first slot engaging feature and second arm s second slot engaging feature are then inserted into the slot where they engage and slide within the slot in the mounting plate. The cover is then fitted to the mounting plate allowing it to be vertically positioned.

This embodiment allows the cover to be depressed toward the mounting base allowing the first and the second anti rotation features to engage one another thereby preventing the first arm from rotating within the mounting base. Similarly the third and the fourth anti rotation features also engage each other preventing the second arm from rotating within the mounting base. Additionally when the cover is depressed the cover s ball chain engaging feature engages the ball chain preventing it from traversing along the ball chain raceway. Since the ball chain is anchored to either or both of first or the second arms each anchored arm is thereby also prevented from traversing along the slot in a fore aft direction. This allows the vertical position of the cover to restrict or allow movement of the cover to relative to the mounting base in at least three degrees of freedom.

For the purposes of the following description the terms upper lower left right front rear and horizontal as well as derivatives of such terms shall relate to the invention as generally oriented in . The additional terms Lateral Vertical Fore Aft and Rotational are particularly depicted in for use in relation to a chair s armrest located in its neutral or non adjusted position. These terms are described to aid the user in understanding particular adjustments to a chair s armrest and are not to be considered as limiting unless expressly stated otherwise. Further it is to be understood that the invention may assume various alternative orientations and configurations except where expressly specified to the contrary. The device illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments of the inventive concepts described herein. Specific dimensions and other physical characteristics relating to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting unless expressly stated otherwise.

One embodiment of the pin arm is shown generally in . The pin arm comprises a pin arm body which is best shown in and is preferably a circular structure . A main shaft extends away from the underside of the body is cylindrical in shape and is centered and normal perpendicular to the body . The main shaft terminates in a main shaft retention feature which is shown in as a snap lock feature . Adjacent to the retention feature is a pin arm anti rotation feature which is represented by a set of teeth in the depicted embodiment.

A pin arm member with a slot engagement feature is attached to the pin arm s body preferably along a portion of the circular structure . In the embodiment of the invention shown in the slot engagement feature is represented by a button shaped protrusion extending from a top surface of a distal end of the pin arm member . A rotational stop is attached to the underside of the pin arm member . Optional ball chain retention features such as pins may also be included on the slot engagement feature and the arm members may include material reduction pockets and reinforcement ribbing .

In one preferred form of the pin arm the pin arm member s reinforcement ribbing may form a wall adjacent to the pin arm s body . This wall is shaped to nest with the socket arm and reduces the lateral motion between the components. A preferred material for the pin arm is a 15 glass filled Nylon however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for a one time deformation of the main shaft retention feature during assembly.

One embodiment of the socket arm is shown generally in and comprises a socket arm body with a cylindrical structure extending from its lower surface . The cylindrical structure further contains an anti rotation feature such as teeth . Attached to the socket arm body is a socket arm member which is preferably attached to the cylindrical structure has a slot engagement feature on its top surface and a rotational stop attached to the lower surface . In the embodiment of the invention shown in the slot engagement feature is represented by a mushroom shaped snap lock protrusion extending from distal end of the socket arm member . Further the lower surface of the arm member depicts optional reinforcement ribbing and material reduction pockets which may be included to reinforce the socket arm member and reduce material usage.

The socket arm body further comprises a through hole sized to receive the main shaft of the pin arm and preferably has a recess in its top surface sized to receive the pin arm s body . In a preferred form the recess s depth is sized to allow the top surface of the pin arm member to lie co planar with the top surface of the socket arm member and is diametrically sized to provide lateral support between the two components. A preferred material for the socket arm is a Nylon 6 with 30 glass fill creating a part with a minimum of flexure however any other suitable material may be chosen providing it is appropriately rigid.

One embodiment of the mounting base is shown in and and comprises a base a stem extending away from the base and a hole along the stem s central axis. The hole is preferably a through hole passing through both the base and the stem and is sized to receive the main shaft of the pin arm . The stem comprises a retention feature and an anti rotation feature located in the lower portion of the hole . This anti rotation feature mates with the anti rotation feature on the pin arm s main shaft and is preferably in the form of teeth . A counterbore is placed into the base preferably concentric with the through hole and is sized to accept the socket arm s cylindrical structure . The counterbore has a mating anti rotation feature such as teeth located along its outer wall .

It is preferred that the hole in the mounting base is sized to fit the pin arm s main shaft as far into the base as possible in order to create the longest reactionary moment arm between pin arm s main shaft and the mounting base s through hole . Thus when the main shaft is increased in length it creates a longer reactionary moment arm which removes much of the play or spacing tolerance between the components in the assembly preventing the assembled components from feeling loose to the end user. Further play in the assembly may be reduced by including a draft angle on the anti rotation features of the socket arm the mounting base and the pin arm causing the components to contact one another as they are translated vertically downward into the mounting base . This creates a transitional or slight interference fit between the components when they are fully seated creating a tight fitting assembly.

One or more recesses may be placed into the upper face of the mounting base and sized in width to create a range of motion limiter for both the pin arm and the socket arm . The range of motion limiter operates by receiving the rotational stops of each component allowing them a limited degree of travel between a first end and a second end . A preferred material for the mounting base is a Nylon 6 with 30 glass fill creating a part with a minimum of flexure however any other suitable material may be chosen provided it is acceptably rigid.

The mounting base is preferably shaped to engage a chair s armrest column one embodiment of which is shown in and in cross section in . In this embodiment the mounting base further comprises a set of retention features such as inclined planes which engage a set of locking features on the armrest column . This embodiment further comprises one or more support structures such as a support shelf which lends structural support to the lower surface of the mounting base when assembled. An optional vertical adjustment release may also be included to allow for the adjustment of the vertical position of the positionable armrest assembly relative to the seating surface .

The optional vertical adjustment release is preferably comprised of a rectangular shaft with a handle portion on its first end and a vertical adjustment actuator located on a second end . If the vertical adjustment release is included it is preferred that the mounting base be modified by adding a vertical slot sized to accommodate the rectangular shaft . A cutout window should also be added to the armrest column so that the vertical adjustment release may transit vertically within the mounting base s vertical slot .

The optional vertical adjustment release as shown in is actuated by lifting its handle potion vertically. This in turn moves the rectangular shaft and its vertical adjustment actuator engaging a vertical adjustment mechanism not shown located inside of the armrest column . Once the vertical adjustment mechanism is actuated the vertical height of the armrest assembly may be adjusted. Vertical adjustment actuators are well known in the art and various designs may be incorporated within the armrest column . A preferred material for the vertical adjustment release is a Nylon 6 with 30 glass fill creating a part with a minimum of flexure however any other suitable material may be chosen which is suitably rigid.

One embodiment of the mounting plate used with the adjustable armrest assembly is shown in and in cross section with the pin arm socket arm and mounting base in . This embodiment of the mounting plate comprises a substantially planar base section having at least one slot . The mounting plate also preferably has a plurality of side walls extending upwardly from the periphery of the substantially planar base section . These side walls preferably also have a cover retention feature located near the top of the side walls which allows a cover to be fitted to the mounting plate. The cover retention feature is preferably placed with sufficient vertical spacing to allow the cover to traverse in a vertical direction relative to the mounting plate without separating from the mounting plate . A preferred material for the mounting plate is a Nylon 6 with 30 glass fill creating a part with a minimum of flexure however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for a one time deformation of the cover retention feature during assembly without fracturing.

In the embodiment shown in the mounting plate contains two slots that pass entirely through the planar base section . In embodiments containing more than one slot it is preferred that the plurality of slots be positioned to lie co linear with one another along the midsection of the substantially planar base section . It is also preferred that the slots be sized to receive the slot engagement features of the pin arm and the socket arm . In cases where the slot engagement feature is a button shaped protrusion such as that shown on the pin arm in a receiving window should be included in the slot to allow the button to pass through the planar base section allowing for assembly of the components. In cases where the slot engagement feature is a mushroom shaped snap lock protrusion such as is shown on the socket arm in the slot need not include a receiving window as the mushroom will deflect as it is passed through the planar base section s slot locking into place. Alternate attachment methods such as screws nuts rivets press fit bushing and other fastening methods which would join the slot engagement feature to the mounting plate are suitable so long as the slot engaging feature may traverse along the slot . Since the slot engagement features are able to traverse the slot in the mounting plate a fore aft retention system is needed to limit their motion in the Fore Aft direction in the direction of the slot .

One form of a fore aft retention system is shown in A B and A and includes a ball chain fitted to a chain raceway located on the substantially planar base section of the mounting plate . This raceway preferably contains a chain retention guide to prevent the ball chain from lifting away from the mounting plate and a tensioner which keeps the ball chain taught. In the embodiment shown in the ball chain is attached to the pin arm s slot engagement feature . Sonic welding glue or other fastening means may be used so long as the ball chain stays attached to the slot engagement feature . The ball chain is thus forced to traverse the raceway whenever the pin arm s slot engagement feature moves along the slot in the mounting plate . Should the ball chain be restrained at any point along the raceway the pin arm will likewise be restrained.

As is shown in the enlarged view of the cover further comprises a vertical retention feature which allows the cover to be lifted away from the mounting plate at a sufficient height to allow the chain engaging feature to separate from the ball chain . This allows the pin arm s slot engaging feature to freely traverse within the slot . This raised vertical orientation is called the Disengaged configuration. The cover s vertical retention feature prevents the cover from separating from the mounting plate in this configuration. A preferred material for the cover is a 10 Glass filled polypropylene however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for a one time deformation of the vertical retention feature during assembly without fracturing.

One method of assembling the adjustable armrest assembly includes fitting the main shaft of the pin arm into the through hole of the socket arm . The slot engaging feature of the pin arm is then fitted to the slot of the mounting plate and in the particular example shown in the pin arm s button shaped protrusion is fitted into the receiving window of the slot in the mounting plate . The slot engaging feature of the socket arm is then fitted to the slot by forcing the mushroom shaped snap lock protrusion through the slot . The main shaft of the pin arm is then fitted to the hole in the mounting base until the main shaft retention feature engages the retention feature of the mounting base . The rotational stops of the pin arm and socket arm are then aligned with the recess in the upper face of the mounting base creating the range of motion limiter for arms . A fore aft retention system such as the ball chain is then fitted to the mounting plate and then the cover is then fitted over the mounting plate as shown in . In the embodiment shown therein the vertical retention feature located on the side wall of the cover is passed over cover retention feature located near the top of the side walls on the mounting plate retaining the cover to the mounting plate and completing the adjustable armrest assembly .

In operation the positionable armrest assembly comprises at least two configurations an Engaged configuration and a Disengaged configuration. One embodiment of the invention is shown in in both configurations. In the Engaged configuration the anti rotation features on the pin and socket arms engage the anti rotation features on the mounting base preventing the pin arm and the socket arm from rotating. This prevents the mounting plate from translating laterally or rotating about the mounting base . The assembly is Disengaged by lifting the mounting plate vertically which causes the attached pin arm and socket arm to lift vertically since they are coupled to the mounting plate via their slot engaging feature . When the pin arm and socket arm are lifted vertically they separate from the anti rotation features on the mounting base allowing the pin arm and socket arm to rotate. This allows the mounting plate to be positioned from a neutral position in to a Lateral Right orientation shown in a Lateral Left orientation shown in as well as a Clockwise orientation shown in and a Counterclockwise orientation shown in as well as in any intermediate positions there between. Lateral motion and rotations are accomplished through the rotation of the arms within the mounting base causing their respective slot engaging features to slide along the slot .

Additionally since the cover is vertically positionable relative to the mounting plate the cover may be lowered proximate to the mounting plate while in the Engaged configuration as shown in . In this Engaged configuration the ball chain engaging feature engages the ball chain preventing the slot engaging feature of the pin arm from translating along the slot in the mounting plate . Since this motion along the slot is generally in the fore aft direction any device restraining this motion may be referred to as a fore aft restraint. Here the fore aft restraint prevents translation along the direction of the slot of the mounting plate and the cover relative to the mounting base .

Similarly when the cover is moved vertically away from the mounting plate Disengaged configuration the ball chain engaging feature separates from the ball chain allowing the slot engaging feature of the pin arm to translate along the slot in the mounting plate . This allows the fore aft translation of the mounting plate and cover relative to the mounting base . This fore aft translation is shown in wherein the mounting plate is positioned into a Fore orientation in and into an Aft orientation in .

In operation the cover is coupled to the mounting plate when the vertical retention feature on the cover engages the cover retention feature on the mounting plate . A vertical motion applied to the cover results in a vertical translation of the mounting plate which in turn lifts the pin arm and the socket arm away from the mounting base causing their anti rotation features to decouple. Therefore a single upward vertical motion when applied to the cover can disengage the armrest assembly s 50 anti rotation features and the ball chain engagement feature simultaneously thereby allowing the armrest assembly to be positioned in a combination of orientations such as Aft Counter clockwise in and Aft Counterclockwise Lateral right in .

Additional embodiments of the inventive idea expressed herein include but are not limited to an alternate embodiment of the armrest assembly as shown in which demonstrates some of the anticipated variations usable with the novel armrest assembly. This exemplary embodiment comprises a mounting column an alternate socket arm an alternate pin arm an alternate mounting plate a ball chain a ball gear and an alternate cover .

The alternate pin arm and alternate socket arm are similar to the pin arm and socket arm used with previous assembly however the alternate pin arm and alternate socket arms are modified in that they are both capable of engaging a separate ball chain via their respective slot engaging features .

A mounting column shown in is similar to the mounting base shown in however it is altered by combining the previous armrest column and mounting base into a single part. An alternate mounting plate shown in is similar to the mounting plate in but is modified to have two chain raceways for its alternate fore aft restraint system . In this embodiment a ball gear engages a ball chain which restrains the fore aft orientation of the alternate cover relative to the mounting column .

One embodiment of the ball gear is shown in and includes an anti rotation feature on its upper surface . The anti rotation feature preferably includes a mechanical lock or a friction inducing surface such as a set of teeth . The lower surface of the ball gear has a retention feature which is assembled to a ball gear mounting hole placed through the alternate mounting plate See anchoring the ball gear to the alternate mounting plate in a manner that allows it to freely rotate. The retention feature as shown in comprises a set of snap locking features spaced equidistant to one another in a circular pattern. The ball gear further includes a circular recess on its lower surface which mates with and receives support from a raised circular support on the alternate mounting plate . The lower surface of the ball gear further comprises a set of ball engagement recesses which are sized to engage the individual balls of a ball chain used with the alternate embodiment of the armrest assembly . A preferred material for the ball gear is an acetyl plastic which allows for deformation of the snap lock feature during assembly but provides a low coefficient of friction to the alternate mounting plate . Alternately any other suitable material may also be utilized.

The ball gear is shown installed on the alternate mounting plate in however prior to mounting the ball gear to the alternate mounting plate the ball chain is formed into a loop by cutting the chain and joining its ends together. The ball chain is then fitted around the two chain raceways and then the ball gear is assembled to the alternate mounting plate engaging the ball engagement recesses of the ball gear as shown in cross section in . A preferred material for the ball chain may be stainless steel other suitable material may be chosen including polymeric materials such as plastics. Similarly the ball chain may be substituted with wire cabling traditional linked chain rubber belts or any other similar product.

The two chain raceways best shown in control the position of the ball chains over top the two slots . The ball chain is anchored to the slot engaging features of the alternate pin arm and alternate socket arm by glue friction welding or any other suitable retention method including capturing the ball chain in between the tines of a mushroom shaped snap lock protrusion .

One embodiment of the alternate cover is shown in and includes a substantially planar cover plate an optional soft covering such as reaction injection molded foam or another soft material a plurality of side walls sized to fit over the alternate mounting plate a vertical retention feature and a fore aft retention feature . In the depicted embodiment the fore aft retention feature comprises a ball gear engagement surface in the shape of teeth molded into the cover and positioned to engage and restrain the upper surface of the ball gear when the alternate cover is brought proximate the alternate mounting plate .

The alternate cover s vertical retention feature as shown in is a snap lock feature located on the side wall of the alternate cover and is spaced away from the alternate mounting plate at a distance sufficient to allow the alternate cover to travel vertically. The vertical travel should be sufficient to allow the alternate cover s fore aft retention feature to decouple from the upper surface of the ball gear allowing it to freely rotate. A preferred material for the alternate cover is a 10 Glass filled polypropylene however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for a one time deformation of the snap lock feature during assembly.

Additional embodiments of the lateral rotational restraints are embodied by preventing the pin arm and socket arms from rotating within the mounting base . Alternate anti rotation methodologies include but are not limited to placing friction inducing features such as teeth or rubber pads at the base of the rotational stops on the pin arm and socket arm as shown in . These friction inducing features ideally engage the base of the range of motion limiter limiting rotation of the pin arm and socket arm within the mounting base . The friction inducing feature may alternately be relocated into the mounting base s range of motion limiter and engage the rotational stops on the pin arm and socket arm . These friction inducing features decouple when the mounting plate is lifted vertically. Examples of friction inducing features include the use of mating surfaces or coverings having a high coefficient of friction such as rubber or textured surfaces such as knurled stippled crenellated faces or teeth.

Another embodiment of the lateral rotational restraints is shown in and includes an alternate friction inducing feature such as teeth located on the upper face of the mounting base . These teeth engage the underside of pin arm and socket arm ideally engaging a mating set of teeth or a rubber pad thereby preventing rotational motion of the pin arm or socket arm . The alternate friction inducing features decouple when the mounting plate is lifted vertically lifting the attached pin arm and socket arm .

A still further embodiment of the lateral rotational restraints is shown in and includes an upper surface friction inducing feature mounted onto the top surface of the pin arm and socket arm . This upper surface friction inducing feature engages the substantially planar base section of the mounting plate when the mounting plate is depressed vertically. In order to have the upper surface friction inducing feature decouple from the mounting plate additional vertical travel must be allowed between the slot engaging features and the mounting plate . This additional vertical travel can be created by leaving additional spacing between the top surfaces of the arms and the bottom of the slot engaging features . These upper surface friction inducing features decouple when the mounting plate is lifted vertically.

Additional embodiments of the fore aft restraint include a toothed element molded to a portion of the ball chain . When the cover is depressed the toothed element on the ball chain engages a friction inducing surface on the upper cover . This friction inducing surface may be a rubber pad or may be a section of mating teeth molded into the cover . A still further embodiment of a fore aft restraint is shown in and includes fore aft friction inducing features such as rubber pads or teeth located on the top of the slot engaging features of the pin arm and socket arm . The fore aft friction inducing features are preferably sized to engage the cover when the cover is placed into the Engaged configuration thereby preventing further motion of the slot engaging features along the slot .

Additional features which are anticipated but not shown in the attached Figures include additional chain raceways and additional ball gears. The chain raceways may also be relocated from the mounting plate onto the cover . The cover may also incorporate additional reinforcement ribs or material reduction pockets similar to those used with the pin arm or socket arm . Additionally the mounting base may be modified to include two holes each with their own anti rotation feature and pin arm . Further the materials described herein may be substituted for any other suitable material such as ferrous and non ferrous metals or alternate plastic compositions and may further include plastic components with metal inserts. Particularly it is anticipated that the plastic anti rotation features and gears may be freely replaced with metal equivalents in order to increase the strength and longevity of these components. Additional forms of anti rotation features known in the art may be substituted for those described herein so long as they properly decouple when the mounting plate or cover is lifted vertically.

The above description is considered that of the preferred embodiments only. Modifications to the invention will occur to those skilled in the art and those who make use of the invention. Therefore it is understood that the embodiments shown in the drawings and the examples set forth herein are described merely for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention as interpreted according to the principles of patent law including the doctrine of equivalents.

