---

title: Cross platform messaging
abstract: Described herein are methods and systems for displaying an email conversation similar to an instant message format by integrating aspects of an email system with an instant messaging interface. In one aspect, messages may be sent over existing email channels using email protocols through email servers and an email system (e.g., email client and/or email server) may identify the messages as cross-platform messages (CPM) based on whether the message body includes either no or only predefined content, or the message includes a predefined unique identifier. If a message is identified as a CPM then the message is treated similar to an instant message and may be displayed in a threaded view. In some embodiments, messages having content in the body may be treated as conventional email messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438554&OS=09438554&RS=09438554
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 09438554
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130307
---
The present application is a non provisional of and claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 608 275 filed Mar. 8 2012 entitled CROSS PLATFORM MESSAGING herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure relates generally to electronic messaging between data processing devices over one or more networks. More specifically the disclosure provides methods and systems to distinguish messages and or message threads based on message content or the lack thereof.

Using email to carry out brief conversations can be inefficient and frustrating. Employees often mitigate these inefficiencies by writing emails that include conversational content in the title but no content in the body of the message. Although other conversation modalities such as short message service SMS MMS etc. and texting facilitate quick text based conversations these modalities often have a high per unit cost and may not be compatible with all platforms and devices e.g. desktops laptops tablets. In many instances SMS services and the like may only be supported by select devices and are generally incompatible with multiple platforms operating systems and applications. Furthermore many known message solutions are independent systems not integrated with email. For example Apple iMessage provides an alternative method for combining SMS and IM but this method can only be used on iOS devices or on a device executing an Apple operating system and is not compatible with non Apple devices or operating systems. Similarly Research in Motion RIM BlackBerry Messenger BBM provides instant messaging but only for RIM devices.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure to provide a basic understanding of aspects of the systems and methods described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the disclosure or to delineate the scope of the disclosure. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description provided below.

To overcome limitations in the prior art described above and to overcome other limitations that will be apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification the present disclosure describes methods and systems for integrating instant messaging and email messaging into a unified system that is agnostic as to the device platform or environment within which it is deployed and or used. According to aspects of the methods and systems described herein instant messages may be sent over existing email channels using email protocols through email servers. The email system e.g. email client and or email server may differentiate between traditional email messages and instant messages based on predetermined criteria. This criteria may be whether the message includes no content in the message body the message contains only predefined content in the message body or the message contains or is associated with predefined metadata or a digital tag indicating that the message was sent from a special client application e.g. one that handles cross platform messages CPM as described further herein. When the email system identifies a message as a cross platform message CPM by determining that the body of the message is blank or contains only predefined content e.g. form text user signature etc. or contains a unique ID or metadata tag generated by the CPM app then the email system treats the message like an instant message and may display the message in a threaded view. Messages having content in the body other than predefined content may be treated by the email system as conventional email messages and may be excluded from a set of messages displayed in the threaded view.

In the following description of the various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The disclosure is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or being carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. Rather the phrases and terms used herein are to be given their broadest interpretation and meaning. The use of including and comprising and variations thereof is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items and equivalents thereof. The use of the terms mounted connected coupled positioned engaged and similar terms is meant to include both direct and indirect mounting connecting coupling positioning and engaging.

The term network as used herein and depicted in the drawings refers not only to systems in which remote storage devices are coupled together via one or more communication paths but also to stand alone devices that may be coupled from time to time to such systems that have storage capability. Consequently the term network includes not only a physical network but also a content network which is comprised of the data attributable to a single entity which resides across all physical networks.

The components may include data server web server and client computers . Data server provides overall access control and administration of databases and control software for performing one or more illustrative aspects of the disclosure as described herein. Data server may be connected to web server through which users interact with and obtain data as requested. Alternatively data server may act as a web server itself and be directly connected to the Internet. Data server may be connected to web server through the network e.g. the Internet via direct or indirect connection or via some other network. Users may interact with the data server using remote computers e.g. using a web browser to connect to the data server via one or more externally exposed web sites hosted by web server . Client computers may be used in concert with data server to access data stored therein or may be used for other purposes. For example from client device a user may access web server using an Internet browser as is known in the art or by executing a software application that communicates with web server and or data server over a computer network such as the Internet .

Servers and applications may be combined on the same physical machines and retain separate virtual or logical addresses or may reside on separate physical machines. illustrates just one example of a network architecture that may be used and those of skill in the art will appreciate that the specific network architecture and data processing devices used may vary and are secondary to the functionality that they provide as further described herein. For example services provided by web server and data server may be combined on a single server.

Each component may be any type of known computer server or data processing device. Data server e.g. may include a processor controlling overall operation of the rate server . Data server may further include RAM ROM network interface input output interfaces e.g. keyboard mouse display printer etc. and memory . I O may include a variety of interface units and drives for reading writing displaying and or printing data or files. Memory may further store operating system software for controlling overall operation of the data processing device control logic for instructing data server to perform one or more aspects of the disclosure as described herein and other application software providing secondary support and or other functionality which may or may not be used in conjunction with aspects of the present disclosure. The control logic may also be referred to herein as the data server software . Functionality of the data server software may refer to operations or decisions made automatically based on rules coded into the control logic made manually by a user providing input into the system and or a combination of automatic processing based on user input e.g. queries data updates etc. .

Memory may also store data used in performance of one or more aspects of the disclosure including a first database and a second database . In some embodiments the first database may include the second database e.g. as a separate table report etc. . That is the information can be stored in a single database or separated into different logical virtual or physical databases depending on system design. Devices may have similar or different architecture as described with respect to device . Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the functionality of data processing device or device as described herein may be spread across multiple data processing devices for example to distribute processing load across multiple computers to segregate transactions based on geographic location user access level quality of service QoS etc.

One or more aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in computer usable or readable data and or computer executable instructions such as in one or more program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices as described herein. Generally program modules e.g. the control logic include software routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types when executed by a processor in a computer or other device. The modules may be written in a source code programming language that is subsequently compiled for execution or may be written in a scripting language such as but not limited to HTML or XML. The computer executable instructions may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk optical disk removable storage media solid state memory RAM etc. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. In addition the functionality may be embodied in whole or in part in firmware or hardware equivalents such as integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGA and the like. Particular data structures may be used to more effectively implement one or more aspects of the disclosure and such data structures are contemplated within the scope of computer executable instructions and computer usable data described herein.

Aspects described herein provide an improved instant messaging service usable with and in some instances initiated within an existing email and or personal information management PIM infrastructure. Stated differently aspects described herein provide the ability to use a single messaging system for more effective use of email short message services SMS MMS etc. and instant messaging in a single cross platform environment. The messages of the improved instant messaging services may be referred herein as cross platform messages CPM messages which may be processed in various embodiments described herein alongside conventional e mail messages and or instant messages.

With reference to a personal information management PIM client may be adapted to provide an integrated Instant Message IM feature alongside existing services supporting email contacts calendar Tasks Notes Journal Shortcuts etc. Integrated IM feature alternatively may be included as a plug in for existing PIM software e.g. MICROSOFT s OUTLOOK APPLE s MAIL and IBM s LOTUS NOTES . Integrated IM feature may also be included as a plug in for use with various instant messaging services e.g. AMERICA ONLINE s INSTANT MESSENGER YAHOO s MESSENGER also referred herein as third party instant messaging services. The client or plug in may integrate third party instant messages using an application programming interface API made available by the producer of the third party instant messaging service. An email client adapted with an instant messaging service according to aspects described herein is referred to as a cross platform messaging CPM system. Various aspects will be described herein as being performed by a PIM client or CPM client. A PIM client that is capable of distinguishing between CPM messages and traditional e mail messages may be referred to as a CPM capable PIM client. In some embodiments a CPM client may be used interchangeably with a CPM capable PIM client. However in some embodiments a CPM client may be separate from or used in conjunction with a CPM capable PIM client see e.g. . Additionally while certain features may be discussed in terms of being executed by a CPM client these features may in some arrangements be executed by a CPM capable PIM client or vice versa .

According to an aspect a unified inbox may be used to access one or both of email and or instant messaging . Instant messaging content area may be split into one or more IM threads . . . . In the present example three threads are shown which a user may navigate between using the illustrated scroll bar. Each thread may indicate the parties to the conversation with corresponding messages in the thread e.g. based on shading text or other visual cues. CPM capable PIM client may automatically sort the threads based on the name of the other party to the conversation based on which thread has the most recently sent and or received message or based on other predefined criteria. CPM capable PIM client may also include a new message control as well as other controls for forward reply delete etc. not shown . Each thread may comprise one or more individual messages . In embodiments where cross platform messages are shown alongside third party instant messaging services a user may not be able to distinguish between a displayed cross platform message thread and a thread of the third party instant messaging service e.g. thread appears similar to a YAHOO MESSENGER thread .

According to an aspect described herein CPM capable PIM client or an associated CPM capable PIM server may be adapted to analyze the subject line and or contents of a message to determine whether the message is intended as an email message an IM message or a cross platform message. In some embodiments a cross platform message and an email message may use the same message format as previously used by CPM capable PIM client for traditional email messages. However CPM capable PIM client may be adapted to treat and present a received message as a cross platform message CPM when one of any predefined criteria occur. Such criteria may include any one or more of 1 the message has content only in the subject and the message body is empty or null 2 the message body contains only predefined content such as a user s prepopulated signature or other form text and 3 the message includes a metadata tag inserted by another CPM client indicating the message should be treated as a CPM referred to herein as a CPM tag . In essence messages are treated differently based on whether there is any significant content in the body of the message if the body of the message is left blank or unedited or if there is data embedded in the message allowing a CPM capable PIM client to identify the message as a CPM.

For example CPM capable PIM client may analyze a message and when there is no content in the body of the message e.g. the sender only typed text into the subject line or the CPM tag is present CPM capable PIM client may treat the message similar to instant messages as opposed to an email and therefore display the CPM in IM content area instead of email content area as further described below. By treating these cross platform messages in a manner similar to instant messages users inboxes remain less cluttered and short messages between users can be presented in a threaded view.

With reference to CPM capable PIM client may comprise a cross platform messages CPM client embedded within the PIM client . CPM client can execute within the context of a PIM client e.g. CPM capable PIM client to handle messages identified as cross platform messages and therefore enable the PIM client to be CPM capable . In one instance CPM client can analyze and filter all email messages to display messages identified as cross platform messages within an instant message interface provided by CPM client . CPM client in some embodiments is a plugin executing as a part of the CPM capable PIM client .

In other embodiments CPM client executes as a standalone application in communication with a PIM client and able to filter email messages received by the PIM client and or instant messages received via a third party instant messaging service. In arrangements where the CPM client may communicate with a third party instant messaging service a user may be able to reply and send a CPM and a third party instant message using the same standalone application.

With reference to CPM client can comprise predefined content such as common phrases and responses. These phrases can be hard coded into the CPM client or can be configured by an administrator. In some instances commonly used phrases can be identified as such and included in the group of predefined content. A user need only select a predefined phrase or response to respond to a message displayed within CPM client .

In yet another aspect described herein CPM capable PIM client or an associated PIM server may analyze the content of the message to identify a unique identifier CPM tag to determine whether the message should be displayed as an email message or an IM message. The CPM tag can be embedded within the body of the email message within the title of the email message or as metadata associated with the email message. The CPM tag can comprise any combination of numbers and characters in many instances unique identifiers are predetermined and incorporated into an email message by the CPM capable PIM client or by an application executing within the context of PIM client e.g. a plugin such as CPM client . Determining whether an email message is a cross platform message can include searching for the existence of a particular unique identifier or in some cases analyzing a found unique identifier.

CPM capable PIM client may use the content of a found CPM tag to configure an instant message interface. For example a CPM tag may include content directing either CPM capable PIM client or an application executing within the context of CPM capable PIM client to concatenate the message onto an existing conversation. CPM tag content may comprise instructions for formatting the look and feel of a conversation such as the title of the conversation or the visual theme of a conversation. In other aspects the CPM tag may direct CPM capable PIM client to display the instant message in an instant message interface embedded into CPM capable PIM client or may direct CPM capable PIM client to display the instant message in an instant message application executing separate from CPM capable PIM client .

In some embodiments the content of the message may include a history of messages passed between users. This history may have been embedded by a CPM capable PIM client or CPM client. For example CPM capable PIM client may insert HTML code that replicates the instant message interface embedded into CPM capable PIM client e.g. include a history of messages transmitted to from Mark Smith coded to look similar to thread window . In such embodiments a recipient of the cross platform message e.g. Mark Smith of thread window may not be executing a client capable of determining cross platform messages e.g. not execute a client similar to CPM client or CPM capable PIM client but may still be able to process the cross platform message as a normal e mail message. In some arrangements the subject of a cross platform message may be included in the embedded history as the most recent message in the conversation between the users. If the recipient e.g. Mark Smith of thread window responds with a new message CPM capable PIM client may determine it is a cross platform message and may update the history between the users according to the received message so that any embedded history may include the new message. The history of messages may be retrieved from a database of messages and threads. Additionally the embedded history may be time based. For example the embedded history may include only messages that were sent and received within a threshold time period.

Additionally an image may be included in the message e.g. in the body of the message or as metadata that is for use as a user identifier also referred interchangeably as a user identifier image such as an avatar user icon or the like. For example a CPM capable PIM client may extract the user identifier image from the message and display it in the user interface alongside every message so as to identify the message s sender. provide examples of a user interface that displays images along with a message s text. In some arrangements the sender may be able to select what image is displayed alongside his or her cross platform messages. In others a recipient may be able to select e.g. via a user profile what image is displayed alongside cross platform messages from a particular sender.

In step CPM capable PIM client may receive a message from any type of PIM client e.g. CPM capable or not . For example a recipient may receive an email message generated by APPLE MAIL and display that message in an instant message interface embedded within an instance of MICROSOFT OUTLOOK. That email recipient then may respond to the APPLE MAIL message via the instant message interface such that the email sender receives the instant message reply as an email message displayed within their instance of APPLE MAIL. Email recipients can also receive email messages from any type of platform. For example an email recipient may receive an email message generated by a BLACKBERRY device and display that message as an instant message within an instance message interface executing on email recipient s APPLE IPHONE. An email recipient may respond to the email message using the instant message interface such that email sender receives the instant message reply as an email message on email sender s BLACKBERRY. In some instances CPM capable PIM client can receive messages from any type of PIM client regardless of whether that client executes a CPM client application or is otherwise CPM capable.

In step CPM capable PIM client determines whether message corresponds to a current thread window. For example CPM capable PIM client might determine whether message corresponds to an existing thread based on a Message ID of the received message based on a Thread Index field of the received message based on a To field based on a From field based on a sender of the received message or based on some other criteria that correlates messages as belonging to the same thread. If no thread window currently exists then in step CPM capable PIM client creates a new thread window for message . In step CPM capable PIM client displays received message in the appropriate thread window e.g. window . CPM capable PIM client may also shade message in window or display message in a different color to indicate that the message was received from someone else as opposed to being a message sent by the user of CPM capable PIM client .

As described above a CPM capable PIM client may display incoming email type messages in an email interface or an instant messaging interface based on whether the message is a CPM message. CPM messages which may be for display in the instant messaging interface the CPM capable PIM client may display the CPM messages in a separate threaded view similar to SMS or IM chat. In some embodiments CPM capable PIM client may display a notification that a new IM message was received. When the user clicks on the notification a threaded conversation view may be presented with all thread windows with one or more contacts. Users or system admins may also be able to set whether new messages are displayed on top of a thread or at the bottom. Additionally each message thread may include an unread count indicator not shown .

The user experience of the displayed cross platform messages may be familiar to any SMS IM user but may be integrated within an email client or as a plug in side bar for MICROSOFT OUTLOOK or other Mail app . Aspects described herein may also be included within a mobile mail app e.g. by displaying only the relevant thread window when a user clicks on a new message notification. The thread windows may also be displayed as separate application windows or as its own application window separate from the PIM client s window for e mail messages.

With reference to and when the user of CPM capable PIM client desires to respond to message the user may create a message in response. When CPM capable PIM client sends message CPM capable PIM client may also display message in thread window . The user with which PIM client is communicating may similarly compose and respond with subject only message which CPM capable PIM client may then display in thread window . When the user of CPM capable PIM client desires to respond to message the user may create a message in response. When CPM capable PIM client sends message CPM capable PIM client may also display message in thread window

Various options and modifications may be made to enhance the user experience. For example some email programs include standard signatures in the body of every message regardless of whether the user actually types anything into the body of the message. In step CPM capable PIM client or a CPM capable PIM server may ignore signatures when determining whether the message is deemed a cross platform message a CPM message . In some aspects a CPM capable PIM client or a CPM client may analyze message content to determine whether a signature is present e.g. by searching for common message closings such as Best Regards Sincerely and the like and ignore any content after the identified message closing. The CPM capable PIM client or the CPM client may also search for a closing by matching the senders name in the message body against the senders email or other ID from which the message was sent. For example a CPM client may identify a closing signature by comparing a sender s email address e.g. johndoe acme.com to the text Sincerely John in the body of the message. Any heuristic may be used that is usable to identify text not specifically typed by a user into that message. A CPM client or CPM capable PIM client may similarly maintain a database e.g. database or of senders and repetitive content received in multiple messages from that sender. The presence of common repetitive text from a single sender may be used as an indication that that particular text is a signature or some other form content and thus may be ignored by the CPM client or CPM capable PIM client when determining whether the message has any content in the message body.

CPM capable PIM client or CPM capable PIM server may assign a new thread ID to a message to independently maintain a database e.g. database and or of messages and threads. In some arrangements a user may be able to search the database to select a particular thread or message for display. Another optional aspect may include a security feature whereby CPM capable PIM client or a CPM capable PIM server may filter or limit the domains and or contacts from which subject only messages are accepted or from which subject only messages are displayed as IM messages rather than as traditional email messages. For example an administrator at a particular company could limit cross platform message processing for only those messages sent within a domain associated with that company thereby excluding subject only message processing for someone within the company communicating with someone outside of the company. CPM capable PIM client may further include security features that allow for a user or admin to define what messages or threads are recorded in the database of messages and threads.

An additional security feature may include an ability to apply one or more secure messaging protocols to the cross platform messages such as encryption via public keys of Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions S MIME or other encryption scheme. Users or system admins may be able to select the security features that are applied by a CPM capable PIM client to cross platform messages.

A CPM capable PIM client or CPM client may also communicate with other clients to determine whether another user of a thread window is currently present or not. The thread window may be modified to reflect whether the other user is present or not. For example Mark Smith of thread window may be shown in italics when not present and bold when present. One or more graphical indicators may also be used to indicate presence. Various processes may be used to determine presence. For example presence may be determined by a PIM client or CPM client. For example the PIM client for user Mark Smith may communicate to other clients that he is present if for example the PIM client has sent a message within a threshold time or had the PIM client application window in focus within a threshold time. Otherwise PIM client for user Mark Smith may communicate to other clients that he is not present. Third party presence aware services may also be used such as MICROSOFT LINK or CISCO JABBER.

As described herein the unique handling of CPMs provides many benefits over existing alternatives. For example CPM messages can be handled cross platform. Any device that has an email client or messaging service plug in configured for use with CPM messages may be used to communicate in the described manner. In addition even if a device does not support CPM messages that device would still be able to process a CPM message as a traditional email message and thereby a user of that device could still communicate with the sender of the CPM message just not with the threaded view or other special features of a CPM capable PIM client or CPM client as described herein . In addition CPM messages utilize existing email protocols. No new IM system is needed no new central registration is required and there are no issues with independent IM systems causing inconsistent usage within a company or organization.

The use of CPM messages may also unify IM and email. Instead of deciding when to use email and when to use IM a user can have one application that handles both and can decide which to use on the fly by deciding whether to enter any text into the body of a new message or not. A CPM capable PIM client software handles each message automatically based on whether there is content in the body or not or whether a CPM tag is present.

The CPM message handling techniques described herein can be used in place of cost driven SMS MMS messaging on wireless carriers networks. That is similar to Apple iMessage and RIM s BlackBerry Messaging CPM messaging would not only provide free messaging or messaging at only minimal cost based on data transmission but would also work cross platform on any compatible device including PC Mac. In addition because CPM messaging is compatible with virtually any email client or can be so that CPM messages look and operate better than traditional emails adoption is likely to quickly spread e.g. viral adoption. According to one aspect a brand name protocol descriptor or other moniker for example REALLY SIMPLE MESSAGING or RSM may be used and branding such as Sent by RSM may be applied to messages that use the technology described herein.

According to another alternative CPM messages and traditional non CPM email messages may incur different levels of notification on a device. For example SMS is often used because it frequently defaults to a higher or more urgent notification on a device such as a mobile device or smartphone than does email. CPM capable PIM client or mobile device may be programmed such that CPM messages similarly result in a higher or more urgent level of notification than regular email messages or other notifications based on user settings. A user interface in which CPM messages are presented may further provide an extensible unified view inclusive of other IM systems such as MS Communicator AIM etc. and may be color coded or shaded such as is illustrated in .

According to an alternative embodiment with reference to CPM message may be displayed with non CPM messages. CPM capable PIM Client interface includes New Message button new CPM message button and reply button . Similar buttons may be included on CPM capable PIM client as well not shown . CPM capable PIM client displays CPM thread inline with other non CPM messages . illustrates thread as displayed when message is received from Dave Jones . and illustrate thread after CPM capable PIM client sends message receives message and sends message respectively. In the embodiment depicted in when a user replies to a CPM message CPM capable PIM client updates the thread inline instead of keeping the original subject title Re Old message . CPM capable PIM client recognizes the CPM message interaction and updates the inline thread accordingly.

Messages sent from the user associated with CPM capable PIM client may be prefaced with ME or some other indicia indicating that the user sent the CPM message to the named other party rather than receiving the message from the other named party in this case Dave Jones . The user of the CPM capable PIM client would see the most recently received message or reply on the subject line of the CPM capable PIM client and would not need to open the thread to read it. Optionally if the user does select the PIM thread CPM capable PIM client may display the full CPM threaded exchange in a portion of interface e.g. as shown in or in a separate window not shown . CPM messages may optionally be displayed with a special icon to distinguish CPM threads from regular email messages.

According to an aspect when a user selects reply button regarding a reply to a CPM thread e.g. with respect to thread CPM capable PIM client may automatically organize and filter subject line messages between the PIM client user and the original sender organize them in an easy to read formatted thread and insert that thread into the body of an email and send the thread as a normal email to a non CPM message user.

According to another alternative CPM messaging capabilities as described herein may be implemented as a standalone software application that communicates over email protocols but communicates directly with the email server such as Microsoft Exchange or other known email servers. Regular emails with content may be ignored by the standalone application and handled instead by a local email client. The standalone application may identify CPM messages and present them in a threaded view as shown above or similar to other SMS IM presentations.

In some aspects CPM messaging and or CPM messaging clients may integrate with existing techniques for presence awareness. Contacts that are online based on email activity or other indicators or available based on open calendars may be presented with a special indicator or icon and CPM message launch button or input control.

Subject lines of emails may contain URLs. CPM messaging may treat URLs similar to any other CPM message or that the URL may be clickable by a user to access the linked to resource directly. However subject lines cannot include attachments such as photos videos documents and the like. CPM messages however may provide this functionality by allowing users to attach content to CPM messages much the same way digital content can be attached to SMS IM messages but using existing email attachment capabilities of the CPM client. For example end users may attach photos videos documents messages or any other type of digital content to a CPM message just as could be attached to an email such that a displayed CPM message can include an identifier indicating that the CPM message includes attached digital content. This identifier may include a thumbnail view of the attached content or may be a clickable predetermined identifier that provides access to the digital content when clicked. Attached digital content can therefore be attached to CPM messages much the same way that digital content can be attached to typical email messages.

CPM capable PIM client may also include a feature to prepopulate frequently used messages from a drop down menu with selectable messages such as call me when you are available are you joining the meeting Open for Lunch etc. These common CPM messages could be provided by default and or user definable.

As illustrated in the user interface shows messages received at a user device from different parties with each party having its own user identifier image or default user identifier image. For example user identifier image is shown for a message received from Nathan Anderson and default user identifier image is shown for a message received from Bryan Smoltz.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

