---

title: Ad hoc formation of a swarm for information collection and distribution
abstract: Embodiments relate generally to systems and methods for ad hoc formation of a swarm for information collection and distribution. The swarm may be operable to aggregate information from a plurality of mobile devices in a specific area, wherein the information may be related by subject or category. The swarm may be formed in response to a triggering event, wherein the triggering event may be location based. Once the swarm is formed, it may provide access for users to information which may include photos, videos, audio, location information and environmental information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253652&OS=09253652&RS=09253652
owner: SPRINT COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY L.P.
number: 09253652
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130115
---
Mobile communication of information is common practice with today s technology. Information communicated with mobile devices may include photos videos audio recordings and location information. Sometimes an event may occur where a large number of people may be taking photos videos etc. of a similar subject in a similar area. The information collected by the mobile devices may then be communicated via messaging uploading or other means of communication.

In an embodiment a method for triggering ad hoc formation of a swarm for information collection and distribution. The method may comprise monitoring communication traffic from a plurality of mobile devices recognizing an increase in the monitored traffic determining a location associated with the increase in monitored traffic and triggering the formation of a swarm in the location of the increase in monitored traffic wherein a swarm comprises a computer based system of collecting storing and distributing information. The increase in the monitored traffic comprises an increase of at least one of the number of mobile devices in a location the number of calls being made to an emergency number the amount of media being captured or uploaded by the mobile devices wherein media comprises photo video or audio content the amount of MMS messages being sent or received by the mobile devices or the usage of a specific application on the mobile devices 

In an embodiment a method for triggering ad hoc formation of a swarm for information collection and distribution is disclosed. The method may comprise detecting the occurrence of a triggering event in a particular area communicating with a swarm management application based on identifying the triggering event and notifying the swarm management application to form a swarm in the area of the identified event wherein the swarm may provide communication with a plurality of mobile devices. The triggering event comprises at least one of a weather event an emergency event a news event a performance event a sporting event a political event or a celebrity event 

In an embodiment a method for ad hoc formation of a swarm for information collection and distribution is disclosed. The method may comprise creating access to storage for information in the form of a swarm notifying users of the formation of the swarm aggregating information from users storing the aggregated information processing the aggregated information and providing access to the aggregated information.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Embodiments of the disclosure are directed to methods and systems for ad hoc formation of a swarm for information collection and distribution. In some cases a swarm may also be referred to as a cloud or other similar notation. A swarm may be defined as a system and associated methods of collecting and distributing information from and to users. Additionally a swarm may provide temporary storage of the information. In an embodiment a swarm may comprise a computer system associated applications and associated data store. The swarm may be implemented on a single computer system or may be implemented in part by a distributed plurality of computers for example by processors located at a plurality of base transceiver stations and possibly a centralized computer system. A plurality of swarms may be maintained or supported on a single set of computer and or data store resources. In some contexts a swarm may be said to comprise a computer based system of collecting storing and distributing information.

The formation of a swarm may occur based on a triggering event and the swarm may allow for information to be uploaded to or collected by the swarm from users as well as for the stored information to be distributed or accessed by users. A triggering event that may result in the formation of a swarm may be based on an increase in communication traffic of some kind where the increase in communication traffic may be noticed or monitored by a swarm management application. Traffic that may be monitored may include an increase in one or more of the following the number of mobile devices in a location the number of calls being made to an emergency number the amount of media being captured or uploaded by the mobile devices the amount of MMS messages being sent or received by the mobile devices and the usage of a specific application on the mobile devices. The swarm management application operable to monitor the increase in traffic may be executed by a plurality of mobile devices in the area of the increase in traffic or alternatively the swarm management application may be executed by one or more cell towers or base transceiver stations in the area of the increase in traffic. Additionally the swarm management application may be executed by a central network server in communication with one or more cell towers and or a plurality of mobile devices.

Alternatively the triggering event may comprise an event possibly noticed by outside sources that is noticed by devices other than mobile devices or cell towers or optionally noticed by mobiles devices and or cell towers wherein the request for the formation of a swarm in the area of the event may be communicated to a swarm management application. For example an event may comprise one or more of a weather event an emergency event a news event a performance event a sporting event a political event or a celebrity event. The swarm management application operable to initiate formation of a swarm may be executed by a plurality of mobile devices in the area of the event or alternatively the swarm management application may be executed by one or more cell towers or base transceiver stations in the area of the event.

Once a swarm has been formed in an area or location the swarm may allow for access to storage for information which may be uploaded or otherwise sent to the swarm. Users in the area of the swarm may be notified of the presence of the swarm via a message sent to a plurality of mobile devices for example and users may choose to opt in to or opt out of communication with the swarm. Then information may be aggregated from users and access may be provided to users who may be in the area or elsewhere who may be interested in information about the event that triggered the formation of the swarm. In some cases the information that is aggregated by the swarm may be categorized based on the location of the swarm as well as the type of triggering event that initiated the formation of the swarm. Additionally users may have the option to tag or otherwise categorize the information sent to the swarm from their mobile devices. Information aggregated by the swarm may be stored in a database for later access analysis and processing.

The formation of a swarm in an area of high communication traffic or predicted high traffic may allow for a decrease in use of the network or network server in the area of the swarm wherein users may send information to the swarm instead of uploading the information to the internet or sending it via MMS messages to other devices. For example a user may want to send a picture to a friend but instead of sending the actual picture a link to access the information gathered by the swarm may be sent to the friend so that the friend may have access to all the information in the swarm. In some cases the swarm may intercept messages and or uploads being sent by users and suggest accessing the swarm instead. This may reduce the amount of data being sent over a network and may reduce traffic at a particular time for example if the friend does not access the link immediately but waits until a later time. Additionally a collection of information such as photos or videos for example from the area of an event may provide for better analysis by users of the information. For example public service officials who may be analyzing the scene of a crime may use the information from the swarm to access multiple perspectives views or time frames of information.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the system may comprise a plurality of mobile communication devices . A mobile device may comprise a radio transceiver a media capturing device a plurality of communication applications an optional geo location application and an optional swarm management application . The mobile device may be configured to use the radio transceiver to establish a wireless communication link with a base transceiver station BTS and the base transceiver station may provide communications connectivity of the device to a network . The network may comprise any combination of private and public networks. Additionally the base transceiver station may also be known as a cell tower.

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile communication devices and any number of base transceiver stations . The collectivity of base transceiver stations may be said to comprise a radio access network in that these base transceiver stations may provide radio communication links to the mobile communication devices to provide access to the network . The radio access network may be abstracted in different ways and may comprise in addition to the base transceiver stations servers and data stores such as home location registers HLRs or servers that implement the functionality of home location registers visitor location registers VLRs or servers that implement the functionality of visitor location registers base station controllers BSCs mobile switching centers MSCs and other network nodes that are specifically associated with providing wireless access and connectivity to the mobile communication devices .

The radio transceiver may be in communication with the base transceiver station using any of a variety of wireless communication protocols including a code division multiple access CDMA wireless communication protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless communication protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless communication protocol a world wide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol or another wireless communication protocol. The device may be any of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a wireless enabled computer a tablet or other mobile communication device. In an embodiment the mobile communication device may have other components not shown such as a near field communication NFC radio transceiver a wireless local area network WLAN radio transceiver or other components.

The communication applications may comprise a voice communication application a data communication application a web browser application an email application a short message system SMS or texting application a multimedia message system MMS application and other communication applications. The communication applications may be standard communication applications that are delivered by an original equipment manufacturer OEM who assembles the mobile communication device . The communication applications may be stored as firmware or software in a trusted memory area of the mobile communication device . The communication applications may expose application programming interfaces APIs accessible to other applications to provide wireless communication functionality to the other applications.

The geo location application may be operable to provide a location of the mobile device wherein a user may access this location information. In an embodiment the network and or network server may also access the location information provided by the geo location application . In an embodiment the geo location application may comprise a global positioning system GPS receiver. Alternatively the geo location application may self locate using trilateration based on signals received from neighboring base transceiver stations or simply based on a location of a neighboring base transceiver station .

In an embodiment the mobile device may be in communication with a swarm operable to allow for information collection and distribution wherein the swarm may comprise a temporary storage for information which may be aggregated from the plurality of mobile devices. In an embodiment the swarm management application on the mobile device may facilitate communication with the swarm however in other embodiments the mobile device may be in communication with the swarm without the presence of a swarm management application . Additionally the swarm management application may be operable to facilitate or initiate formation of a swarm in response to a trigger or triggering event wherein the swarm management application may be executed by the mobile device s and or the base transceiver station . In an embodiment the mobile device may communicate with the swarm via the base transceiver station wherein the base transceiver station may be coupled to the swarm wirelessly or via a connection between the swarm and the network .

In an embodiment the swarm may form in response to a triggering event. In an embodiment the triggering event may comprise recognizing an increase in communication traffic from a plurality of mobile devices wherein the increase in traffic may be localized to an area. In an embodiment the traffic may comprise an increase in the number of mobile devices in a particular location or area. The location of the mobile devices may in an embodiment be monitored using the geo location application on the plurality of mobile device . In another embodiment the number of mobile devices in a particular location may be determined by the connection of the mobile devices with the one or more base transceiver stations wherein the one or more base transceiver stations may provide coverage for a specific area or location.

In another embodiment the communication traffic may comprise an increase in the number of calls being made to an emergency number such as 911 for example from the mobile devices . The traffic may also comprise the amount of media being captured and or uploaded by the mobile devices wherein the media may comprise photo video and or audio content. In an embodiment the photos videos and audio content may be captured by a media capturing device on the mobile communication device wherein the media capturing device may comprise a camera a video camera an audio recorder or other similar device. The amount of media being captured by a device may be monitored by an application on the mobile device . Additionally the amount of media being uploaded by a mobile device may be monitored by an application on the mobile device and or by the network or network server in communication with the mobile device . In another embodiment the traffic may comprise the amount of messages such as MMS messages being sent from the plurality of mobile devices wherein the messages may be sent using a communication application on the mobile device . In yet another embodiment the traffic may comprise the usage of a specific application on the mobile devices wherein the application may be classified as a swarm management application associated with the swarm . In other embodiments the application may be a media sharing application or other similar application on the mobile devices .

In an embodiment the triggering event operable to trigger the formation of a swarm may comprise an event that occurs in a particular area or location wherein the event may be one or more of the following a weather event an emergency event a news event a performance event a sporting event a political event or a celebrity event for example. In an embodiment an event as described above may be identified or noticed the location or area of the event may be noted and then a swarm may be formed in the area or location of the event. In an embodiment detecting the occurrence of the triggering event may be performed by one or more of a weather service a news service an emergency communication service first responders or one or more users of the mobile devices.

In an embodiment a swarm management application may control the formation of the swarm wherein the swarm management application may be executed on the plurality of mobile devices . In another embodiment the swarm management application may be executed at the one or more base transceiver stations or cell towers . In an embodiment an external computer or other similar device may communicate with the network server and therefore the network wherein the computer may prompt execution of the swarm management application by the mobile devices and or the base transceiver station in response to the identification of a triggering event. In other embodiments the triggering event may comprise a request by users of the mobile devices wherein a group of users may request the formation of a swarm in their area. This may also be known as a flash mob approach. Additionally the triggering event may in some embodiments comprise a request from an authority such as first responders national weather service etc.

Once a triggering event has occurred and a swarm is formed users may be notified of the formation of the swarm wherein for example a message may be sent to the plurality of mobile devices notifying a user of the mobile device that they may access the swarm . Users may opt in to or opt out of communication with the swarm and information may be communicated between the mobile devices and the swarm . In an embodiment information communicated from the mobile devices may comprise photo video audio location information time information and or environmental data. For example a mobile device may be operable to capture media such as photos videos or audios. Additionally location information may be provided by the geo location application on the mobile device and or the location of the base transceiver station in communication with the mobile device . Location information may also include orientation height or position of a user when a photo or video was taken for example. Also time information may be associated with the information gathered from the phone such as the time that a photo was taken and or uploaded for example. Mobile devices may also comprise additional features that may allow environmental information or data to be gathered such as accelerometers barometers and other similar devices.

Once information has been communicated to the swarm the information may be made accessible to the mobile devices in communication with the swarm . Additionally the information may be further communicated to a network server wherein the information may be made accessible to other mobile devices and computers . In an embodiment users may subscribe to topics of interest and may be notified when a swarm is formed that is associated with one of their interests. For example a user may subscribe to celebrity events and may be notified when a swarm forms that is categorized or otherwise classified as a celebrity event. The user may then access the information collected by the swarm wherein the user may access the information via a computer or mobile device or other device with internet connectivity. In an embodiment a user in communication with the swarm that is in the area of the swarm may interact differently than a user who is not in the area of the swarm but is accessing information from the swarm.

In an embodiment the information may be processed by a processing application on the network server wherein processing the information may comprise categorizing sorting filtering or tagging the information. For example the information may be sorted automatically based on how and or where the trigger event occurs. Additionally information may be tagged or categorized by users before after or during communication of the information to and from the swarm. Information may also be sorted after the event by users of the information. Processing the information may also comprise using the information to create new information such as compiled or otherwise edited photos videos or audio reports of activity and or traffic and larger scope or three dimensional images. Additionally photo analytics may be performed wherein photos may be identified by their similarity to other photos for example.

In an embodiment the information may be analyzed by users wherein analysis may vary by the type of information and the subject of the information. For example information may be analyzed by public service officials security officials sporting officials news outlets reporters or other interested parties. The users that analyze the information may vary based on the category location and the subject of the information. Additionally users may be charged for access to the information of the swarm. For example a news outlet may pay the operator of the swarm to have exclusive access to the information aggregated by the swarm.

The swarm may only be considered to exist until it produces content or information that is once information is aggregated and or processed. In an embodiment information aggregated by the swarm may be routed to a central location such as a database for example . From there information may be accessed stored altered or removed at an administrator s discretion and may also be accessed by mobile devices and computers . In some embodiments the aggregated information may be made geographically redundant wherein the information may be reflected to a server in a location remote from the location of the swarm. For example information aggregated from New York City may also be stored by servers or databases in Los Angeles. This may be useful especially for emergency or disaster events where servers and databases proximate to the event may be in danger of being damaged.

Another embodiment of the disclosure may comprise a method of identifying an emergency event a potential news story or entertainment story or any other event of interest to the public wherein further investigation may be desired and or required. Additionally embodiments of the disclosure may comprise a tool for gathering images and other information related to the above mentioned events and or stories. This tool may in some cases be known as a swarm or may manage data that collectively may be considered to comprise a swarm or store information related to the swarm and may provide communication with mobile devices in the area of the event or story and may provide temporary ad hoc storage for images and other information gathered from the mobile devices .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

