---

title: Integrated profile creation for a social network environment
abstract: In an example, a system and method is disclosed for providing a user matching system. To ease creation of a profile, a node may be enabled to connect to a third-party social media site where the node already has an established profile. The established profile is imported, wherein common fields are directly mapped, inferred fields may be deterministically inferred, and other fields such as “likes” may be assigned relative weights based on recentness, subjective user rankings, or correlation to other “likes.” The node may also be enabled to permanently log in to the matching system via credentials for the third-party social media site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094396&OS=09094396&RS=09094396
owner: MATCH.COM, L.L.C.
number: 09094396
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131122
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to a system and a method for initiating social interactions between users in a network environment.

Communications network architectures have experienced significant notoriety because they can offer the benefits of automation convenience and data management for their respective online communities. Certain network protocols may be used in order to allow an end user to be matched to other end users or to scenarios in which they stand to benefit e.g. job searches person finding services real estate searches online dating etc. . Such services may be referred to collectively as matching services. 

In the case of an online dating service for example an end user will typically be prompted to specify a variety of preferences to be used in matching the end user with other end users in a particular online dating community. The information each end user provides about him or herself may be viewed by other end users in the online community in determining whether to interact with that end user. In certain cases the actual dating platform can participate in matching activities. This interventionist involvement and often spur or provoke new relationships being formed.

In an example a system and method is disclosed for providing a node matching system such as an internet dating website. To ease creation of a profile a node may be enabled to connect to a third party social media site where the node already has an established profile. The established profile is imported wherein common fields are directly mapped inferred fields may be deterministically inferred and other fields such as likes may be assigned relative weights based on recentness subjective user rankings or correlation to other likes. The node may also be enabled to permanently in a network sense log in to the matching system via credentials for the third party social media site.

The named inventors herein have observed that initializing an account with an online matching service such as a dating service may require a significant investment of time and energy. By nature certain matching services require a lot of data to work effectively and as a general proposition the more personal data users enter the better able the system is to match compatible users to one another. An additional frustration first time users may face is that they may have already invested significant time and energy building profiles on third party services such as social networking services. Thus users may feel like they are being forced to duplicate effort. Accordingly the present specification discloses a system and method wherein a user may import his personal data from a third party service into an online matching service thus reducing barriers to initial signup and possibly aiding in wider adoption of an online matching service.

End users may include a variety of types of end users such as clients customers prospective customers or entities wishing to participate in an online dating scenario and or to view information associated with other participants in the system. End users may also seek to access or to initiate communications with other end users that may be delivered via communications network . End users may review data such as user profiles for example associated with other users in order to make matching decisions or selections. Data as used herein in this document refers to any type of numeric voice video or script data or any other suitable information in any appropriate format that may be communicated from one point to another.

End users may access the aforementioned data via endpoints which may be inclusive of devices used to initiate a communication. Note that the broad term node encompasses any type of node or user device or any type of endpoint discussed herein. Additionally the terms node and endpoint are synonymous and can further include any type of profile to be used in the system discussed herein. Hence these terms can include but are not limited to elements such as a computer a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop or electronic notebook a cellular telephone an IP telephone an iPhone an iPad a Microsoft Surface an Android phone a Google Nexus or any other device component element or object capable of initiating voice audio or data exchanges within communication system . The endpoints may be inclusive of a suitable interface to the end user such as a microphone a display or a keyboard or other terminal equipment. Endpoints may also include any device that seeks to initiate a communication on behalf of another entity or element such as a program a database or any other component device element or object capable of initiating a voice or a data exchange within communication system . In addition each of the endpoints may be a unique element designed specifically for communications involving system . Such an element may be fabricated or produced specifically for matching applications involving end user and endpoint .

A user may employ any device capable of operating as an endpoint to connect to communications network via wire wireless cellular satellite link or other suitable interfaces. Web server which as previously noted includes memory and at least one processor hosts website and has access to transmit and receive user or presence data e.g. user profile data user and or user endpoint data user contact data from database . Presence data may be collected aggregated and utilized as required to facilitate communications between endpoints over communications network or other outside communication systems. Presence data may also include information and or instructions enabling the creation duration and termination of communication sessions between diverse endpoints that utilize different communication and or networking protocols.

Communications network is a communicative platform operable to exchange data or information emanating from endpoints . Communications network represents an Internet architecture in a particular embodiment of the present disclosure which provides end users with the ability to electronically execute or to initiate actions associated with finding a potential match candidate. Alternatively communications network could be a plain old telephone system POTS which end user could use to perform the same operations or functions. Such transactions may be assisted by management associated with website or manually keyed into a telephone or other suitable electronic equipment. In other embodiments communications network could be any packet data network PDN offering a communications interface or exchange between any two nodes in system . Communications network may alternatively be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN wireless local area network WLAN virtual private network VPN intranet or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates communications in a network or telephonic environment.

In one embodiment web server comprises a server that is operable to receive and to communicate information to one or more end users . In a generic sense web server can implement a computer implemented matching system that provides a framework for suitable matching activities. Alternatively web server may be any switch router gateway cache server blade software processor proprietary component object module or element or any combination of these operable to facilitate communications involving end user . Web server may be integrated with database and or website where any one or more of these elements may share or otherwise coordinate the activities discussed herein.

In one particular embodiment web server via interaction with database and or in conjunction with website is engaged in facilitating interaction s between parties interested in seeking a romantic partner i.e. online dating . For example website can be online dating service provider www.Match.com www.Chemistry.com or any other suitable provider. In certain example scenarios a given end user may pay a fee for a subscription based service. Additionally certain end user fee structures may apply to different tiers of service some of which may entitle an end user to enhanced features on website e.g. the ability to communicate more frequently with other users additional matches being provided potentially more frequently to an end user who paid the higher fee structure the ability to store data the ability to share data the ability to upload additional information the ability to target specific searches based on particular criteria the ability to receive preferential positioning in the context of being matched to other users the ability to perform video calls e.g. Skype etc. with other users the ability to perform audio calls with other users etc. .

In certain embodiments website is a computer implemented matching system which may be any website or architecture provided for facilitating a connection involving two or more people and which may make use of a given profile photograph resume article description etc. This could include services associated with job placements escort services auction services social media real estate listings recruiting services e.g. in athletics academia employment scenarios instances involving the sales of goods and services etc.

Considerable flexibility is provided by the structure of web server and website in the context of system . Thus it can be easily appreciated that such functions could be provided external to web server or website . In such cases such a functionality could be readily embodied in a separate component server processor device or module. Note that these online dating features and capabilities may be provided in just one of these elements in both or distributed across both of them. Hence in certain embodiments the online dating operations may be consolidated in a single website where no redirection is needed nor performed for the user.

In operation of an example embodiment consider a case where a given end user is interested in participating in an online dating scenario. End user can access website via the communications network which in the example presented comprises the Internet using endpoint register and create a profile on the site. Moreover end user can access website through any suitable banner pop up partnership e mail solicitations direct mailings etc. It can be appreciated that online commerce can be generated by a plethora of marketing tools and any such tools can readily cooperate with the operations of the present disclosure.

At this point matching of any form can commence amongst the members of the online community. For example in the context of a romantic endeavor a person may begin the dating process or engage in communications that would spawn such dating. Other applications could include job applicants who are being sought by employers. Any of the individuals who reside in the online community can begin using any of the tools or capabilities of the platform.

In one embodiment the system may include a feature referred to herein as a Blind Date Request BDR feature. The BDR feature may be accessed in any number of known manners including clicking on a link icon or other element provided in a GUI displayed on a web page. Alternatively the BDR feature may be implemented as a standalone feature. In certain cases the BDR feature can be provided as an application app that is readily downloaded and or purchased from an app provider e.g. iTunes Match.com etc. . Once a user accesses the BDR feature he or she may be required to create a special BDR account or to sign in using an existing account as illustrated in . To create a new BDR account as illustrated in various information is solicited from the user including for example the user s first name birth date gender and the gender the user is seeking to date. The user is also prompted to click on a camera icon to take a photo of himself or herself or to select a photo from photos that have already been uploaded to system or are stored on the endpoint equipment employed by the user.

Once a photo of the user has been taken selected the user may edit the photo as illustrated in . After all of the user s information including the photo has been submitted as illustrated in the user is prompted to begin developing a date request. The first step in the date request process is to select a calendar date on which the user would like to conduct the date. This is illustrated in in which several calendar dates are presented to the user. The user selects a calendar date by clicking the box corresponding to the desired calendar date and then clicks a next button . It will be assumed for the sake of example that the user selects Monday May 8 . Next the user is prompted to select a location for the date. In one embodiment as illustrated in the user is presented with a map with a variety of locations indicated by markers such as markers . The locations indicated on the map may preferably be conveniently located proximate the user s current location or some other location that has been designated by the user. Alternatively the user may search for a particular location e.g. by entering a search query in a field or may select a category via a drop down menu to filter displayed locations by type or some other criteria . Hovering the mouse cursor or other pointer over one of the markers results in display of additional information regarding the location designated by the marker as illustrated in . In the example illustrated in The Royal Tea Room is designated by the marker . A web address and a physical address for The Royal Tea Room are displayed for the user s convenience. Selecting Pick This Place results in the displayed location being selected as the location for the date.

Once the user has selected a calendar date and location for his or her date as illustrated in a search is conducted on a pool of date requests submitted by other users of the BDR feature to identify other users who have submitted identical or substantially similar in terms of calendar date and location date requests using the BDR feature. A screen such as that shown in may be presented to the user while the system is searching for matches. Once the search has completed a screen such as that shown in may be presented to the user to notify the user of the number of potential matches found for the user s date request. Note that in certain embodiments but not all the system can implement a filter that honors the blind date scenario such that the users that are matched using the BDR feature have not previously interacted online through e mail communications or on the website e.g. match.com . 

In the illustrated example the user is notified that two matches have been identified at or near the location and on date specified in the user s date request. illustrates a display of a first one of the identified matches. As shown in the information provided to the user for the match is the same information solicited from the user as described with reference to and illustrated in including the match s first name age gender and sexual orientation however the match s picture has been partially obfuscated in any appropriate manner e.g. by puzzlization to disguise the actual appearance of the user. Other techniques can involve distorting the image through pixel manipulations removing certain blocks of image data contorting the image e.g. much like that of a funhouse mirror etc. In this manner the user may ascertain a general idea of the match s features eye color hair color etc. but the puzzlization will advantageously impede the ability of the user to base his or her selection solely on the physical appearance of the match. Although not shown the user may scroll to pages displaying the other matches using one of any number of known navigation techniques.

Assuming the user selects the match shown in Melissa a confirmation screen is displayed as shown in . Selecting Ask Her Out on the confirmation screen results in a date invitation being sent to Melissa. The date invitation will provide Melissa with the same information about the user that was provided to the user about her including the user s name age gender sexual orientation and a puzzlized version of the picture the user submitted as illustrated in . Melissa can use this information to determine whether to accept or decline the received date invitation. The user may access a Your Plans page to determine the status of the date invitation. For example as illustrated in until Melissa has accepted or declined the date invitation the user s plans will reflect that the user is waiting for Melissa s response. Assuming Melissa accepts the date invitation the user s Your Plans page will be updated to reflect that the date has been confirmed including the date and location of the date as shown in . Clicking on the entry shown in may result in display of more detailed date information as illustrated in . It will be recognized that some other additional form of notification such as an email or text message may be provided to the user to advise the user of his her date s response to the invitation.

Referring to a message icon at the bottom of the page can be used to message or chat with the match and also reflects a number of messages received from the match. Clicking on the message icon opens a chat window as shown in which enables the user and the match e.g. Tom and Melissa to refine their date plans for example or to familiarize themselves with one another before the date. In one embodiment the message icon is activated only between two users who have mutually agreed to a date via the BDR feature in the manner described herein.

In step a pool of potential matches comprised of unfulfilled date requests submitted by other users via the BDR feature in the manner described above is searched to identify other users who have entered similar and or identical date requests. It will be recognized that the date request submitted by the current user searcher will be entered into the pool as well for others who subsequently use the BDR feature to request a date. It will be further recognized that the BDR feature may be customized only to provide to the user matches that are identical to the date request submitted by the user or may also provide matches that are within a certain tolerance of the calendar date location indicated in the user s date request. For example a user who has selected a particular coffee house as the location for the date may be willing to entertain the idea of conducting the date at a different coffee house located near the one originally selected.

If in step it is determined that the pool is not large enough execution proceeds to step in which the user s date request is placed in the date request pool to await further processing as described below with reference to . However if in step it is determined that the date request pool is large enough to search for matches for the user execution proceeds to step . In step a search of the date request pool is executed to identify matches for the user. In step the matches identified in step are evaluated for quality. Quality matches are matches comprise date request that have been submitted by users that would likely be acceptable to the current user in terms of gender age interests etc. It will be recognized that these feature may be determined using the respective user profiles of the users in system . In step a determination is made whether there are a sufficient number of quality matches for the user to justify notifying the user of the matches. If not execution proceeds to step in which a determination is made whether the total number of potential matches for the user is small regardless of quality. For example if a user lives in a small town there may by definition only be a small number of users date requests from which to choose. In this manner step functions as a sort of reality check in other words if the search results are about as good as can be expected based on some external criteria it does not make sense to continue to wait for better results. If a negative determination is made in step execution proceeds to step described above otherwise execution proceeds to step . Similarly if a positive determination is made in step execution proceeds to step . In step the user is notified of the matches developed in step . In one embodiment the user is notified of only a certain number of matches e.g. four even if more matches have been identified. The matches selected for presentation to the user may be selected based on the quality of match with respect to the user. Additionally and or alternatively it will be recognized that date requests selected from the pool may be recommended to more than one user at the same time therefore the matches selected for presentation to a user may comprise those matches that have not already been recommended to multiple users thereby to decrease the possibility of a single user receiving multiple invitations in connection with a single date request. In certain cases algorithms may be used in order to ensure that the pool is approximately loadbalanced such that users receive a roughly equal share of possible dating opportunities. Furthermore user profiles can be evaluated in order to determine for example based on a lack of matching activities or a lack of communication or solicitations involving other users at the website which users should receive priority for the BDR opportunities. This could involve heightened placement opportunities for a stagnating user increased presentment opportunities e.g. where the user could be featured more for other users to consider etc.

Referring now to in step a determination is made whether the date request pool is large enough in terms of raw numbers of date requests in the pool to justify attempting to fulfill a date request therefrom. In step a date request is selected from the pool. In one embodiment a date request submitted by a high priority user is selected. A high priority user may be one who is highly rated by other users based on various criteria alternatively a high priority user may be one who has had one or more subjectively negative dating experiences with others on the site and who is due a positive dating experience. In other cases a high priority user may be reflective of a user profile that is somewhat stagnant on the website e.g. a lack of communications or solicitations as discussed above . Hence any suitable historical data may be used in order to designate a particular one of the users in a pool as having some type of priority. The priority would allow for the stagnating user to receive preferential treatment e.g. listed first in a queue for another user presented first or at the top of a queue for a requester in a BDR scenario prominently displayed on the website be the first profile that is pulled into a particular matching opportunity etc. . Furthermore it should be recognized that selection of a date request from the date request pool may be performed in any number of different manners depending on the goal of the system the administrator the company collecting revenues for providing matching services etc.

In step a number of matches are identified for the date request based on date and location. It will be recognized that the number of matches provided to a user may be limited to a particular maximum number if less than the predetermined maximum number of matches are identified then all of the matches will be presented to the user as described below. In step the date request submitted by the identified user is removed from the date request pool. In step the identified matches are recommended to the identified user. Additionally identified matches that have been recommended to a predetermined number of users e.g. five are temporarily removed from the pool to reduce the risk of conflicting matches. Execution then returns to step .

Importantly the system and methods described in are most successful when a critical mass of users participate in the service. Thus it is advantageous to provide means for reducing friction associated with creating a new user account to help encourage such a critical mass of users including enabling users to create an initial profile via an existing third party user account. discloses an embodiment of a server interacting with a third party service according to one or more example embodiments of the present specification. For a user such as user Tom to take full advantage of the system and methods described in he must enter a great deal of data into his profile so that server can make appropriate matches as well as make useful recommendations such as for activities and locations. According to certain prior art methods it may be necessary for Tom to manually enter profile information such as name age and sexual orientation to create a basic profile. Tom may also enter additional information to help strengthen his profile and the probability of a successful match including for example his city location relationship status physical information e.g. height weight hair and eye color interests e.g. hobbies favorites likes lifestyle information e.g. exercise habits employment smoking drinking habits and background values e.g. ethnicity faith education employment . Tom s profile may also include an About My Date profile in which the end user specifies preferences about the type of person he would like to meet or date such as appearance interests faith education relationship goals pet preferences hobbies and location by way of non limiting example.

In some cases entering this large volume of data can be cumbersome and may serve as a deterrent for an otherwise willing user to sign up for a matching service. Furthermore Tom may find it frustrating that he has already entered some or all of his profile data into some other social networking site such as Facebook or LinkedIn by way of non limiting example. For example Tom may have an existing user profile with third party service . Third party service may provide an application programming interface API which may be configured to enable other services to access data from third party service including for example reading or updating user profile . Tom may also have accounts with third party service and third party service . Between the three profiles Tom may have entered extensive profile information that may be used to fill in details for Tom s user profile . The entry of these data may represent a substantial investment of time and effort for Tom. Tom may therefore wish to benefit from that investment when he creates a user profile on website . Furthermore Tom may want to synchronize his investment in third party services and by synchronizing their respective profiles to the extent possible. Thus it is desirable for server to be enabled to access each third party service via its respective API and to both harvest profile data from third party services and also to optionally write to the profiles of third party services .

Advantageously importing profiles can also ease profile creation in the case of a matching service operating web server . For example matching services may require new user profiles to be reviewed for suitability and authenticity. This avoids the problem for example of spam bots or malicious software flooding sites with fake user accounts. Some level of assurance is provided by verification techniques such as CAPTCHAs but in a matching service a higher degree of confidence may be necessary. It may thus be desirable to provide a means of automatically verifying that a user is indeed authentic.

A user who creates a profile based on a third party service may be automatically verified in some cases. For example if Tom imports a Facebook profile and web server can verify via API that Tom has 350 friends and that those friends interact with Tom online via posts sharing comments or other similar means it may be determined with a high degree of confidence that Tom is a legitimate user. In this case however having too many friends may actually be a mark against Tom s authenticity as one method of spam profiles is to send friend or connection requests to huge numbers of users in hopes that a certain small percentage will accept. Thus if Tom as 1 000 or more friends and particularly if Tom has only minimal interaction with those friends Tom s profile may be flagged for human review to verify that it is not a spam profile.

Other factors may also be used to verify that a user is legitimate to a high degree of confidence. For example if a profile is imported from a professional network Tom s professional credentials may be matched to connections. If Tom s profile indicates for example that he attended Johns Hopkins medical school and is a surgical resident at Massachusetts General those may be verified with a high degree of confidence if Tom has many connections related to those institutions. Further confidence may be gained if Tom has received endorsements or other similar recommendations from other professionals.

In general terms Tom s profile may be assigned a confidence score based on data gleaned from third party profiles . Factors may be weighted and then summed averaged or otherwise joined to assign an overall confidence score to Tom s profile. If Tom s score is greater than a threshold it is automatically verified. If it is less than the threshold it is flagged for human review. Further if Tom s profile falls below a second threshold it may simply be discarded.

An example of an inferred field is also shown. In this example third party profile includes a sex field and an interested in field. User profile includes a sex field but rather than an interested in field user profile includes an orientation field. The orientation field does not map directly to the interested in field but orientation can be inferred deterministically from the two fields sex and interested in. For example Tom Jones is a male interested in women thus it can be inferred deterministically that Tom Jones sexual orientation is straight. If on the other hand Tom Jones was interested in men his orientation could be deterministically inferred to be gay and if he was interested in both men and women his orientation could be deterministically inferred to be bisexual. Note however that while three deterministic orientations are disclosed here by way of example the example is not intended to be limiting. Depending on social conventions additional categories may be defined. For example a person may have a personal gender identification that is not traditionally associated with his or her physical sex or a person may be transgendered and or interested in a transgender partner. Thus for example a transgender female interested in a non transgender male or vice versa may not be considered straight in the traditional sense and thus it is contemplated that additional categories may be defined and that some categories may be deterministically inferable while others may not.

Furthermore in some cases third party profile may not include an explicit sex field or the user may have left in blank. In that case sex may be inferred based on interaction with other users. For example if third party profile includes a number of posts referring to my wife or my girlfriend the user s status may be inferred to be male and relationship status may be inferred to be married or in a relationship. Similarly my ex wife may infer male and divorced. Comments from other users may also be used for example comments referring to your wife or your girlfriend or comments about the user using he or him as pronouns. Furthermore a cross reference of likes and interests may provide a degree of confidence about gender. Gender is disclosed here as a non limiting example but many other fields could be inferred such as professions academic credentials religion and politics by way of non limiting example.

Third party profile may also include certain fields that either include open ended information or data that do not otherwise map precisely to a field of user profile . For example certain social network services may provide open ended selection of likes favorites or other similar designations with a theoretically infinite number of possible likes. In some cases those designations may evolve gradually over time. For example while browsing a social network site user Tom may see a link to Top Gun a movie he has seen and enjoyed but has not watched or thought about for a long time. Because a relatively easy mechanism may be provided for Tom to like Top Gun such as simply clicking on a like button Tom may accumulate a large number of likes over time. Not all of these likes will be of equal value to Tom. Some may be casual likes and some may be serious interests.

Some social media sites provide additional options for ranking or assigning grades to likes. In those cases more important likes may be designated by higher ranks or grades. In other cases the most recent likes may be deemed the most valuable likes. In another example correlation may be used to rank likes. For example if Tom likes Harrison Ford and also likes the three original Star Wars movies the four Indiana Jones movies Clear and Present Danger and Air Force One it may be inferred that Tom s like for Harrison Ford may be relatively important whereas if Tom likes Tom Cruise but the only movie he likes starring Tom Cruise is Top Gun Tom s like for Tom Cruise may be ranked as relatively less important. Actors and films are disclosed herein by way of example but it should be noted that cross correlation of likes for purposes of weighting or relevance can be extended to many other areas including by way of non limiting example music musicians artists locations businesses cities restaurants cuisine clothing electronics and brands.

In an example where a user is permitted or required to submit an essay as part of his user profile some users may find initial drafting of the essay to be intimidating or difficult. Thus in an example a combination of common fields inferred fields and additional fields may be used to create an automatically generated essay . It should be noted that in some embodiments automatically generated essay will be considered only a draft or a guideline to help users get started on drafting a more personalized essay though in other embodiments it may be used as a final essay.

In some embodiments appropriate adjectives may be inserted based on profile information. For example San Jose Calif. may be identified as bustling based on its proximity to Silicon Valley and other important business activities. In this example a focus is made on identifying positive sounding adjectives that are reasonably applicable to the target for example describing Portland Oreg. as sunny may seem disingenuous . To that end a global or local attributes database may be maintained with attributes commonly associated with known entities. It is expressly understood that attributes database may be operated by web server or by a third party that may make the database accessible via an application programming interface. In an example attributes database may have an entry for San Jose Calif. with bustling being one possible entry. Attributes database may also include other useful information for identifying relatively important likes for example an entry identifying Harrison Ford as an actor and correlating him to a plurality of movies he has starred or appeared prominently in. Attributes database may also identify certain addresses as apartments homes town homes or condominiums certain eateries as cafes or restaurants and so forth. Attributes database may also identify Royal Tea Club as a society primarily of mature women and thus relatively more likely to be ironic accidental or of relatively low importance. To improve accuracy over time heuristic algorithms may be employed. For example if two distinct populations group around Royal Tea Club it may be determined that one is an actual club for mature women who enjoy high tea while the other is the name of an underground German grunge band. In that case automatically generated essay may be modified as follows 

In cases where a field provides a value that does not already include an entry in attributes database a new entry may be created. In an example an automatic internet search is performed searching for attributes associated with the value. For example if Tom is the first user to list Waxahachie Tex. as his location server may perform an automated internet search for Waxahachie focusing specifically on attributes such as its distance to major cities and positive adjectives.

In an example automatically generated essay may be based on forms templates style sheets or other content generation schemes. An example form may include where indicate an optional field to be included if specified or appropriate 

In some cases and particularly in the case of a dating service safety concerns may arise from detailed profile disclosures. For example if server displays all information concerning user collected from user profile a second user may be able to use the information to locate user on third party service . If user profile includes a photograph another user may also use web search tools to match that photograph to user .

To obviate safety concerns certain data may be obfuscated abstracted obscured or otherwise masked. By way of non limiting example a profile picture may be puzzlized as described herein or tilted slightly for example by one degree so that the content is not noticeably disturbed to a human user but web search algorithms searching for an exact match may be frustrated. Metadata may also be removed from the photograph including for example location time and tagged individuals. Some third party services may also watermark images. Thus it may be desirable to remove watermarks. In some cases processing a photograph in this way may be time consuming in which case it may be beneficial to process the photograph asynchronously with interactive portions of user profile creation so that it does not interfere with the user experience or create a potential barrier to profile creation.

To preserve anonymity in free form text fields company names locations and names of people may be removed. These may be identified for example based on a self organizing dictionary. Some types of text may also be displayed at a higher level of abstraction. For example a specific address may be converted simply to Dallas Tex. or North Texas or just Texas. My cat fluffy may be converted simply to cat. Dislikes may also be abstracted. Statements may be rephrased using a thesaurus to identify synonyms or anti antonyms double negatives . For example I hate cocker spaniels may be displayed as I dislike some dogs. First middle and last names may be replaced by a user selected handle. Other typed fields may either not be displayed or moved to a higher level of abstraction. For example if user s age is 37 it may be displayed as 35 40. In general terms this process is referred to in this specification as obfuscating profile data or profile data obfuscation. 

Advantageously user may not need to create a new login with new credentials for server . Rather he may be enabled to permanently use credentials for a third party service thus reducing the number of usernames and passwords user is required to keep track of.

In a single factor authentication scheme the user is now completely authenticated. However a two factor scheme requires additional steps. In this case once the user has passed a first authentication factor a second factor may be required. For example a text message with a one time code may be sent to a cell phone the user holds or a one time RSA secure certificate may be sent to the user s mobile device. It should be noted that many other types of second factor authentication may be used including biometric data use of a secure token use of a permanent certificate user of an RFID device or similar. In the case where the second factor is provided as a one time code texted to user a dialog box is provided asking the user to enter the one time code sent to his cell phone. In block server receives the one time code or other second authorization factor from user . In block the second token is forwarded to third party service . In block if the second factor is correctly received then second factor authentication approval is received and in block the user is done authenticating. Note that in some two factor authentication schemes the second factor is required only on the first time a user logs in via a new device or computer. Once that login is complete the user may be given an option to remember that device so that single factor authentication can be used from that device in the future.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular embodiments it should be understood that various other changes substitutions and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to a dating protocol any service that deals with or that leverages profiles photos resumes user information more generally etc. could readily benefit from the present disclosure.

Moreover although the present disclosure has been described with reference to a number of elements included within system these elements may be rearranged or positioned in any appropriate manner to accommodate any suitable networking configurations. In addition any of the elements of may be provided as separate external components to system or to each other where appropriate.

Furthermore where there are procedures methods or processes described it is important to note that the ordering of steps is disclosed by way of example only and that any step may occur before after or contemporaneously with any other step except where it is expressly stated that one step must precede another or where circumstances dictate such an arrangement. Where a particular sequence or order is required it is not intended to dictate that one step must directly or immediately follow another that one must be a direct proximate cause of the other or that other intervening steps cannot occur. Many steps may also be taken asynchronously from other steps or in parallel therewith. The example procedures methods and processes may also be performed by more than one person entity device computer or enterprise without departing from the spirit and scope of this specification.

It should also be noted that any of the question portions of the platform can leverage any type of format. Thus in any aspect of the online dating process described herein such as establishing a personality profile for example any suitable question format can be employed. Example formats include a Yes No format a multiple choice question format a short answer format a true false format etc. Other formats can readily be used in order to achieve the desired responses and solicit the necessary data.

Note that in certain example implementations the matching and BDR functions outlined herein such as those carried out by web server and or website and or provided as an application for an endpoint being operated by an end user e.g. a mobile application for an iPhone may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more non transitory tangible media e.g. embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances a memory as shown in can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification.

A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example the processor as shown in could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

These devices illustrated herein may maintain information in any suitable memory random access memory RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM ASIC etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. Each of the network elements can also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment.

Note that with the example provided above as well as numerous other examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of more than one network element. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that system and its teachings are readily scalable and can accommodate a large number of components as well as more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of system as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures.

It is also important to note that the steps in the preceding flow diagrams illustrate only some of the possible signaling scenarios and patterns that may be executed by or within system . Some of these steps may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition a number of these operations have been described as being executed concurrently with or in parallel to one or more additional operations. However the timing of these operations may be altered considerably. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure. Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

