---

title: Systems and methods for checking a user into a location using a packet sequence including location information
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed which may allow a user having a mobile device to check in to a location using a packet sequence that includes information for identifying the location transmitted by one or more Bluetooth® Low Energy (BLE) beacons at or near the location. The user may be able to store packet sequences for various locations that may allow the user to automatically check into these locations using the store packet sequences.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09356819&OS=09356819&RS=09356819
owner: EBAY INC.
number: 09356819
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130927
---
Embodiments disclosed herein are related to systems and methods for checking a user into a location using a specific sequence of packets that may include information identifying the location.

Due to the increase in use of mobile devices and the improved networking and online capabilities of these mobile devices merchants having physical brick and mortar storefronts may also have mechanisms for delivering advertisements and other information to the mobile devices while a user of the mobile device is in the merchant store. Some merchants may take advantage of platforms and services that allow a user to check in to the merchant or other location that they are in to deliver advertisements specials and other information. This allows the merchant to know that the user is at the store and provide specials and other information to the user. If the user is checking in via a social network the user may also provide feedback about the merchant which may be useful or helpful for the merchant. If the user is checking in via a payment processing service such as provided by PayPal Inc. or San Jose Calif. the user may be provided with options for selecting ordering and paying for items through the payment processing service when checking in providing convenience for both the user and the merchant. In theory checking provides benefits for both the user and the merchant. However the users may have to perform the tedious process of checking in every time that they visit the merchant. And if the user does not check in on every visit then neither the user nor the merchant are fully benefits from checking in.

In the following description specific details are set forth describing certain embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. The specific embodiments presented are meant to be illustrative but not limiting. One skilled in the art may realize other material that although not specifically described herein is within the scope and spirit of this disclosure.

There is a need for providing systems and methods for checking a user in when the user is visiting the merchant s physical storefront.

Consistent with some embodiments there is provided a system. The system includes a wireless transceiver configured to receive a packet sequence sent according to a Bluetooth low energy BLE protocol the packet sequence including information identifying a location. The system also includes a network interface component configured to send a check in request including the received packet sequence. The system further includes one or more processors configured to generate the check in request and a memory configured to store the received packet sequence.

Consistent with some embodiments there is further provided a method including receiving a packet sequence sent according to a Bluetooth low energy BLE protocol the packet sequence including information identifying a location sending a check in request to check in to the location when the received packet sequence matches a stored packet sequence specific to the location receiving the packet sequence specific to the location when the received packet sequence does not match a stored packet sequence specific to the location the received packet sequence specific to the location being received over a network and storing the received packet sequence specific to the location. The method may also be embodied in computer readable media.

Embodiments consistent with this disclosure may allow a merchant to use low power transmitting devices to transmit a timed sequence that may be used to automatically check a user into a merchant or other location. These and other embodiments will be described in further detail below with respect to the following figures.

Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

Client computing device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example client computing device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. smart phone tablet personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer personal computer a connected set top box STB such as provided by cable or satellite content providers or a video game system console a head mounted display HMD or other wearable computing device including a wearable computing device having an eyeglass projection screen and or various other generally known types of computing devices.

As shown in system may include one or more beacons that may be in communication with network . In some embodiments beacons may be installed at a merchant location such as a brick and mortar or physical storefront of the merchant. In some embodiments beacons may be Bluetooth Low Energy BLE beacons. BLE is a technology that transmits information at a frequency of about 2.4 GHz about 2042 2480 MHz over forty 40 2 MHz wide channels and has a range of about 50 meter or about 160 feet. Information transmitted according to the BLE protocol may be transmitted at a rate of about 1 Mbit s with an application throughput of about 0.27 Mbit s. In some embodiments BLE communications may be secured using 128 bit Advanced Encryption Standard AES encryption with counter mode with a cipher block chaining message authentication code CBC MAC and user defined security. Further in some embodiments BLE communications may utilize adaptive frequency hopping lazy acknowledgement a 24 bit cyclic redundancy check CRC and 32 bit message integrity check for robustness. Moreover in some embodiments BLE capable devices may consume a fraction of the power of standard Bluetooth devices due to the protocol allowing low duty cycles and being designed for applications that may not require continuous data transfer. Beacons may transmit one or more sequences of information such that when a device such as client computing device capable of receiving information from beacons comes within the range of a beacon the device may receive a transmission from a beacon and be instructed to perform an action such as display an advertisement or check in to a location or merchant using one or more platforms or services capable of receiving and processing check ins. As used herein location may refer to a merchant physical storefront including restaurants department stores home improvement stores caf s and the like and may also refer to a place landmark or museum and generally any location to which user may check in to for the purposes of identifying themselves as being at the location and receiving any information specials offers promotions payment options and other features associated with the location that are accessible once user has checked in. In some embodiments a location may be any place where beacon may be used to automatically check user in to the location.

Client computing device may include any appropriate combination of hardware and or software having one or more processors and capable of reading instructions stored on a tangible non transitory machine readable medium for execution by the one or more processors. Consistent with some embodiments client computing device includes a machine readable medium such as a memory not shown that includes instructions for execution by one or more processors not shown for causing client computing device to perform specific tasks. In some embodiments the instructions may be executed by the one or more processors in response to interaction by user . For example such instructions may include browser application such as a mobile browser application which may be used to provide a user interface to permit user to browse information available over network including information hosted by remote server . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over network . Browser application may include a graphical user interface GUI that is configured to allow user to interface and communicate with remote server or other servers managed by content providers or merchants via network . For example user may be able to access websites to find and purchase items as well as access user account information or web content.

Client computing device may also include a check in application that may allow user to check in to a location using a check in platform or service such as may be provided by PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Foursquare of New York N.Y. Facebook Inc. of Menlo Park Calif. or Google of Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. and implemented by remote server . In some embodiments check in application may include multiple application programming interfaces APIs for checking in to one or more of the check in platforms or services.

In some embodiments checking in to a location while visiting a location such as a merchant physical storefront may provide user with exclusive deals offers or may allow user to purchase and pay for items. In some embodiments user may check in to a location such as a merchant location to access additional information about the location or merchant. For example upon checking in user may be able to view and review product information about products that are offered at the location. As another example user may be able to see an inventory of products that are currently in stock at the location upon checking in. In such embodiments the product inventory may be provided by Milo of San Jose Calif. Checking in may provide user with additional social options. For example user may be presented with a list of other users colleagues acquaintances contacts and the like that are also checked in to the location or a nearby location. In some embodiments user may opt in or opt out of such features.

As noted previously upon checking in user may receive information specials offers promotions payment options and other features associated with the location that are accessible once user has checked in. In some embodiments user may be able to browse through available information specials offers promotions payment options and other features associated with the location once user has checked in and then select those features that user wants to use and or save to client computing device . For example user may browse available offers or coupons upon checking in and then download those that are of interest to user to client computing device for use while user is at the location.

Client computing device may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to user including accessing a user account with remote server . For example applications may include interfaces and communication protocols that allow the user to receive and transmit information through network and to remote server and other online sites. Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. Applications may include mobile applications downloaded and resident on client computing device that enables user to access content through the applications.

Remote server according to some embodiments may be maintained by a service that processes check ins so that a proprietor of a location such as a merchant or others know that user is at the location. Remote server may also be capable of providing access to a merchant s goods and services collectively referred to as items that are for purchase and may provide a payment service processing for the purchased items. Remote server may include at least check in application which may be configured to interact with client computing device connected to network and beacon connected to network to check user in to a location. In some embodiments checking client computing device in to a location may allow user and client computing device to access features specials offers and the like offered by the location. In some embodiments these features specials offers and the like may be provided and processed by remote server on behalf of the location.

Remote server may also include an account database that includes account information for users having an account on remote server such as user . In some embodiments check in application may check user and client computing device in to a location based on information in account information of account database . Account information may include information about user that may be sent to the location or merchant when user is checked in to that location based on preferences of user or opting in or out of such features. For example when user checks in to a location check in application may retrieve information about user to provide to the location or merchant such as a photograph or picture of user an identity of user stored in account information and a frequency or recentness of a last check in at the location or nearby locations. Additional information of user from account information may also be provided to the location or merchant upon a successful check in by user . The additional information may include preferences and favorite items of user at the location or other locations past purchases made by user at the location or nearby locations. The additional information may include known measurements or sizes worn by user if user is checking in to a clothing or shoe store. In some embodiments account information may also include some financial information related to user such as how much user has spent at similar locations how much funds user has in their account associated with remote server and a creditworthiness of user . Further information may also be shared with the merchant or location upon a check in. In some embodiments user may be able to determine and select what information may be shared with a merchant or location upon a check in.

Remote server may include other applications and may also be in communication with one or more external databases that may provide additional information that may be used by remote server . In some embodiments databases may be databases maintained by third parties and may include third party account information of user .

Although discussion has been made of applications and applications on client computing device and remote server the applications may also be in some embodiments modules. Module as used herein may refer to a software module that performs a function when executed by one or more processors or Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or other circuit having memory and at least one processor for executing instructions to perform a function such as the functions described as being performed by the applications.

Consistent with some embodiments computing system includes a system bus for interconnecting various components within computing system and communicating information between the various components. Such components include a processing component which may be one or more processors micro controllers graphics processing units GPUs or digital signal processors DSPs a system memory component which may correspond to random access memory RAM an internal memory component which may correspond to read only memory ROM and an external or static memory which may correspond to optical magnetic or solid state memories. Consistent with some embodiments computing system further includes a display component for displaying information to a user of computing system . Display component may be a liquid crystal display LCD screen an organic light emitting diode OLED screen including active matrix AMOLED screens an LED screen a plasma display or a cathode ray tube CRT display. Computing system may also include an input component allowing for a user of computing system to input information to computing system . Such information could include payment information such as an amount required to complete a transaction account information authentication information such as a credential or identification information. An input component may include for example a keyboard or key pad whether physical or virtual. Computing system may further include a navigation control component configured to allow a user to navigate along display component . Consistent with some embodiments navigation control component may be a mouse a trackball or other such device. Moreover if device includes a touch screen display component input component and navigation control may be a single integrated component such as a capacitive sensor based touch screen.

Computing system may perform specific operations by processing component executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component internal memory component and or external or static memory . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure. Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processing component for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. The medium may correspond to any of system memory internal memory and or external or static memory . Consistent with some embodiments the computer readable medium may be tangible and non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media include optical or magnetic disks and volatile media includes dynamic memory. Some common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computing system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computing systems coupled by a communication link to network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another. Computing system may also include one or more wireless transceivers that may each include an antenna that is separable or integral and is capable of transmitting and receiving information according to one or more wireless network protocols such as Wi Fi 3G 4G HDSPA LTE RF NFC TFEE 802.11a b g n ac or ad Bluetooth BLE WiMAX ZigBee etc. Computing system may transmit and receive messages data and one or more data packets information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and network interface component and wireless transceivers . Received program code may be executed by processing component as received and or stored in memory or .

Beacon also includes a system bus for interconnecting various components within beacon and communicating information between the various components. Such components include a processing component which may be one or more processors micro controllers graphics processing units GPUs or digital signal processors DSPs a memory component firmware and one or more wireless transceivers that may each include an antenna that is separable or integral and is capable of transmitting and receiving information according to one or more wireless network protocols such as Wi Fi 3G 4G HDSPA LTE RF NFC IEEE 802.11a b g n ac or ad Bluetooth BLE WiMAX ZigBee etc. Beacon may also include a power source . Power source may be any power source capable of providing sufficient current to power the components of beacon . In some embodiments power source may be a battery such as a watch battery or button cell.

In some embodiments beacon may be configured to transmit information using wireless transceivers based on instructions stored in memory and or firmware executed by processing component . The instructions may be stored in memory and or firmware by directly writing the instructions to memory and or firmware over communication link to beacon hardware interface or by wirelessly receiving instructions by wireless transceivers . In some embodiments beacon may be configured to transmit information related to checking in to a merchant associated with beacon . In some embodiments the transmitted information may include a packet sequence received from remote server that identifies a particular merchant or location. The packet sequence may include packets having a small size such as 32 bits that may include information that may be used to identify the location or merchant. In some embodiments beacon may also transmit instructions that when received by client computing device may cause check in application or other applications to be executed by processing component to cause client computing device to perform a check in at the merchant or location associated with beacon . Further beacon may transfer instructions that when received by client computing device to allow user to authorize a payment to be processed by remote server . In some embodiments wireless transceiver may correspond to a BLE transceiver configured to transmit and receive information according to the BLE protocol. In some embodiments beacon may be a BLE beacon or dongle such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 860 filed on Jul. 10 2013 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Further BLE beacon may have a design such as shown in U.S. Design application Ser. No. 29 455 720 filed May 23 2013 the entire contents of which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Once remote server has checked user in to the location remote server may provide an identity of the merchant associated with beacon for user to review to ensure that they are checking in to the desired merchant or location. User may then send a confirmation to remote server . When remote server receives the confirmation any actions associated with the check in may be completed. Such actions may include authorizing payments to a merchant or location with such payments being processed by remote server . Such actions may also include receiving offers specials coupons and the like for use at the merchant or location at which beacon is installed or otherwise associated with.

In some embodiments to reduce the number of packet sequences needed to cover each location the packet sequences may correspond to a particular geographic location such as a square mile zone improvement plan ZIP code city country time zone and the like. Consequently for each geographic location every location or merchant in that geographic location having beacon that may be used to automatically check in user having client computing device has a unique and specific packet sequence. In such embodiments a global positioning system GPS transceiver or other location determining component in client computing device could be used to determine a fine or rough location of client computing device and the geographic location of the location or merchant that user is at and this location could be sent to remote server along with the check in request so that remote server identifies the location for checking in based on the packet sequence and the geographic location. Similarly other ways of partitioning locations to reduce the number of packet sequences needed may be used. In some embodiments the flow shown in may be repeated for each location having beacons that transmit a specific and unique packet sequence such that client computing device may check in to each location based on the received packet sequence.

Once remote server has checked user in to the location remote server may provide an identity of the merchant associated with beacon for user to review to ensure that they are checking in to the desired merchant or location. User may then send a confirmation to remote server . When remote server receives the confirmation any actions associated with the check in may be completed. Such actions may include authorizing payments to a merchant or location with such payments being processed by remote server . Such actions may also include receiving offers specials coupons and the like for use at the merchant or location at which beacon is installed or otherwise associated with. In some embodiments the flow shown in may be repeated for each location having beacons that transmit a specific and unique packet sequence such that client computing device may be prompted to check in to a location in each location based on the received packet sequence.

Once remote server has checked user in to the location remote server may provide an identity of the merchant associated with beacon for user to review to ensure that they are checking in to the desired merchant or location. User may then send a confirmation to remote server . When remote server receives the confirmation any actions associated with the check in may be completed. Such actions may include authorizing payments to a merchant or location with such payments being processed by remote server . Such actions may also include receiving offers specials coupons and the like for use at the merchant or location at which beacon is installed or otherwise associated with. Remote server may then send client computing device a message requesting permission for automatically checking user in whenever user is at the location. When user accepts or enrolls in an automatic check in remote server may send the specific sequence of packets that correspond to the location to client computing device . Client computing device may then store the specific sequence of packets in any of memory . Consequently the next time user having client computing device arrives at or enters the same location when client computing device receives the specific sequence of packets sent by beacon processing component of client computing device may match the received sequence to the specific sequence stored in any of memories and automatically execute a check in protocol to send a check in request to remote server when the received sequence matches the stored sequence. In some embodiments the flow shown in may be repeated for each location having beacons that transmit a specific and unique packet sequence such that any of memories of client computing device may store a specific and unique sequence for each location enabling user having client computing device to automatically check in to each location based on the received packet sequence.

When processing component determines that the received packet sequence matches a stored packet sequence network interface component of client computing device may execute a check in protocol and send a check in request . When processing component determines that the received packet sequence does not match a stored packet sequence client computing device may execute a check in protocol and send a check in request . In some embodiments the packet sequence may have instructions that may be executed by processing component of client computing device and may cause client computing device to perform an action such as executing a check in protocol sending a check in request and or executing check in application . In some embodiments the check in request may be sent to remote server . Client computing device may receive an identification of the location that they are checking in to allowing user to confirm or deny the check in request. When user does not confirm the location to which they are attempting to check in process may terminate or end . When user confirms the location client computing device may send a confirmation to remote server . Client computing device may then receive a notification that an action has been completed . In some embodiments the completed action may be a successful check in and or the authorization of a payment completion of a transaction a receipt of an offer and the like. Moreover the completed action may be additional location specific features such as previously described.

After the action has been completed client computing device may receive a request for permission to automatically check in at the location on future visits . When user grants permission client computing device may send a permission grant . Client computing device may then receive a packet sequence that is specific to that location and store the location specific packet sequence in one of memories . Consequently the next time user visits that location with client computing device user may receive a packet sequence from beacon and automatically execute a check in protocol and send a check in request . In some embodiments beacon as referred to with respect to process may refer to a BLE beacon. Moreover information sent from and received at client computing device in process may be information sent in response to instructions executed by processing component and sent from and received by at least one of network interface component and wireless transceiver .

Processing component of remote server may attempt to match the received packet sequence to a particular location and check user in to the location based on a matching packet sequence . In some embodiments particular locations may have a packet sequence that identifies that particular location and may be saved in account database and or databases . Processing component may attempt to match the received packet sequence to one of the saved locations and check user in to the matching location. Remote server may then send an identity of the location or merchant for confirmation purposes . When remote server does not receive a confirmation process may end or terminate . When remote server receives a confirmation remote server may complete an action . In some embodiments completing an action may include processing a payment or authorizing a payment checking user in to the location or merchant or sending an offer and the like to client computing device . Information sent from and received at remote server in process may be information sent in response to instructions executed by processing component and sent from and received by at least one of network interface component and wireless transceiver .

However when user is not automatically enrolled in automatic check ins at this location remote server may send a request for permission to automatically check in at the location . When user does not grant permission remote server may proceed to match the received sequence to the particular location and check user in at the location . However when user grants permission and enrolls in automatic check ins at the location remote server may send a specific packet sequence to client computing device . In some embodiments the packet sequence may comprise a sequence of packets having a small packet size which in some embodiments may be 32 bits having a predetermined time therebetween and may include instructions for execution by processing component of client computing device . The packet sequence may also include information in the packets that is specific to the location and may be used to identify the location. Moreover the packet sequence may be stored by client computing device and may be used to automatically check in at a location as the packet sequence may match a packet sequence transmitted by a BLE beacon at that location. Information sent from and received at remote server in process may be information sent in response to instructions executed by processing component and sent from and received by at least one of network interface component and wireless transceiver .

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums including non transitory machine readable medium. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Consequently embodiments as described herein may provide systems and methods for automatically checking a user in to a location using a packet sequence sent by a BLE beacon that is unique to the location and or identifies the location. The examples provided above are exemplary only and are not intended to be limiting. One skilled in the art may readily devise other systems consistent with the disclosed embodiments which are intended to be within the scope of this disclosure. As such the application is limited only by the following claims.

