---

title: Synergistic weed control from applications of aminocyclopyrachlor and 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D)
abstract: Disclosed herein are herbicidal compositions comprising a synergistically herbicidal effective amount of (a) aminocyclopyrachlor, or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof, and (b) 2,4-D, or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. Also disclosed herein are methods of controlling undesirable vegetation, which comprise applying to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applying to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation (a) aminocyclopyrachlor, or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof, and (b) 2,4-D, or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof, wherein (a) and (b) are each added in an amount sufficient to produce a synergistic herbicidal effect.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09149037&OS=09149037&RS=09149037
owner: Dow AgroSciences LLC
number: 09149037
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131206
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 736 207 filed Dec. 12 2012 the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to herbicidal compositions comprising a synergistically herbicidal effective amount of a aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and b 2 4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. The present disclosure also relates to methods for controlling undesirable vegetation.

Many recurring problems in agriculture involve controlling growth of undesirable vegetation that can for instance inhibit crop growth. To help control undesirable vegetation researchers have produced a variety of chemicals and chemical formulations effective in controlling such unwanted growth. However a continuing need exists for new compositions and methods to control growth of undesirable vegetation.

Herbicides of many types have been disclosed in the literature and a number are in commercial use. In some cases herbicidal active ingredients have been found more effective in combination than when applied individually and this is referred to as synergy or synergism. The present disclosure is based on the discovery that a aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and b 2 4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof display a synergistic herbicidal effect when applied in combination.

Accordingly the present disclosure relates to herbicidal compositions comprising a synergistically herbicidal effective amount of a aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and b 2 4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. In some embodiments a includes aminocyclopyrachlor in acid form. In some embodiments b is selected from the group consisting of the ethyl iso propyl butyl iso butyl iso octyl 2 ethylhexyl and 2 butoxyethyl esters of 2 4 D and the sodium iso propylammonium dimethylammonium diethanolammonium di iso propylammonium triethanolammonium tri iso propylammonium tri iso propanolammonium and choline salts of 2 4 D. The acid equivalent weight ratio of a to b can be from 1 560 to 2.4 1 e.g. from 1 32 to 1 5.3 . In some embodiments the composition further comprises an additional pesticide e.g. amicarbazone aminopyralid bromoxynil chlorsulfuron clopyralid dicamba dichlorprop P diclosulam diuron florasulam flucarbazone sodium flumetsulam fluroxypyr glyphosate glufosinate imazamox imazapyr imazapic imazaquin imazethapyr imazamethabenz indaziflam ioxynil MCPA mecoprop P metsulfuron methyl oxyfluorfen penoxsulam picloram pinoxaden pyroxsulam rimsulfuron sulfometuron thifensulfuron methyl tebuthiuron tribenuron methyl triclopyr or agriculturally acceptable salts or esters or mixtures thereof . The additional pesticide can include aminopyralid choline salt triclopyr choline salt or a mixture thereof. In some embodiments the composition is free of naptalam and salts and esters thereof. In some embodiments the composition further comprises a herbicidal safener an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant or carrier or a combination thereof.

The present disclosure also relates to methods of controlling undesirable vegetation which comprise applying to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applying to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation a aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and b 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof wherein a and b are each added in an amount sufficient to produce a synergistic herbicidal effect. In some embodiments a and b are applied simultaneously. In some embodiments a and b are applied postemergence to the undesirable vegetation. The undesirable vegetation can be controlled in for instance cereals conservation reserve program CRP lands trees and vines grasses grown for seed pastures grasslands rangelands industrial vegetation management IVM fallow land forestry wildlife management areas rights of way aquatics sugar cane or turf. In some embodiments the undesirable vegetation is a broadleaf weed a woody plant or a semi woody plant. The undesirable vegetation can be controlled in crops tolerant to glyphosate glufosinate dicamba phenoxy auxins pyridyloxy auxins aryloxyphenoxypropionates acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors imidazolinones acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors triazines bromoxynil or combinations thereof. For example the undesired vegetation can be controlled in phenoxy acid tolerant crops and the phenoxy acid tolerant crops have tolerance conferred by an AAD12 gene. In some embodiments the undesirable vegetation is resistant to auxinic herbicides. In some embodiments a is applied in an amount of from 8 240 grams of acid equivalent per hectare g ae ha . In some embodiments b is applied in an amount of from 100 4483 g ae ha.

The description below sets forth details of one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and from the claims.

The present disclosure relates to herbicidal compositions comprising a synergistically herbicidal effective amount of a aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and b 2 4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. The present disclosure also relates to methods for controlling undesirable vegetation.

The term herbicide as used herein means an active ingredient that kills controls or otherwise adversely modifies the growth of vegetation. A herbicidally effective amount is an amount of an active ingredient that causes a herbicidal effect i.e. an adversely modifying effect and includes deviations from for instance natural development killing regulation desiccation and retardation. The terms plants and vegetation can include for instance germinant seeds emerging seedlings and established vegetation.

Compositions and methods of the present disclosure can include aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. Aminocyclopyrachlor shown below is a herbicide that can be used to control broadleaf weeds in for instance lawns e.g. residential industrial and institutional golf courses parks cemeteries athletic fields sod farms range and pasture IVM rights of way roadsides railroads and other crop and non crop uses. Its herbicidal activity is described in Tomlin C. D. S. Ed. 15ed. BCPC Alton 2009 hereafter Fifteenth Edition 2009 .

In some embodiments the aminocyclopyrachlor is in acid form and is 6 amino 5 chloro 2 cyclopropylpyrimidine 4 carboxylic acid 6 amino 5 chloro 2 cyclopropyl 4 pyrimidinecarboxylic acid . In some embodiments the aminocyclopyrachlor is in the form of an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable salts or esters of aminocyclopyrachlor include but are not limited to sodium salts potassium salts ammonium salts or substituted ammonium salts e.g. mono di and tri C C alkylammonium salts such as methyl ammonium dimethylammonium and isopropylammonium mono di and tri hydroxy C C alkylammonium salts such as hydroxyethylammonium di hydroxyethyl ammonium tri hydroxyethyl ammonium hydroxypropylammonium di hydroxypropyl ammonium and tri hydroxypropyl ammonium salts and their diglycolamine salts and their esters e.g. its C C alkyl esters and C C alkoxy C C alkyl esters such as methyl esters ethyl esters isopropyl butyl hexyl heptyl isoheptyl isooctyl 2 ethylhexyl and butoxyethyl esters and aryl esters such as benzyl . Exemplary agriculturally acceptable salts of aminocyclopyrachlor can include aminocyclopyrachlor sodium aminocyclopyrachlor potassium aminocyclopyrachlor choline salt or mixtures thereof. An exemplary agriculturally acceptable ester of aminocyclopyrachlor can include aminocyclopyrachlor methyl Aminocyclopyrachlor or agriculturally acceptable salts or esters thereof are or have been commercially available for example from DuPont Crop Protection under the trademarks IMPRELIS REJUVRA STREAMLINE VIEWPOINT METHOD and PLAINVIEW .

The aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof can be applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount sufficient to induce a herbicidal effect. In some embodiments the aminocyclopyrachlor or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 8 grams of acid equivalent per hectare g ae ha or greater e.g. 10 g ae ha or greater 15 g ae ha or greater 20 g ae ha or greater 25 g ae ha or greater 30 g ae ha or greater 35 g ae ha or greater 40 g ae ha or greater 45 g ae ha or greater 50 g ae ha or greater 55 g ae ha or greater 60 g ae ha or greater 65 g ae ha or greater 70 g ae ha or greater 75 g ae ha or greater 80 g ae ha or greater 85 g ae ha or greater 90 g ae ha or greater 95 g ae ha or greater 100 g ae ha or greater 105 g ae ha or greater 110 g ae ha or greater 115 g ae ha or greater 120 g ae ha or greater 140 g ae ha or greater 160 g ae ha or greater 180 g ae ha or greater 200 g ae ha or greater or 220 g ae ha or greater . In some embodiments the aminocyclopyrachlor or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 240 g ae ha or less e.g. 230 g ae ha or less 220 g ae ha or less 210 g ae ha or less 200 g ae ha or less 190 g ae ha or less 180 g ae ha or less 170 g ae ha or less 160 g ae ha or less 150 g ae ha or less 140 g ae ha or less 130 g ae ha or less 120 g ae ha or less 110 g ae ha or less 100 g ae ha or less 90 g ae ha or less 80 g ae ha or less 70 g ae ha or less 60 g ae ha or less 50 g ae ha or less 40 g ae ha or less 30 g ae ha or less 25 g ae ha or less 20 g ae ha or less 15 g ae ha or less or 10 g ae ha or less . In some embodiments the aminocyclopyrachlor or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of from 8 240 g ae ha e.g. from 16 220 g ae ha from 35 210 g ae ha from 50 180 g ae ha from 60 160 g ae ha or from 70 140 g ae ha .

Compositions and methods of the present disclosure can include 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. 2 4 D shown below is a herbicide that can be used to control broadleaf weeds in for instance asparagus cereals corn grasses hay rice sorghum soybeans preplant sugarcane fallowland pasture rangeland turf and noncropland. Its herbicidal activity is described in TPM Fifteenth Edition 2009.

2 4 D can be provided in its acid form as shown above or as an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable salts or esters of 2 4 D include but are not limited to sodium salts potassium salts ammonium salts or substituted ammonium salts in particular mono di and tri C C alkylammonium salts such as methyl ammonium dimethylammonium and isopropylammonium e.g. triisopropanolammonium mono di and tri hydroxy C2 C8 alkylammonium salts such as hydroxyethylammonium di hydroxyethyl ammonium tri hydroxyethyl ammonium hydroxypropylammonium di hydroxypropyl ammonium and tri hydroxypropyl ammonium salts their diglycolamine salts and their esters in particular its C C alkyl esters and C C alkoxy C C alkyl esters such as methyl esters ethyl esters isopropyl butyl hexyl heptyl isoheptyl isooctyl 2 ethylhexyl and butoxyethyl esters. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable salts or esters of 2 4 D can include but are not limited to the ethyl iso propyl butyl iso butyl iso octyl 2 ethylhexyl and 2 butoxyethyl esters of 2 4 D and the sodium iso propylammonium dimethylammonium diethanolammonium di iso propylammonium triethanolammonium tri iso propylammonium tri iso propanolammonium and choline salts of 2 4 D and mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the 2 4 D is provided as an amine salt such as 2 4 D olamine salt dimethylamine DMA salt monoethanolamine MEA salt triisopropanolamine TIPA salt or a mixture thereof. 2 4 D and agriculturally acceptable salts or esters thereof are or have been commercially available for example under the trademark AKOPUR by AAKO B.V. ACMECHECK or ACMEHALT by AOP. L. DIEON by A CC. I. GL. D AMIN by AP. L. D 638 FIVE STAR ORCHARD STAR and SOLVE by A I. CITRIS FIX or HIVOL 44 by AMVAC C. C. MEGATOX by ACCS.B. CORNOX by AA VP. I. HERBIFEN by AS. A. CRISALAMINA or CRISAMINA by CC. I A KILLER by FP. L. ESTER H or HEKTAFERMIN by HTT.A.S. WEEDKILLER by HSC. L. HIT RR SUPERHIT or TWISTER by I I L. AMINOL by MAG DRI CLEAN ESTERON 99C FORMULA 40 ORCHARD CLEAN SOLUTION TURRET WEEDAR 64 WEEDESTROY AM 40 or WEEDONE by NA. I. AMINE 400 HI DEP ORCHARD MASTER or PASTURE PRO by PBI GC. PILAR 2 4 D by PAS C C. AMIN EXT DI AMINO ESTER EXT SAFA ESTER by SAFA TARIM A.S. AMINOZ or AMINOZ CT by S A P. L. SCULPIN by SPRO C. or D AMIN GOLD COIN AMINE or ZA AMINE by ZSP. L. .

The 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof described herein can be used in an amount sufficient to induce a herbicidal effect. In some embodiments the 2 4 D or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 100 grams of acid equivalent per hectare g ae ha or greater e.g. 150 g ae ha or greater 200 g ae ha or greater 250 g ae ha or greater 300 g ae ha or greater 350 g ae ha or greater 400 g ae ha or greater 450 g ae ha or greater 500 g ae ha or greater 550 g ae ha or greater 600 g ae ha or greater 650 g ae ha or greater 700 g ae ha or greater 750 g ae ha or greater 800 g ae ha or greater 850 g ae ha or greater 900 g ae ha or greater 1000 g ae ha or greater 1020 g ae ha or greater 1040 g ae ha or greater 1060 g ae ha or greater 1080 g ae ha or greater 1100 g ae ha or greater 1120 g ae ha or greater 1140 g ae ha or greater 1160 g ae ha or greater 1180 g ae ha or greater 1200 g ae ha or greater 1220 g ae ha or greater 1240 g ae ha or greater 1260 g ae ha or greater 1280 g ae ha or greater 1300 g ae ha or greater 1320 g ae ha or greater 1340 g ae ha or greater 1360 g ae ha or greater 1380 g ae ha or greater 1400 g ae ha or greater 1450 g ae ha or greater 1500 g ae ha or greater 1600 g ae ha or greater 1700 g ae ha or greater 1800 g ae ha or greater 1900 g ae ha or greater 2000 g ae ha or greater 2100 g ae ha or greater 2200 g ae ha or greater 2300 g ae ha or greater 2400 g ae ha or greater 2500 g ae ha or greater 2600 g ae ha or greater 2700 g ae ha or greater 2800 g ae ha or greater 2900 g ae ha or greater 3000 g ae ha or greater 3100 g ae ha or greater 3200 g ae ha or greater 3300 g ae ha or greater 3400 g ae ha or greater 3500 g ae ha or greater 3600 g ae ha or greater 3700 g ae ha or greater 3800 g ae ha or greater 3900 g ae ha or greater 4000 g ae ha or greater 4100 g ae ha or greater 4200 g ae ha or greater 4300 g ae ha or greater or 4400 g ae ha or greater . In some embodiments the 2 4 D or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 4483 g ae ha or less e.g. 4400 g ae ha or less 4300 g ae ha or less 4200 g ae ha or less 4100 g ae ha or less 4000 g ae ha or less 3900 g ae ha or less 3800 g ae ha or less 3700 g ae ha or less 3600 g ae ha or less 3500 g ae ha or less 3400 g ae ha or less 3300 g ae ha or less 3200 g ae ha or less 3100 g ae ha or less 3000 g ae ha or less 2900 g ae ha or less 2800 g ae ha or less 2700 g ae ha or less 2600 g ae ha or less 2500 g ae ha or less 2400 g ae ha or less 2300 g ae ha or less 2200 g ae ha or less 2100 g ae ha or less 2000 g ae ha or less 1900 g ae ha or less 1800 g ae ha or less 1700 g ae ha or less 1600 g ae ha or less 1500 g ae ha or less 1450 g ae ha or less 1400 g ae ha or less 1380 g ae ha or less 1360 g ae ha or less 1340 g ae ha or less 1320 g ae ha or less 1300 g ae ha or less 1280 g ae ha or less 1260 g ae ha or less 1240 g ae ha or less 1220 g ae ha or less 1200 g ae ha or less 1180 g ae ha or less 1160 g ae ha or less 1140 g ae ha or less 1120 g ae ha or less 1100 g ae ha or less 1080 g ae ha or less 1060 g ae ha or less 1040 g ae ha or less 1020 g ae ha or less 1000 g ae ha or less 950 g ae ha or less 900 g ae ha or less 850 g ae ha or less 800 g ae ha or less 750 g ae ha or less 700 g ae ha or less 650 g ae ha or less 600 g ae ha or less 550 g ae ha or less 500 g ae ha or less 450 g ae ha or less 400 g ae ha or less 350 g ae ha or less 300 g ae ha or less 250 g ae ha or less 200 g ae ha or less or 150 g ae ha or less . In some embodiments the 2 4 D or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of from 100 4483 g ae ha e.g. from 200 4000 g ae ha from 300 3500 g ae ha from 400 3000 g ae ha from 500 2500 g ae ha from 600 2000 g ae ha from 700 1600 g ae ha from 800 1450 g ae ha from 900 1350 g ae ha or from 1000 1260 g ae ha .

The a aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is mixed with or applied in combination with b 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof in an amount sufficient to induce a synergistic herbicidal effect. In some embodiments a and b are used in an amount sufficient to induce a synergistic herbicidal effect while still showing good crop compatibility i.e. their use in crops does not result in increased damage to crops when compared to the individual application of the herbicidal compounds a or b . As described in the of the Weed Science Society of America Ninth Edition 2007 p. 429 synergism is an interaction of two or more factors such that the effect when combined is greater than the predicted effect based on the response to each factor applied separately. Synergistic in the herbicide context can mean that the use of a and b as defined above results in an increased weed control effect compared to the weed control effects that are possible with the use of a or b alone. In some embodiments the damage or injury to the undesired vegetation caused by the compositions and methods disclosed herein is evaluated using a scale from 0 to 100 when compared with the untreated control vegetation wherein 0 indicates no damage to the undesired vegetation and 100 indicates complete destruction of the undesired vegetation. In some embodiments Colby s formula is applied to determine whether using a and b in combination shows a synergistic effect S. R. Colby W15 p. 22 1967 

X effect in percent using a aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof at an application rate a 

Y effect in percent using b 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof at an application rate b 

In Colby s equation the value E corresponds to the effect plant damage or injury that is to be expected if the activity of the individual compounds is additive. If the observed effect is higher than the value E calculated according to the Colby equation then a synergistic effect is present according to the Colby equation.

In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein are synergistic as defined by the Colby equation. In some embodiments the joint action of aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof results in enhanced activity against undesired vegetation via synergism even at application rates below those typically used for the pesticide to have a herbicidal effect on its own. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can based on the individual components be used at lower application rates to achieve a herbicidal effect comparable to the effect produced by the individual components at normal application rates. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein provide an accelerated action on undesired vegetation i.e. they effect damaging of undesired vegetation more quickly compared with application of the individual herbicides .

In some embodiments the acid equivalent weight ratio of a aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof to b 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof that is sufficient to induce a synergistic herbicidal effect is at least 1 560 e.g. at least 1 500 at least 1 450 at least 1 400 at least 1 350 at least 1 300 at least 1 250 at least 1 200 at least 1 150 at least 1 100 at least 1 90 at least 1 80 at least 1 70 at least 1 60 at least 1 50 at least 1 45 at least 1 40 at least 1 35 at least 1 30 at least 1 25 at least 1 20 at least 1 15 at least 1 10 at least 1 5 at least 1 4 at least 1 3 at least 1 2 at least 1 1 at least 1.5 1 at least 2 1 . In some embodiments the acid equivalent weight ratio of a to b that is sufficient to induce a synergistic herbicidal effect is 2.4 1 or less e.g. 2 1 or less 1.5 1 or less 1 1 or less 1 2 or less 1 3 or less 1 4 or less 1 5 or less 1 10 or less 1 15 or less 1 20 or less 1 25 or less 1 30 or less 1 35 or less 1 40 or less 1 45 or less 1 50 or less 1 60 or less 1 70 or less 1 80 or less 1 90 or less 1 100 or less 1 150 or less 1 200 or less 1 250 or less 1 300 or less 1 350 or less 1 400 or less 1 450 or less 1 500 or less or 1 525 or less . In some embodiments the acid equivalent weight ratio of a to b is from 1 560 to 2.4 1 e.g. from 1 300 to 2 1 from 1 150 to 1.5 1 from 1 75 to 1 1 from 1 32 to 3 4 or from 1 32 to 1 8 . In some embodiments the acid equivalent weight ratio of a to b is from 1 32 to 1 5.3.

The present disclosure also relates to formulations of the compositions and methods disclosed herein. In some embodiments the formulation can be in the form of a single package formulation including both a aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and b 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. In some embodiments the formulation can be in the form of a single package formulation including both a and b and further including at least one additive. In some embodiments the formulation can be in the form of a two package formulation wherein one package contains a and optionally at least one additive while the other package contains b and optionally at least one additive. In some embodiments of the two package formulation the formulation including a and optionally at least one additive and the formulation including b and optionally at least one additive are mixed before application and then applied simultaneously. In some embodiments the mixing is performed as a tank mix i.e. the formulations are mixed immediately before or upon dilution with water . In some embodiments the formulation including a and the formulation including b are not mixed but are applied sequentially in succession for example immediately or within 1 hour within 2 hours within 4 hours within 8 hours within 16 hours within 24 hours within 2 days or within 3 days of each other.

In some embodiments the formulation of a and b is present in suspended emulsified or dissolved form. Exemplary formulations include but are not limited to aqueous solutions powders suspensions also highly concentrated aqueous oily or other suspensions or dispersions aqueous emulsions aqueous microemulsions aqueous suspo emulsions oil dispersions pastes dusts and materials for spreading or granules.

In some embodiments a aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and or b 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is an aqueous solution that can be diluted before use. In some embodiments a and or b is provided as a high strength formulation such as a concentrate. In some embodiments the concentrate is stable and retains potency during storage and shipping. In some embodiments the concentrate is a clear homogeneous liquid that is stable at temperatures of 54 C. or greater. In some embodiments the concentrate does not exhibit any precipitation of solids at temperatures of 10 C. or higher. In some embodiments the concentrate does not exhibit separation precipitation or crystallization of any components at low temperatures. For example the concentrate remains a clear solution at temperatures below 0 C. e.g. below 5 C. below 10 C. below 15 C. . In some embodiments the concentrate exhibits a viscosity of less than 50 centipoise 50 megapascals even at temperatures as low as 5 C.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can also be mixed with or applied with an additive. In some embodiments the additive can be diluted in water or can be concentrated. In some embodiments the additive is added sequentially. In some embodiments the additive is added simultaneously. In some embodiments the additive is premixed with the aminocyclopyrachlor or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. In some embodiments the additive is premixed with the 2 4 D or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. In some embodiments the additive is premixed with the aminocyclopyrachlor or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester and the 2 4 D or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof.

In some embodiments the additive is an additional pesticide. Exemplary additional pesticides include but are not limited to acetochlor aclonifen amicarbazone 4 aminopicolinic acid based herbicides such as halauxifen halauxifen methyl and those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 314 849 B2 and 7 432 227 B2 ametryn amidosulfuron aminopyralid aminotriazole ammonium thiocyanate asulam anilofos atrazine beflubutamid benazolin bentazone bifenox bromacil bromoxynil butachlor butafenacil butralin butroxydim carbetamide carfentrazone carfentrazone ethyl chlormequat chlorsulfuron chlortoluron cinidon ethyl clethodim clodinafop propargyl clomazone cyanazine cyclosulfamuron cycloxydim dicamba dichlobenil dichlorprop dichlorprop P diclofop methyl diclosulam diflufenican diflufenzopyr dimefuron dimethachlor diquat diuron EPTC ethoxysulfuron fenoxaprop fenoxaprop ethyl fenoxaprop ethyl isoxadifen ethyl fenoxaprop P ethyl fenoxasulfone flazasulfuron florasulam fluazifop fluazifop P butyl flucarbazone flucarbazone sodium flucetosulfuron LGC 42153 flufenacet flumetsulam flumioxazin flupyrsulfuron fluroxypyr fluroxypyr meptyl flurtamone gibberellic acid glufosinate glufosinate ammonium glyphosate haloxyfop methyl haloxyfop R hexazinone imazamethabenz imazamox imazapic imazapyr imazaquin imazethapyr imazosulfuron indanofan indaziflam iodosulfuron iodosulfuron ethyl sodium ioxynil isoproturon isoxaben isoxaflutole lactofen linuron MCPA MCPB mecoprop mecoprop P mesosulfuron mesosulfuron ethyl sodium metazochlor metosulam metribuzin metsulfuron metsulfuron methyl MSMA 1 napthaleneacetic acid napropamide norflurazon orthosulfamuron oryzalin oxadiargyl oxadiazon oxyfluorfen paraquat pendimethalin penoxsulam picloram picolinafen pinoxaden piperophos primisulfuron profluazol prometon propanil propaquizafop propoxycarbazone propyzamide prosulfocarb prosulfuron pyraflufen ethyl pyrasulfotole pyribenzoxim LGC 40863 pyroxsulam pyroxasulfone quinclorac quinmerac quizalofop ethyl D quizalofop P ethyl quizalofop P tefuryl rimsulfuron sethoxydim simazine sulfentrazone sulfometuron sulfosate sulfosulfuron tebuthiuron tepraloxidim terbacil terbutryn thiazopyr thiencarbazone methyl thifensulfuron thifensulfuron methyl topramezone tralkoxydim triasulfuron tribenuron tribenuron methyl triafamone triclopyr and trifluralin and agriculturally acceptable salts esters and mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the additional pesticide includes aminopyralid choline salt triclopyr choline salt or a mixture thereof.

In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein do not incorporate naptalam i.e. N 1 naphthylphthalamic acid or NPA or the salts or esters thereof. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein are free of naptalam or the salts or esters thereof. In some embodiments naptalam or the salts or esters thereof are not applied to the vegetation the area adjacent to the vegetation the soil or the water in the methods disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is provided in a premixed formulation with an additional pesticide. In some embodiments the aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is premixed with chlorsulfuron dicamba imazapyr glufosinate glyphosate MCPA metsulfuron methyl or mixtures thereof. Exemplary premixes of aminocyclopyrachlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and an additive that are or have been commercially available include but are not limited to PERSPECTIVE a premix incorporating chlorsulfuron by DPCP VIEWPOINT a premix incorporating imazapyr and metsulfuron methyl by DPCP PLAINVIEW a premix incorporating sulfometuron and chlorsulfuron by DPCP or STREAMLINE a premix incorporating metsulfuron methyl by DPCP .

In some embodiments the 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is provided in a premixed formulation with an additional pesticide. In some embodiments the 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is premixed with clopyralid fluroxypyr metsulfuron methyl 2 4 D or mixtures thereof. Exemplary premixes of 2 4 D or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and an additive that are or have been commercially available include but are not limited to GESAPAZ H a premix incorporating ametryn by S TRINATOX D a premix incorporating ametryn by PS.A. C.V. VERSATIL a premix incorporating ametryn by AV S.A. C.V. ANILO D a premix incorporating anilofos by LC. L. SHOTGUN a premix incorporating atrazine by LP I. UAP. TOPSHOT a premix incorporating bentazone and cyanazine by BASF C. LLC DOUBLE UP B D a premix incorporating bromoxynil by HC. C. MAESTRO D a premix incorporating bromoxynil by NA. I. THUMPER a premix incorporating bromoxynil by BCS WECO MAX a premix incorporating bromoxynil by W EC. CLEENSWEEP D a premix incorporating bromoxynil and fluroxypyr by NA. I. TRIO a premix incorporating bromonxynil and propanil by BCS THUMPER TOTAL a premix incorporating bromoxynil and thiencarbazone methyl by BCS BLOG a premix incorporating butachlor by APTE L. WEEDCLEAN a premix incorporating butachlor by LC. L. RAGE D TECH a premix incorporating carfentrazone ethyl by FMC CORP. SPEEDZONE a premix incorporating carfentrazone ethyl dicamba and mecoprop P by PBI GC. LOTUS D a premix incorporating cinidon ethyl by BASF C. COMMANDO a premix incorporating clopyralid by A I. CURTAIL a premix incorporating clopyralid by DASLLC CUTBACK a premix incorporating clopyralid by NA. I. MILLENNIUM ULTRA 2 a premix incorporating clopyralid and dicamba by NA. I. BANVEL 2 4 D a premix incorporating dicamba by ALSN. A. C. BRASH a premix incorporating dicamba by WSLLC BRUSH RHAP a premix incorporating dicamba by HC. C. DIACHEM a premix incorporating dicamba by P KAMBAMASTER a premix incorporating dicamba by NA. I. LATIGO a premix incorporating dicamba by HC. C. MAGNOLIA SUPER a premix incorporating dicamba by HTT.A.S. RANGE STAR a premix incorporating dicamba by A I. RIFLE D a premix incorporating dicamba by LP. I. UAP. SELECTONE G a premix incorporating dicamba by C AS.A. TROOPER a premix incorporating dicamba by MACP L. VALSAMBA a premix incorporating dicamba by SAAG VALSAMIN a premix incorporating dicamba by SAAG VETERAN 720 a premix incorporating dicamba by NA. I. WEEDMASTER a premix incorporating dicamba by BASF C. BRUSHMASTER a premix incorporating dicamba and dichlorprop by PBI GC. DURTOK 540 a premix incorporating dicamba and dichlorprop by IS.A. DURTOCK AMINA a premix incorporating dicamba and dichlorprop by IS.A. SUPER TRIMEC a premix incorporating dicamba and dichlorprop by PBI GC. SUPERBRUSH KILLER a premix incorporating dicamba and dichlorprop by PBI GC. ESCALADE 2 a premix incorporating dicamba and fluroxypyr by NA. I. TRIMONAL a premix incorporating dicamba and MCPA by C AS.A. DYVEL DS a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop by BASF C. ENDRUN a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop by HC. C. TRIMEC 1000 a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop by PBI GC. TRIMEC 992 a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop by PBI GC. TRIMEC BENTGRASS a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop by PBI GC. TRIMEC CLASSIC a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop by PBI GC. TRIMEC SOUTHERN a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop by PBI GC. TRIMEC PLUS a premix incorporating dicamba mecoprop and MSMA by PBI Gordon Corp. MEC AMINE D a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop P by LP. I. STRIKE 3 a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop P by WS LLC TRIPLET a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop P by NA. I. TRUPOWER2 a premix incorporating dicamba and mecoprop P by NA. I. 4 SPEED a premix incorporating dicamba pyraflufen ethyl and mecoprop P by NA. I. SURGE a premix incorporating dicamba sulfentrazone and mecoprop P by PBI GC. CIMARRON MAX a premix incorporating dicamba and metsulfuron methyl by DPCP TROOPER EXTRA a premix incorporating dicamba and picloram by NA. I. 4 SPEED XT a premix incorporating dicamba pyraflufen ethyl and triclopyr by NA. I. QUINCEPT a premix incorporating dicamba and quinclorac by NA. I. Q4 PLUS a premix incorporating dicamba quinclorac and sulfentrazone by PBI GC. FOUNDATION a premix incorporating dicamba sulfentrazone and triclopyr by W EC. T ZONE a premix incorporating dicamba sulfentrazone and triclopyr by NA. I. MALEZAFIN 57 a premix incorporating dicloroprop by IS.A. DUPLOSAN DP D a premix incorporating dichloroprop P by BASF C. SUPLOSAN KOMBI a premix incorporating dichloroprop P by BASF C. PATRON 170 a premix incorporating dichloroprop P by NA. I. STRIKE THREE ULTRA 2 a premix incorporating dichloroprop P and fluroxypyr by WSLLC SPOILER a premix incorporating dichloroprop P and mecoprop P by NA. I. TRIAMINE a premix incorporating dichloroprop P and mecoprop P by NA. I. TRIAMINE JET SPRAY a premix incorporating dichloroprop P and mecoprop P by NA. I. DASATOX a premix incorporating diuron and MSMA by ACCS.B. TILLER a premix incorporating fenoxaprop P ethyl and MCPA by BCS STARANE SALVO a premix incorporating fluroxypyr by DASLLC and LP. I. TRUMPCARD a premix incorporating fluroxypyr by HC. C. CHASER ULTRA2 a premix incorporating fluroxypyr and MCPA by LP. I. KAMEL FERT a premix incorporating gibberellic acid and 1 napthaleneacetic acid by VALPCO SPEED MIX a premix incorporating gibberellic acid and 1 napthaleneacetic acid by VALPCO CREDIT MASTER a premix incorporating glyphosate by NA. I. FAITER a premix incorporating glyphosate by II C.A. HAT TRICK a premix incorporating glyphosate by ACCS.B. LANDMASTER BW a premix incorporating glyphosate by A I. LANDMASTER II a premix incorporating glyphosate by MC. RECOIL a premix incorporating glyphosate by NA. I. ACTRIL DS a premix incorporating ioxynil by BCS CHIMAC MIXTE a premix incorporating MCPA by C AS.A. COMBI F675 a premix incorporating MCPA by PAP. L. FENOX a premix incorporating MCPA by D PQCS.A. GROTEX COMPLEX a premix incorporating MCPA by TRAGUSA HERBICIDA C PROBELTE a premix incorporating MCPA by PS.A. SELECTYL MD a premix incorporating MCPA by C AS.A. U 46 COMBI FLUID a premix incorporating MCPA by BASF C. CHIMAC COP SPECIAL a premix incorporating mecoprop by C AS.A. U46 KV COMBI FLUID a premix incorporating mecoprop by BASF C. DUPLOSAN KV COMBI a premix incorporating mecoprop P by BASF C. MATAMONTE a premix incorporating metsulfuron methyl by D PQPCS.A. ARENA a premix incorporating picloram by SAAG CAMPERO a premix incorporating picloram by IS.A. EXTERMINATOR a premix incorporating picloram by D PQCS.A. GRAZON P D a premix incorporating picloram by DASLLC GUNSLINGER IVM a premix incorporating picloram by A I. GUNSLINGER a premix incorporating picloram by A I. HIREDHAND P D a premix incorporating picloram by Dow Agro Sciences LLC PATHWAY a premix incorporating picloram by DASLLC POTRERON a premix incorporating picloram by II C.A. STOKE a premix incorporating picloram by DPQC S.A. TALION a premix incorporating picloram by SAAG TERMINATOR a premix incorporating picloram by D PQCS.A. TORDON 101 a premix incorporating picloram by DASLLC TROOPER P D a premix incorporating picloram by NA. I. TROTON a premix incorporating picloram by P TURUNA a premix incorporating picloram by SAAG RILOF H a premix incorporating piperophos by S VEGEMEC a premix incorporating prometon by PBI GC. ORIZO PLUS a premix incorporating propanil by RCLLC AQUASWEEP a premix incorporating triclopyr by NA. I. CANDOR a premix incorporating triclopyr by NA. I. CHASER a premix incorporating triclopyr by LP. I. CROSSBOW L a premix incorporating triclopyr by LP. I. FOREFRONT R P a co pack product incorporating aminopyralid by DASLLC GRAZONNEXT a co pack product incorporating aminopyralid by DASLLC PASTURALL a co pack product incorporating aminopyralid by DASLLC and RESTORE a co pack product incorporating aminopyralid by DASLLC .

In some embodiments the additive includes an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable adjuvants include but are not limited to antifreeze agents antifoam agents compatibilizing agents sequestering agents neutralizing agents and buffers corrosion inhibitors colorants odorants penetration aids wetting agents spreading agents dispersing agents thickening agents freeze point depressants antimicrobial agents crop oil safeners adhesives for instance for use in seed formulations surfactants protective colloids emulsifiers tackifiers and mixtures thereof. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable adjuvants include but are not limited to crop oil concentrate mineral oil 85 emulsifiers 15 nonylphenol ethoxylate benzylcocoalkyldimethyl quaternary ammonium salt blend of petroleum hydrocarbon alkyl esters organic acid and anionic surfactant C Calkylpolyglycoside phosphate alcohol ethoxylate natural primary alcohol C C ethoxylate di sec butylphenol EO PO block copolymer polysiloxane methyl cap nonylphenol ethoxylate urea ammonium nitrate emulsified methylated seed oil tridecyl alcohol synthetic ethoxylate 8 EO tallow amine ethoxylate 15 EO and PEG 400 dioleate 99.

In some embodiments the additive is a safener that is an organic compound leading to better crop plant compatibility when applied with a herbicide. In some embodiments the safener itself is herbicidally active. In some the safener acts as an antidote or antagonist in the crop plants and can reduce or prevent damage to the crop plants. Exemplary safeners include but are not limited to AD 67 MON 4660 benoxacor benthiocarb brassinolide cloquintocet mexyl cyometrinil cyprosulfamide daimuron dichlormid dicyclonon dietholate dimepiperate disulfoton fenchlorazole fenchlorazole ethyl fenclorim flurazole fluxofenim furilazole harpin proteins isoxadifen ethyl jiecaowan jiecaoxi mefenpyr mefenpyr diethyl mephenate naphthalic anhydride 2 2 5 trimethyl 3 dichloroacetyl 1 3 oxazolidine 4 dichloroacetyl 1 oxa 4 azaspiro 4.5 decane oxabetrinil R29148 and N phenyl sulfonylbenzoic acid amides as well as agriculturally acceptable salts and provided they have a carboxyl group their agriculturally acceptable derivatives thereof. In some embodiments the safener can be cloquintocet or an ester or salt thereof such as cloquintocet mexyl . For example cloquintocet can be used to antagonize harmful effects of the compositions on rice and cereals.

Exemplary surfactants e.g. wetting agents tackifiers dispersants emulsifiers include but are not limited to the alkali metal salts alkaline earth metal salts and ammonium salts of aromatic sulfonic acids for example lignosulfonic acids phenolsulfonic acids naphthalenesulfonic acids and dibutylnaphthalenesulfonic acid and of fatty acids alkyl and alkylarylsulfonates alkyl sulfates lauryl ether sulfates and fatty alcohol sulfates and salts of sulfated hexa hepta and octadecanols and also of fatty alcohol glycol ethers condensates of sulfonated naphthalene and its derivatives with formaldehyde condensates of naphthalene or of the naphthalene sulfonic acids with phenol and formaldehyde polyoxyethylene octylphenol ether ethoxylated isooctyl octyl or nonylphenol alkylphenyl or tributylphenyl polyglycol ether alkyl aryl polyether alcohols isotridecyl alcohol fatty alcohol ethylene oxide condensates ethoxylated castor oil polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers or polyoxypropylene alkyl ethers lauryl alcohol polyglycol ether acetate sorbitol esters lignosulfite waste liquors and proteins denatured proteins polysaccharides e.g. methylcellulose hydrophobically modified starches polyvinyl alcohol polycarboxylates polyalkoxylates polyvinyl amine polyethyleneimine polyvinylpyrrolidone and copolymers thereof.

Exemplary thickeners include but are not limited to polysaccharides such as xanthan gum and organic and inorganic sheet minerals and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary antifoam agents include but are not limited to silicone emulsions long chain alcohols fatty acids salts of fatty acids organofluorine compounds and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary antimicrobial agents include but are not limited to bactericides based on dichlorophen and benzyl alcohol hemiformal and isothiazolinone derivatives such as alkylisothiazolinones and benzisothiazolinones and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary antifreeze agents include but are not limited to ethylene glycol propylene glycol urea glycerol and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary colorants include but are not limited to the dyes known under the names Rhodamine B pigment blue 15 4 pigment blue 15 3 pigment blue 15 2 pigment blue 15 1 pigment blue 80 pigment yellow 1 pigment yellow 13 pigment red 112 pigment red 48 2 pigment red 48 1 pigment red 57 1 pigment red 53 1 pigment orange 43 pigment orange 34 pigment orange 5 pigment green 36 pigment green 7 pigment white 6 pigment brown 25 basic violet 10 basic violet 49 acid red 51 acid red 52 acid red 14 acid blue 9 acid yellow 23 basic red 10 basic red 108 and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary adhesives include but are not limited to polyvinylpyrrolidone polyvinyl acetate polyvinyl alcohol tylose and mixtures thereof.

In some embodiments the additive includes a carrier. In some embodiments the additive includes a liquid or solid carrier. In some embodiments the additive includes an organic or inorganic carrier. Exemplary liquid carriers include but are not limited to petroleum fractions or hydrocarbons such as mineral oil aromatic solvents paraffinic oils and the like vegetable oils such as soybean oil rapeseed oil olive oil castor oil sunflower seed oil coconut oil corn oil cottonseed oil linseed oil palm oil peanut oil safflower oil sesame oil tung oil and the like esters of the above vegetable oils esters of monoalcohols or dihydric trihydric or other lower polyalcohols 4 6 hydroxy containing such as 2 ethyl hexyl stearate n butyl oleate isopropyl myristate propylene glycol dioleate di octyl succinate di butyl adipate di octyl phthalate and the like esters of mono di and polycarboxylic acids and the like toluene xylene petroleum naphtha crop oil acetone methyl ethyl ketone cyclohexanone trichloroethylene perchloroethylene ethyl acetate amyl acetate butyl acetate propylene glycol monomethyl ether and diethylene glycol monomethyl ether methyl alcohol ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol amyl alcohol ethylene glycol propylene glycol glycerine N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone N N dimethyl alkylamides dimethyl sulfoxide liquid fertilizers and the like and water as well as mixtures thereof. Exemplary solid carriers include but are not limited to silicas silica gels silicates talc kaolin limestone lime chalk bole loess clay dolomite diatomaceous earth calcium sulfate magnesium sulfate magnesium oxide ground synthetic materials pyrophyllite clay attapulgus clay kieselguhr calcium carbonate bentonite clay Fuller s earth cottonseed hulls wheat flour soybean flour pumice wood flour walnut shell flour lignin ammonium sulfate ammonium phosphate ammonium nitrate ureas cereal meal tree bark meal wood meal and nutshell meal cellulose powders and mixtures thereof.

In some embodiments emulsions pastes or oil dispersions can be prepared by homogenizing a and b in water by means of wetting agent tackifier dispersant or emulsifier. In some embodiments concentrates suitable for dilution with water are prepared comprising a b a wetting agent a tackifier and a dispersant or emulsifier.

In some embodiments powders or materials for spreading and dusts can be prepared by mixing or concomitant grinding of a and b and optionally a safener with a solid carrier.

In some embodiments granules e.g. coated granules impregnated granules and homogeneous granules can be prepared by binding the a and b to solid carriers.

The formulations disclosed herein can comprise a synergistic herbicidally effective amount of a and b . In some embodiments the concentrations of a and b in the formulations can be varied. In some embodiments the formulations comprise from 1 to 95 e.g. from 5 to 95 from 10 to 80 from 20 to 70 from 30 to 50 by total weight of a and b . In some embodiments a and b independently can be employed in a purity of from 90 to 100 e.g. from 95 to 100 according to NMR spectrometry. In some embodiments the concentrations of a b and additional pesticides in the formulations can be varied. In some embodiments the formulations comprise from 1 to 95 e.g. from 5 to 95 from 10 to 80 from 20 to 70 from 30 to 50 by total weight of a b and additional pesticides. In some embodiments a b and additional pesticides independently can be employed in a purity of from 90 to 100 e.g. from 95 to 100 according to NMR spectrometry.

The compositions disclosed herein can be applied in any known technique for applying herbicides. Exemplary application techniques include but are not limited to spraying atomizing dusting spreading or direct application into water in water . The method of application can vary depending on the intended purpose. In some embodiments the method of application can be chosen to ensure the finest possible distribution of the compositions disclosed herein.

The compositions disclosed herein can be applied pre emergence before the emergence of undesirable vegetation or post emergence i.e. during and or after emergence of the undesirable vegetation . In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein are applied post emergence when the undesirable vegetation starts with leaf development up to flowering. In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein are applied post emergence to relatively immature undesirable vegetation to achieve the maximum control of weeds. In some embodiments when the compositions are used in crops the compositions can be applied after seeding and before or after the emergence of the crop plants. In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein show good crop tolerance even when the crop has already emerged and can be applied during or after the emergence of the crop plants. In some embodiments when the compositions are used in crops the compositions can be applied before seeding of the crop plants.

In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein are applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applying to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation by spraying e.g. foliar spraying . In some embodiments the spraying techniques use for example water as carrier and spray liquor rates of from 10 liters per hectare L ha to 2000 L ha e.g. from 50 L ha to 1000 L ha or from 100 to 500 L ha . In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein are applied by the low volume or the ultra low volume method wherein the application is in the form of micro granules. In some embodiments wherein the compositions disclosed herein are less well tolerated by certain crop plants the compositions can be applied with the aid of the spray apparatus in such a way that they come into little contact if any with the leaves of the sensitive crop plants while reaching the leaves of undesirable vegetation that grows underneath or the bare soil e.g. post directed or lay by .

In some embodiments wherein the undesirable vegetation is treated post emergence the compositions disclosed herein are applied by foliar application. In some embodiments herbicidal activity is exhibited by the compounds of the synergistic mixture when they are applied directly to the plant or to the locus of the plant at any stage of growth or before planting or emergence. The effect observed can depend upon the type of undesirable vegetation to be controlled the stage of growth of the undesirable vegetation the application parameters of dilution and spray drop size the particle size of solid components the environmental conditions at the time of use the specific compound employed the specific adjuvants and carriers employed the soil type and the like as well as the amount of chemical applied. In some embodiments these and other factors can be adjusted to promote non selective or selective herbicidal action.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to control undesired vegetation in a variety of crop and non crop applications. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used for controlling undesired vegetation in crops. Exemplary crops include but are not limited to sugar beets cereals such as wheat and wheat like crops rye triticale and barley corn or maize oats sorghum rice and sugar cane and oilseed crops such as canola or oilseed rape and sunflower fodder brassicas. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used for controlling undesired vegetation in non crop areas. Exemplary non crop areas include but are not limited to turf pasture fallow wildlife management areas or rangeland. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in industrial vegetation management IVM or for utility pipeline roadside and railroad rights of way applications. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can also be used in forestry e.g. for site preparation or for combating undesirable vegetation in plantation forests . In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to control undesirable vegetation in conservation reserve program lands CRP aquatics trees vines grasslands and grasses grown for seeds. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used on lawns e.g. residential industrial and institutional golf courses parks cemeteries athletic fields and sod farms.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can also be used in crop plants that are resistant to for instance herbicides pathogens and or insects. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in crop plants that are resistant to one or more herbicides because of genetic engineering or breeding. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in crop plants that are resistant to one or more pathogens such as plant pathogenous fungi owing to genetic engineering or breeding. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in crop plants that are resistant to attack by insects owing to genetic engineering or breeding. Exemplary resistant crops include but are not limited to corn or maize sorghum wheat sunflower rice canola or oilseed rape soybeans cotton alfalfa clover rye barley triticale and sugarcane that are resistant to synthetic auxins or crop plants that owing to introduction of the gene for or Bt toxin by genetic modification are resistant to attack by certain insects. In some embodiments the compositions and methods described herein also can be used in conjunction with glyphosate glufosinate dicamba phenoxy auxins pyridyloxy auxins aryloxyphenoxypropionates acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors imidazolinones acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors triazines and bromoxynil to control vegetation in crops tolerant to glyphosate glufosinate dicamba phenoxy auxins pyridyloxy auxins aryloxyphenoxypropionates acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors imidazolinones acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors triazines bromoxynil or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the undesirable vegetation is controlled in glyphosate glufosinate dicamba phenoxy auxins pyridyloxy auxins aryloxyphenoxypropionates acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors imidazolinones acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors triazines and bromoxynil tolerant crops possessing multiple or stacked traits conferring tolerance to multiple chemistries and or multiple modes of action. In some embodiments the undesired vegetation is controlled in phenoxy auxin tolerant crops and the phenoxy auxin tolerant crops have tolerance conferred by an AAD12 gene. The combination of a b and a complementary herbicide or salt or ester thereof can be used in combination with herbicides that are selective for the crop being treated and which complement the spectrum of weeds controlled by these compounds at the application rate employed.

The herbicidal compositions prepared disclosed herein are effective against a variety of types of undesirable vegetation. In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein can be used for controlling undesirable vegetation such as broadleaf weeds woody plants or semi woody plants. Exemplary undesirable vegetation includes but is not limited to species such as wild buckwheat species such as pigweed species such as common lambsquarters L. species such as prickly L. species such as common ragweed species species species species species species such as horseweed species species species species species species species morning glory species species species species species species species species species species species common chickweed velvetleaf Hemp Cory spurred common blackjack wild mustard shepherd s purse cornflower common hempnettle cleavers common sunflower tall tick clover Kochia spotted medick annual mercury field forget me not common poppy jointed charlock prickly saltwort wild mustard field sowthistle field pennycress tall khakiweed Brazil callalily rat s tail plantain and narrow leaved plantain . In some embodiments the undesirable vegetation includes java bean bracken or

By way of non limiting illustration examples of certain embodiments of the present disclosure are given below.

Field trials were conducted with applications made to established grassland with naturally occurring weed populations. The target plants were treated with postemergence foliar applications when they were at the beginning of flowering stage and 50 centimeters cm 19.7 inches in tall for plants and at the flowering stage and 70 90 cm 27.6 35.4 in for plants. All treatments were applied using a randomized complete block trial design with 4 replications per treatment.

Treatments consisted of aminocyclopyrachlor in acid form and the dimethylamine salt of 2 4 D each in water and applied alone or in combination. Spray solutions were prepared using an appropriate amount of dilution to form a 2.4 liter L aqueous spray solution with active ingredients in single and two way combinations. Formulated compounds were applied to the plant material with a backpack sprayer equipped with 8003 nozzles calibrated to deliver 42.8 gallons per acre gal acre 400 liters per hectare L ha at a spray height of 18 20 inches 45 51 centimeters cm above average plant canopy.

The treated plants were CASOB java bean or MEOPA . The treated plots and control plots were rated blind at various intervals after application. Ratings were based on a scale of 0 100 as discussed above wherein 0 indicates no damage to the undesired vegetation and 100 indicates complete destruction of the undesired vegetation

Colby s equation was used to determine the herbicidal effects expected from the mixtures as described above. The results were measured at 42 days or 58 62 days after the first application of the compositions. The trials exhibited unexpected synergy and those results were found statistically significant under the p value test. The herbicide tank mix combinations tested application rates and ratios employed plant species tested and results are given below.

As shown above the samples demonstrated synergistic weed control with higher measured weed control than would be predicted by the Colby equation.

The compositions and methods of the appended claims are not limited in scope by the specific compositions and methods described herein which are intended as illustrations of a few aspects of the claims and any compositions and methods that are functionally equivalent are intended to fall within the scope of the claims. Various modifications of the compositions and methods in addition to those shown and described herein are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Further while only certain representative compositions and method steps disclosed herein are specifically described other combinations of the compositions and method steps also are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims even if not specifically recited. Thus a combination of steps elements components or constituents may be explicitly mentioned herein however other combinations of steps elements components and constituents are included even though not explicitly stated. The term comprising and variations thereof as used herein is used synonymously with the term including and variations thereof and are open non limiting terms. Although the terms comprising and including have been used herein to describe various embodiments the terms consisting essentially of and consisting of can be used in place of comprising and including to provide for more specific embodiments of the invention and are also disclosed. Other than in the examples or where otherwise noted all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood at the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims to be construed in light of the number of significant digits and ordinary rounding approaches.

