---

title: Techniques for collaborative power management for heterogeneous networks
abstract: Techniques for collaborative power management for heterogeneous networks are described. An apparatus may include a first node having a managed power system and a power management module to manage power states for the managed power system. The power management module may be operative to communicate power state information with a second node over a communications connection, and manage the power states for the managed power system based on power state information for the second node. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE045600&OS=RE045600&RS=RE045600
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: RE045600
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130508
---
This application is a non provisional of and claims priority to U.S. Patent Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 973 044 titled TECHNIQUES FOR COLLABORATIVE POWER MANAGEMENT FOR HETEROGENEOUS NETWORKS filed on Sep. 17 2007 and is related to U.S. Patent Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 973 031 titled BUFFERING TECHNIQUES FOR POWER MANAGEMENT filed on Sep. 17 2007 U.S. Patent Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 973 035 titled TECHNIQUES FOR COMMUNICATIONS BASED POWER MANAGEMENT filed on Sep. 17 2007 and U.S. Patent Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 973 038 titled TECHNIQUES FOR COMMUNICATIONS POWER MANAGEMENT BASED ON SYSTEM STATES filed on Sep. 17 2007 all three of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Power management for electronic devices such as computer systems play an important part in conserving energy managing heat dissipation and improving overall system performance. Modern computers systems are increasingly designed to be used in settings where a reliable external power supply is not available making power management to conserve energy important. Power management techniques allow certain components of a computer system to be powered down or put in a sleep mode that requires less power than while in active operation thereby reducing the total amount of energy consumed by a device over some period of time. Energy conservation is especially important for mobile devices to conserve battery power. Even when reliable external power supplies are available careful power management within the computing system can reduce heat produced by the system enabling improved performance of the system. Computing systems generally have better performance at lower ambient temperatures because key components can run at higher speeds without damaging their circuitry. Consequently there are many advantages to enhancing power management for electronic devices.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to techniques for performing collaborative power management for heterogeneous networks. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to power management techniques to manage power states for multiple nodes based on power state information communicated between the various nodes. In one embodiment for example the power state information may be communicated between nodes utilizing a power management packet data unit PMPDU for a network link power management NLPM protocol. Examples for a node may include various types of heterogeneous network endpoint and infrastructure devices or resources such as computers servers switches routers bridges gateways and so forth. The power state information may indicate for example whether a given node or a portion of a given node is operating in a power managed state or a full computation state the duration for a power managed state a resume latency to exit from a power managed state and other power related characteristics for the given node. The power management techniques may be implemented for example by power gating and or clock gating various hardware elements of a node thereby conserving battery power.

In one embodiment a first node may include a managed power system and a power management module to manage power states for the managed power system. The managed power system may comprise for example any devices components modules circuits or other portions of the first node drawing power from a power source such as a battery. The power management module may be operative to communicate power state information with a second node over a communications connection utilizing the NLPM protocol. The power state information may include for example power states for the various managed power system of the second node as well as one or more parameters representing certain characteristics of the power states such as power state duration periods resume latencies and so forth. The power management module may manage various power states for the managed power system for the first node based on the power state information for the second node. In this manner a collection of different network devices may exchange negotiate and synchronize power state information to improve or enhance power state management for a particular network device or groups of network devices in order to facilitate energy conservation across a heterogeneous communications system. Other embodiments may be described and claimed.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

In various embodiments the communications system may comprise or form part of a wired communications system a wireless communications system or a combination of both. For example the communications system may include one or more nodes m arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wired communications links such as a wired communications link . Examples of the wired communications link may include without limitation a wire cable bus printed circuit board PCB Ethernet connection peer to peer P2P connection backplane switch fabric semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optic connection and so forth. The communications system also may include one or more nodes m arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wireless communications links such as wireless shared media . Examples of the wireless shared media may include without limitation a radio channel infrared channel radio frequency RF channel Wireless Fidelity WiFi channel a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free frequency bands. In the latter case the wireless nodes may include one more wireless interfaces and or components for wireless communications such as one or more radios transmitters receivers transceivers chipsets amplifiers filters control logic network interface cards NICs antennas antenna arrays and so forth. Examples of an antenna may include without limitation an internal antenna an omni directional antenna a monopole antenna a dipole antenna an end fed antenna a circularly polarized antenna a micro strip antenna a diversity antenna a dual antenna an antenna array and so forth. In one embodiment certain devices may include antenna arrays of multiple antennas to implement various adaptive antenna techniques and spatial diversity techniques.

As shown in the illustrated embodiment of the communications system comprises multiple nodes m. The nodes m may comprise or be implemented as any type of fixed or mobile electronic device or resource including a network device network endpoint equipment network infrastructure equipment cellular radiotelephone network equipment a processing system a computer system a computer sub system a computer a workstation a terminal a server a personal computer PC a laptop computer an ultra laptop computer a portable computer a handheld computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a smart phone a router a switch a bridge a gateway a network appliance a microprocessor an integrated circuit a programmable logic device PLD a digital signal processor DSP a processor a circuit a logic gate a register a microprocessor an integrated circuit a semiconductor device a chip a transistor and so forth. In some embodiments some of the nodes m may represent heterogeneous network devices. In one embodiment for example the nodes m may comprise various mobile computer systems e.g. laptop computers handheld computers smart phones cellular telephones and so forth utilizing a mobile power source such as one or more batteries.

In various embodiments the nodes m may be arranged to communicate various types of information in multiple communications frames as represented by the power management packet data units PMPDU s via the network or communications links . In various embodiments the nodes m may be arranged to communicate control information related to power management operations. Examples of control information may include without limitation power information state information power state information power management commands command information control information routing information processing information system file information system library information software e.g. operating system software file system software application software game software firmware an application programming interface API a program an applet a subroutine an instruction set an instruction computing code logic words values symbols and so forth. The nodes m may also be arranged to communicate media information to include without limitation various types of image information audio information video information AV information and or other data provided from various media sources.

Although some of the nodes m may comprise different network devices each of the nodes m may include a common number of elements as shown by the node . For example the nodes m may each include various power management elements to implement a power management scheme operative to perform power management operations for the nodes m. In the illustrated embodiment shown in for example a first node may include a managed power system coupled to a power management module . The power management module may be operative to communicate power state information with a second node e.g. one of the nodes m over a communications connection established via the communications links . In general operation the power management module may manage various power states for the managed power system of the first node based on the power state information for the second node and vice versa. The power state information for the second node may include past present or future power states for one or more portions of a managed power system of the second node . In this manner the nodes may exchange power state information to improve or enhance power state management for the first node the second node or both nodes thereby facilitating energy conservation across the heterogeneous communications system . For example the power management modules may synchronize power management operations particularly with respect to the communications components of the respective managed power systems such as placing communications components of both nodes in lower power states at the same or similar times and for the same or similar power state duration periods.

Although the node is the only node shown in to include the managed power system and the power management module it may be appreciated that each of the nodes m may include an identical or similar managed power system n and power management module p. For example the node may include a managed power system coupled to a power management module the node may include the elements and so forth. Furthermore the descriptions and examples of the structures and operations provided with reference to the managed power system and the power management module may also apply to the corresponding elements in the other nodes m. Exemplary embodiments for the managed power system n and the power management module p may be described in more detail with reference to .

In various embodiments the managed power system may include any electrical or electronic elements of the nodes m consuming power from the power source and suitable for power management operations. Power management techniques allow certain components of an electronic device or system e.g. a computer system to be powered down or put in a sleep mode that requires less power than while in active operation thereby reducing the total amount of energy consumed by a device over some period of time. The power management techniques may be implemented by power gating and or clock gating various hardware elements of the managed power system thereby conserving battery power.

More particularly the managed power system may include various electrical or electronic elements of the nodes m that can operate in various power states drawing multiple levels of power from the power source as controlled by the power management controller of the power management module . The various power states may be defined by any number of power management schemes. In some cases for example the power states may be defined in accordance with the Advanced Configuration and Power Interface ACPI series of specifications including their progeny revisions and variants. In one embodiment for example the power states may be defined by the ACPI Revision 3.0a Dec. 30 2005 the ACPI Revision 3.0a Specification . The ACPI series of specifications define multiple power states for electronic devices such as global system states Gx states device power states Dx states sleeping states Sx states processor power states Cx states device and processor performance states Px states and so forth. It may be appreciated that other power states of varying power levels may be implemented as desired for a given set of design parameters and performance constraints. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In some embodiments the various electrical or electronic elements of the nodes m suitable for power management operations may be generally grouped or organized into the communications sub system and the computing sub system . It may be appreciated however that the sub systems are provided by way of example for purposes of clarity and not limitation and the managed power system may include other electrical or electronic elements of the nodes m suitable for power management operations by the power management module . For example the nodes m may typically include a computer monitor or display such as a digital electronic display or an analog electronic display. Examples of digital electronic displays may include electronic paper nixie tube displays vacuum fluorescent displays light emitting diode displays electroluminescent displays plasma display panels liquid crystal displays thin film transistor displays organic light emitting diode displays surface conduction electron emitter displays laser television displays carbon nanotubes nanocrystal displays and so forth. An example for analog electronic displays may include cathode ray tube displays. Computer monitors are often placed in a sleep mode when an operating system detects that the computer system has not received any input from a user for a defined period of time. Other system components may include digital cameras touch screens video recorders audio recorders storage devices vibrating elements oscillators system clocks controllers and other platform or system architecture equipment. These other system components can also be placed in a sleep or powered down state in order to conserve energy when the components are not in use. The computer system monitors input devices and wakes devices as needed. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the managed power system may include the communications sub system . The communications sub system may comprise various communications elements arranged to communicate information and perform communications operations between the nodes m. Examples of suitable communications elements may include any electrical or electronic element designed to communicate information over the communications links including without limitation radios transmitters receivers transceivers chipsets amplifiers filters control logic interfaces network interfaces network interface cards NICs antennas antenna arrays digital signal processors baseband processors media access controllers memory units and so forth.

In various embodiments the communications sub system may include one or more transceivers capable of operating at different communications rates. The transceivers may comprise any communications elements capable of transmitting and receiving information over the various wired media types e.g. copper single mode fiber multi mode fiber etc. and wireless media types e.g. RF spectrum for communications link . Examples of the transceivers may include various Ethernet based PHY devices such as a Fast Ethernet PHY device e.g. 100Base T 100Base TX 100Base T4 100Base T2 100Base FX 100Base SX 100BaseBX and so forth a Gigabit Ethernet GbE PHY device e.g. 1000Base T 1000Base SX 1000Base LX 1000Base BX10 1000Base CX 1000Base ZX and so forth a 10 GbE PHY device e.g. 10GBase SR 10GBase LRM 10GBase LR 10GBase ER 10GBase ZR 10GBase LX4 10GBase CX4 10GBase Kx 10GBase T and so forth a 100 GbE PHY device and so forth. The transceivers may also comprise various radios or wireless PHY devices such as for mobile broadband communications systems. Examples of mobile broadband communications systems include without limitation systems compliant with various Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standards such as the IEEE 802.11 standards for Wireless Local Area Networks WLANs and variants the IEEE 802.16 standards for Wireless Metropolitan Area Networks WMANs and variants and the IEEE 802.20 or Mobile Broadband Wireless Access MBWA standards and variants among others. The transceivers may also be implemented as various other types of mobile broadband communications systems and standards such as a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system series of standards and variants a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 2000 system series of standards and variants e.g. CDMA2000 1 RTT CDMA 2000 EV DO CDMA EV DV and so forth a High Performance Radio Metropolitan Area Network HIPERMAN system series of standards as created by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI Broadband Radio Access Networks BRAN and variants a Wireless Broadband WiBro system series of standards and variants a Global System for Mobile communications GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS system GSM GPRS series of standards and variants an Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE system series of standards and variants a High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA system series of standards and variants a High Speed Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Packet Access HSOPA system series of standards and variants a High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA system series of standards and variants and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context. The communications sub system may further include various controllers control policy modules buffers queues timers and other communications elements typically implemented for a communications system or sub system.

In various embodiments the managed power system may include the computing sub system . The computing sub system may comprise various computing elements arranged to process information and perform computing operations for the nodes m. Examples of suitable computing elements may include any electrical or electronic element designed to process information including without limitation processors microprocessors chipsets controllers microcontrollers embedded controllers clocks oscillators audio cards video cards multimedia cards peripherals memory units memory controllers video controllers audio controllers multimedia controllers and so forth.

In various embodiments the power management module may comprise a power source . The power source may be arranged to provide power to the elements of a node m in general and the managed power system in particular. In one embodiment for example the power source may be operative to provide varying levels of power to the communications sub system and the computing sub system . In various embodiments the power source may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

In various embodiments the power management module may include a power management controller . The power management controller may generally control power consumption by the managed power system . In one embodiment the power management controller may be operative to control varying levels of power provided to the communications sub system and the computing sub system in accordance with certain defined power states. For example the power management controller may modify switch or transition the power levels provided by the power source to the sub systems to a higher or lower power level thereby effectively modifying a power state for the sub systems .

In various embodiments the power management module may include one or more power control timers . The power control timer may be used by the power management controller to maintain a certain power state for a given power state duration period. The power state duration period may represent a defined time interval a node or portion of a node is in a given power state. For example the power management controller may switch the computing sub system from a higher power state to a lower power state for a defined time interval and when the time interval has expired switch the computing sub system back to the higher power state.

In order to coordinate power management operations for a node m the communications sub system the computing sub system and the power management module may communicate various power management messages q via a communications bus and the respective power management interfaces and . To manage power for all the devices in a system an operating system typically utilizes standard techniques for communicating control information over a particular Input Output I O interconnect. Examples of various I O interconnects suitable for implementation as the communications bus and associated interfaces may include without limitation Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI PCI Express PCIe CardBus Universal Serial Bus USB IEEE 1394 FireWire and so forth.

Referring again to the communications sub system may include a network state module . The network state module may be arranged to monitor certain states or characteristics of the communications sub system such as the traffic activity of the communications connections v capabilities information and other operations for the various communications elements of the communications sub system . The network state module may send communications power management messages q to the power management module with the measured characteristics. The power management module may generate power state information for the managed power system based in part on the communications power management messages q.

Similarly the computing sub system may include a computing state module . The computing state module may be arranged to monitor certain states or characteristics of the computing sub system such as the level of system activity capabilities information and other operations for the various computing elements of the computing sub system . The computing state module may send computing power management messages q to the power management module with the measured characteristics. The power management module may generate power state information for the managed power system based in part on the computing power management messages q.

In general operation the power management module may perform power management operations for the managed power system of the first node based on power state information received from one or more other nodes m within the communications system . For example the power management module for a first node may be operative to communicate power state information with a second node over a communications connection v established via the communications links . The power management module may manage various power states for the managed power system for the first node based on the power state information for the second node . Examples suitable for implementation as the power state information may be further described with reference to .

The nodes m may communicate the power state information over the communications connections v established via the communications links in accordance with various communications protocols. In one embodiment for example the nodes m may communicate power state information utilizing a specific communications protocol referred to herein as the network link power management NLPM protocol. The NLPM protocol may comprise any connectionless or connection oriented protocol with fields specifically defined to carry power state information . The NLPM protocol may be implemented by modifying or using any suitable transports or protocols as defined by one or more protocol standards such as the standards promulgated by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF International Telecommunications Union ITU and so forth. In one embodiment for example the NLPM protocol may be implemented by modifying or using such protocols as defined by the IETF document titled Transmission Control Protocol Standard 7 Request For Comment RFC 793 September 1981 TCP Specification and its progeny revision and variants the IETF document titled Internet Protocol Standard 5 RFC 791 September 1981 IP Specification and its progeny revision and variants the IETF document titled User Datagram Protocol Standard 6 RFC 768 August 1980 UDP Specification and its progeny revision and variants and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communications services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n v series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The addressing information including the source address and the destination address may comprise any unique addressing information for the nodes m. Examples of unique addressing information may include network addresses in defined in accordance with the IETF IP Version Four IPv4 as defined by the IP Specification and the IETF IP Version Six IPv6 RFC 2460 December 1998 IPv6 Specification media access control MAC addresses device addresses globally unique identifiers GUI telephone numbers uniform resource locator URL uniform resource identifier URI and so forth.

The power state information may represent information explicitly or implicitly related to power states for the nodes m or portions of the nodes m such as the communications sub system and the computing sub system . As previously described the power management module may control various power states for the managed power system in accordance with one or more power management standards such as the ACPI standard. The ACPI standard may be suitable for defining the various power states for a portion of the managed power system such as the communications sub system and or the computing sub system . For example the power management module may control power consumption for a processor and chipset of the computing sub system using different processor power consumption states e.g. C0 C1 C2 and C3 as defined by the ACPI Revision 3.0a Specification. This information may be communicated by the PMPDU s as part of the computing power state information .

In one embodiment for example the power management module may control power consumption for the computing sub system using an abbreviated set of power states from the ACPI Revision 3.0a Specification referred to as system power states. The system power states define various power states specifically designed for the computing elements processing information for the nodes m. Examples for the various system power states may be shown in Table 1 as follows 

Some of the system power states have associated parameters. For example the S0i power state has a pair of parameters referred to as a computing idle duration parameter and a computing resume latency parameter. The computing idle duration parameter represents an amount of time or defined time interval the computing sub system will remain in a given power state e.g. S0i . The computing resume latency parameter represents an amount of time or defined time interval the computing sub system needs to exit a given power state e.g. S0i and enter a higher power state e.g. S0 . The computing idle duration parameter and the computing resume latency parameter for the system power states may be communicated by the PMPDU s as the respective computing idle duration parameter and the computing resume latency parameter .

In various embodiments the computing state module may be arranged to generate the computing idle duration parameter and the computing resume latency parameter based on the capabilities of the computing sub system . For example the computing sub system may include various processors operating at different speeds such as a host application or system processor. In another example the computing sub system may include various memory units operating at different read write speeds. In still another example computing sub system may include various I O devices such as a keyboard mouse display memory controllers video controllers audio controllers storage devices e.g. hard drives expansion cards co processors and so forth. The computing state module may evaluate these and other computing capabilities of the computing sub system and generate the appropriate computing idle duration parameter and the computing resume latency parameter based on the evaluated capabilities of the computing sub system .

Although in some embodiments the power states for the communications sub system and the computing sub system may be similarly defined and in synchronization in some embodiments the power state information may also be differently defined and not synchronized for the sub systems . For example the power management module may control power consumption for a radio or network interface of the communications sub system using different power states than defined for the computing sub system . In one embodiment for example the power management module may control power consumption for the communications sub system using a set of power states referred to as NLPM power states. The NLPM power states define various network link power states specifically designed for the communications elements of the communications sub system communicating information over the given communications links . Examples for the various NLPM power states may be shown in Table 2 as follows 

As with the system power states some of the NLPM power states have associated parameters. For example the NL1 Idle and NL2 Sleep power states each have an associated communications idle duration parameter and a communications resume latency parameter. The communications idle duration parameter represents an amount of time or defined time interval the network link or communications sub system will remain in a given power state e.g. NL1 NL . The communications idle duration parameter allows the sub systems to enter and exit the lower power states with a deterministic manner. The communications resume latency parameter represents an amount of time or defined time interval the network link or communications sub system needs to exit a given power state e.g. NL1 NL2 and enter a higher power state e.g. NL0 . The communications resume latency parameter allows the sub systems to determine how soon it can expect the communications sub system to wake up and be ready for providing services such as out going transmission. The communications idle duration parameter and the communications resume latency parameter for the NLPM power states may be communicated by the PMPDU s as the respective communications idle duration parameter and the communications resume latency parameter .

In various embodiments the network state module may be arranged to generate the communications idle duration parameter and the communications resume latency parameter based on the capabilities of the communications sub system . For example the communications sub system may implement various buffers to store information received from the communications connections v such as network packets and forward the information for servicing and processing by the computing sub system . In another example the communications sub system may also implement various buffers to store information received from the communications bus such as network packets and forward the information for communications by the communications sub system to other nodes m over the communications connections v via the communications links . In yet another example the communications sub system may include various wired or wireless transceiver operating at different communications speeds such as the IEEE 802.3 2005 standard 10 Gigabit Ethernet 10 GbE or 10 GigE the IEEE 802.3 ba proposed standard 100 Gigabit Ethernet 100 GbE or 100 GigE and so forth. In still another example the communications sub system may include various processors operating at different speeds such as baseband or communications processor. In still another example the network state module may monitor the rate of information being received over the communications connections v via the communications links . In this example the network state module of the communications sub system may monitor the communications links to measure packet inter arrival times. Other examples of communications capabilities may include other network traffic load measurements on the communications links e.g. synchronous traffic asynchronous traffic burst traffic and so forth a signal to noise ratio SNR a received signal strength indicator RSSI throughput of the communications bus physical layer PHY speed power state information for other nodes m received via one or more PMPDU s and so forth. The network state module may evaluate these and other network or communications capabilities of the communications sub system and generate the appropriate communications idle duration parameter and the communications resume latency parameter based on the evaluated capabilities of the communications sub system .

In various embodiments the nodes m may use the system power states and or the NLPM power states to enhance power management operations for a given node m or group of nodes m to improve energy conservation e.g. increase battery life or decrease battery size heat dissipation or overall system performance. In one embodiment the power management module of the first node may modify a power level for the managed power system from a first power level to a second power level using the power state information for the second node . Furthermore the power management module may modify the power level for the managed power system from a first power level to a second power level for a defined time interval determined using the power state information for the second node.

By way of example assume the second node sends a PMPDU s to the first node with power state information for the managed power system of the second node as follows 

The first node may receive the PMPDU s over a communications connection v via the communications sub system . The network state module of the communications sub system may forward the power state information via one or more power management messages q over the communications bus to the power management controller of the power management module . The communications sub system and the power management controller may communicate the power management messages q over the communications bus using the respective interfaces . The power management controller may receive the power management messages q and retrieve the received parameters e.g. NL1 100 ms 1 ms from the power state information . Since the communications sub system does not expect to receive any packets from the second node for at least 100 ms the power management controller may send one or more power management messages q to the communications sub system to modify a power level for the communications sub system from a first power level NL0 On to a second power level NL1 Idle for a power state duration period of approximately 100 ms or less as determined using the power state information received from the second node . The power state duration period of 100 ms may be measured or timed by the power control timer .

It may be appreciated that the power management controller of the first node may also include other factors other than the received communications idle duration parameter when determining a power state duration period for the communications sub system . For example the power management controller may determine a power state duration period using the communications resume latency parameter of 10 ms for the communications sub system of the second node . In this case the power control timer for the communications sub system may be set for an idle mode of 100 ms 1 ms 101 ms power state duration period. In another example the power management controller may set the power control timer for the communications sub system with a power state duration period that accounts for the communications resume latency parameter for the communications sub system . Assume this parameter represents 2 ms the power control timer for the communications sub system may be set for a power state duration period of 100 ms 1 ms resume latency for sub system 2 ms resume latency for sub system 99 ms.

The power management controller may also determine an appropriate power state duration period for the communications sub system using various measured characteristics of the communications links . The network state module may be arranged to monitor the communications links to measure certain channel link or traffic characteristics such as one way or two way latency associated with communicating packets over the communications connection v. For example the network state module of the communications sub system may monitor the communications links to measure packet inter arrival times and update the power management controller with a mean or median packet inter arrival time. The power management controller may increase or decrease the power state duration period to account for network link latencies using the measured packet inter arrival time. Other modifiers for the power state duration period may include other network traffic load measurements on the communications links e.g. synchronous traffic asynchronous traffic burst traffic and so forth a signal to noise ratio SNR a received signal strength indicator RSSI throughput of the communications bus physical layer PHY speed power state duration periods for other portions of the node and so forth.

In addition to modifying a power state for the communications sub system based on the power state information from the second node the power management controller may also modify a power state for the computing sub system . Since the communications sub system will not expect to receive any packets from the second node for at least 100 ms and therefore the computing sub system does not need to process any packets events or interrupts from the communications sub system for at least 100 ms the power management controller may also send one or more power management messages q to the computing sub system to modify a power level for the computing sub system from a first power level S0 On to a second power level S0i Idle for a power state duration period of approximately 90 ms so it can save system power yet be able to wake up soon enough to service any incoming traffic or events received from the communications sub system . Similarly the power management controller of the second node may place the computing sub system to the S0i Idle power state for a defined time interval of approximately 90 ms as well to perform energy conservation for the second node .

In one embodiment the power management module may send power state information for the managed power system of the first node to the second node in order to negotiate a power state for the managed power system of the first node and vice versa. For example prior to modifying power states for the nodes the nodes may exchange capabilities information estimated traffic loads power management schedules and other power management related information. The power management modules of the respective nodes may use the capabilities information and estimated traffic loads to negotiate an appropriate NLPM power state system power state power state duration period and associated parameters e.g. idle duration resume latency suitable for a communications session between the nodes using the communications connections v via the communications links . In this manner the nodes may synchronize communications based on traffic load and power states to enhance energy conservation by one or both of the nodes .

Although various embodiments describe sharing power state information between adjacent nodes it may be appreciated that any combination of nodes m of the communications system may share power state information to enhance energy conservation. For example the nodes may share power state information to perform power management operations similar to those described for the nodes . In some cases the power state information may take multiple hops prior to arriving at an intended destination node. For example the nodes may share the power state information as propagated through an intermediate node such as the second node . In other cases the nodes and may all shared power state information and provide certain offsets to the appropriate idle duration parameters and the resume latency parameters to account for any propagation latency and traffic considerations.

In some embodiments the managed power system may use the power state information received from the second node to enhance other performance characteristics of the managed power system . For example if the power state information includes a communications power state parameter indicating that the communications sub system of the second node will be entering an NL3 Off power state the communications sub system may use this information to switch to a different communications connection v or communications link .

The logic flow may illustrate various operations for the nodes m in general and the managed power system and the power management module in particular. As shown in the logic flow may communicate power state information between a first node and a second node over a communications connection at block . The logic flow may determine a power state and a power state duration period based on the power state information for the second node at block . The logic flow may switch a managed power system of the first node to the determined power state for the power state duration period at block . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment the logic flow may communicate power state information between a first node and a second node over a communications connection at block . For example the first node may send power state information to the second node over a communications connection v and vice versa. In another example the first node may receive power state information from the second node over a communications connection v and vice versa. The power state information may include a power state an idle duration parameter and a resume latency parameter for portions of the managed power system of the second node such as the communications sub system and or the computing sub system of the managed power system .

In one embodiment the logic flow may determine a power state and a power state duration period based on the power state information for the second node at block . As previously described the power state duration period may represent a time period or time interval when the managed power system is in a given power state. For example the power management controller of the first node may determine the power state duration period by evaluating among other factors the received communications idle duration parameter and the received resume latency parameter for the second node . In another example the power management controller of the first node may also determine the power state duration period by evaluating the communications resume latency parameter for the communications sub system . In yet another example the power management controller may of the first node may determine the power state duration period by evaluating various measured characteristics of the communications links . In this case the network state module may be arranged to monitor the communications links to measure certain channel link or traffic characteristics such as one way or two way latency associated with communicating packets over the communications connection v. For example the network state module of the communications sub system may monitor the communications links to measure packet inter arrival times and update the power management controller with a mean or median packet inter arrival time. The power management controller may increase or decrease the power state duration period to account for network link latencies using the measured packet inter arrival time. Other factors for determining the power state duration period may include other network traffic load measurements on the communications links e.g. synchronous traffic asynchronous traffic burst traffic and so forth a signal to noise ratio SNR a received signal strength indicator RSSI throughput of the communications bus physical layer PHY speed power state duration periods for other portions of the node and so forth.

In one embodiment the logic flow may switch a managed power system of the first node to the determined power state for the power state duration period at block . For example the first node may modify a power state for the managed power system based on power state information received from the second node . The power management module may switch the communications sub system and or the computing sub system between various power states for various durations based on power state parameters idle duration parameters and resume latency parameters for the respective sub systems of the second node . For example the power management module may switch the communications sub system for the managed power system from an active power state NL0 to an idle power state NL1 for the power state duration period. In another example the power management module may switch the computing sub system for the managed power system from an active power state S0 to an idle power state S0i for the power state duration period.

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a computer readable medium or a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of computer readable media or storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Examples of what could be claimed include the following 

