---

title: Adaptive UL-DL TDD configurations in a heterogeneous network
abstract: Technology for adapting uplink-downlink (UL-DL) time-division duplexing (TDD) subframe configurations in a heterogeneous network (HetNet) is disclosed. One method can include a reference enhanced Node B (eNB) determining a preferred adaptive UL-DL configuration. The eNB can receive node configuration information for at least one neighboring node. The eNB can reconfigure an adaptive UL-DL configuration for at least one of the reference eNB and the at least one neighboring node based on the node configuration information and sounding reference signal (SRS) subframe scheduling of the reference eNB and the at least one neighboring eNB.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09119097&OS=09119097&RS=09119097
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09119097
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130104
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 624 185 filed Apr. 13 2012.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

The macro node can be used for basic coverage. The low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes in a HetNet.

Homogeneous networks or HetNets can use time division duplexing TDD or frequency division duplexing FDD for DL or UL transmissions. Time division duplexing TDD is an application of time division multiplexing TDM to separate downlink and uplink signals. In TDD downlink signals and uplink signals may be carried on a same carrier frequency where the downlink signals use a different time interval from the uplink signals so the downlink signals and the uplink signals do not generate interference for each other. TDM is a type of digital multiplexing in which two or more bit streams or signals such as a downlink or uplink are transferred apparently simultaneously as sub channels in one communication channel but are physically transmitted on different resources. In frequency division duplexing FDD an uplink transmission and a downlink transmission can operate using different frequency carriers. In FDD interference can be avoided because the downlink signals use a different frequency carrier from the uplink signals.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Heterogeneous network HetNet deployments can offer efficient means to increase cellular coverage and capacity compared to traditional homogeneous networks and may involve the co existence of different radio access technologies RAT transmission reception techniques and base station BS or node transmission powers amongst other possible architectural combinations. The RAT can include the standard used such as LTE or IEEE 802.16 or the version of the standard such as LTE version 11 3GPP LTE V11.0.0 IEEE 802.16n or IEEE 802.16p. In an example the radio access technology RAT standard can include LTE release 8 9 10 11 or subsequent release. The transmission reception technique can include various transmission techniques such as a downlink DL coordinated multi point CoMP transmission enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC and combinations thereof. A node transmission power can refer to the power generated by a node type such as a macro node e.g. macro evolved Node B eNB in a macro cell and multiple low power nodes LPNs or small eNBs in the respective small cells as illustrated in . illustrates a layered HetNet deployment with different node transmission powers using time division duplexing TDD . As used herein a cell can refer to the node or the coverage area of the node. A low power node LPN can refer to a small node which can include a small eNB a micro eNB a pico node a pico eNB a femto eNB a home eNB HeNB a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE or a remote radio unit RRU . As used herein the term small node may be used interchangeably with the term pico node or pico eNB and the term small cell may be used interchangeably with the term pico cell in the examples to assist in distinguishing between the macro node and the LPN or the small node and the macro cell and the small cell. The macro node can be connected to each LPN via backhaul link using X2 interface or optical fiber connections.

The macro nodes can transmit at high power level for example approximately 5 watts W to 40 W to cover the macro cell. The HetNet can be overlaid with low power nodes LPNs which may transmit at substantially lower power levels such as approximately 100 milliwatts mW to 2 W. In an example an available transmission power of the macro node may be at least ten times an available transmission power of the low power node. A LPN can be used in hot spots or hot zones referring to areas with a high wireless traffic load or high volume of actively transmitting wireless devices e.g. user equipments UEs . A LPN can be used in a microcell a picocell a femtocell and or home network. Femto Cell0 illustrates downlink traffic heavy usage by the wireless devices e.g. UEs and Femto Cell1 illustrates uplink traffic heavy usage by the wireless devices. In a FDD example the macro cell can use frequency bands F for DL and F for UL and femtocells can use frequency bands F for DL and F for UL. In a TDD example frequency bands F F can be used for DL and UL by the macro cell and frequency bands F F can be used for DL and UL by the femtocells.

The methods processes and system described herein can be applicable to various HetNet configurations including layered HetNets with different node transmission powers. In systems employing frequency division duplex FDD techniques like enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC and coordinated multi point CoMP may be utilized to enable efficient operation of HetNets. Compared to FDD time division duplex TDD can offer flexible deployment opportunities without using a pair of spectrum resources and can enable further and adaptation of radio resource allocation in the time domain between uplink UL and downlink DL resources to suit different traffic conditions or any other performance metrics e.g. energy saving .

Allowing adaptive UL DL configurations depending on traffic conditions in different cells can significantly improve the system performance in some examples. illustrates an example where different UL DL configurations can considered in different cells. Networks e.g. HetNets or homogeneous networks can involve a same carrier or different carriers deployed by a single operator or different operators in the same band and employing either a same or different uplink downlink UL DL configurations. Where possible interference may include adjacent channel interference when different carrier frequencies are used as well as co channel interference when a same carrier frequency is used such as remote node to node interference or BS to BS interference or eNB to eNB interference . For instance the methods processes and system described herein can be straightforwardly extended to a scenario with two homogeneous deployments belonging to different operators on adjacent channels.

Legacy LTE TDD can support asymmetric UL DL allocations by providing seven different semi statically configured uplink downlink configurations. Table 1 illustrates seven UL DL configurations used in LTE where D represents a downlink subframe S represents a special subframe and U represents an uplink subframe. In an example the special subframe can operate or be treated as a downlink subframe.

As illustrated by Table 1 UL DL configuration 0 can include 6 uplink subframes in subframes 2 3 4 7 8 and 9 and 4 downlink and special subframes in subframes 0 1 5 and 6 and UL DL configuration 5 can include one uplink subframe in subframe 2 and 9 downlink and special subframes in subframes 0 1 and 3 9.

As an underlying requirement in some examples all cells of the network change UL DL TDD configurations synchronously in order to avoid the interference. However such a requirement can constrain the traffic management capabilities in different cells of the network. The legacy LTE TDD set of configurations can provide DL subframe allocations in the range between 40 and 90 as shown in Table 1. The UL and DL subframes allocation within a radio frame can be reconfigured through system information broadcast signaling e.g. system information block SIB . Hence the UL DL allocation once configured can be expected to vary semi statically.

Predetermined or semi statically configured UL DL configurations may not match the instantaneous traffic situation which can result in inefficient resource utilization especially in cells with a small number of users that download or upload large amounts of data. Adaptive UL DL configurations can be used to handle cell dependent traffic asymmetry and match instantaneous traffic situations but can generate different types of interferences if not taken into consideration. For such time division LTE TD LTE deployments with different UL DL configurations in different cells the new types of interferences due to asymmetric UL DL configurations can include node to node or BS to BS and UE to UE interference which can be mitigated using various mechanisms described herein. The impact of the inter cell DL UL node to node interference can significantly reduce the benefits obtained from the adaptability of UL DL configurations in different cells. The methods processes and system described herein can provide mechanisms to support dynamic allocation of UL DL subframes in a backward compatible manner with improved handling of the new interference types.

For example a framework can be used for efficient operation of TDD LTE systems with efficient support for adaptive UL DL subframe configurations based on traffic conditions in different cells with considerations for backward compatibility and handling of new interference types. The framework can be extended to apply to adaptation of UL DL TDD configuration based not only on traffic conditions but can include other performance metrics e.g. energy saving as well.

First a physical resource structure to support adaptive UL DL configurations in TD LTE networks is presented along with various considerations to ensure backward compatibility and avoid any detrimental effect on measurement capabilities for legacy and advanced UEs. Then mechanisms to handle the new types of interference are presented with emphasis on a more significant case of node to node interference. Finally some signaling solutions to support adaptive UL DL configurations are presented.

The legacy TDD LTE frame structure can be modified to support adaptive UL DL configurations and provide backward compatibility to a legacy TDD LTE frame structure. In legacy TDD LTE systems seven different UL DL configurations can be defined Configurations 0 6 as shown in Table 1 for LTE type 2 TDD frames. Some of the legacy subframes may not change their transmission direction DL or UL among different configurations e.g. fixed subframes or subframes 0 1 2 and 5 where 0 and 5 are DL subframes 1 is a special subframe and 2 is an UL subframe while others can be used for transmission direction in either DL or UL transmission directions depending on the selected UL DL configuration.

For instance based on an assumption of reusing the existing seven UL DL configurations and not introducing additional configurations the subframes whose transmit direction UL or DL can be reconfigured can be defined as Flexible Subframes FlexSFs as illustrated in . illustrates a radio frame structure that supports a legacy UL DL configuration allocation for legacy UEs in accordance with the supported UL DL configurations shown in Table 1 and also facilitates a dynamic UL DL re configuration indication mechanism for advanced UEs according to some embodiments. The radio frame structure can include ten subframes denoted by subframe index 0 through 9 from left to right. Subframes 0 5 and 6 can be designated as downlink subframes Subframe 1 can be designated as a special subframe i.e. Sp Subframe 2 can be designated as an uplink subframe and Subframes 3 4 7 8 and 9 can be designated as flexible subframes FlexSFs .

The flexible subframes within the radio frame can be designated for configuring flexible transmission directions where each of the flexible subframes can be dynamically designated a downlink uplink special or special uplink subframe for advanced UEs which can be configured with a flexible subframe. The special uplink subframe can include a downlink transmission period to transmit downlink control channels a central guard period GP to switch between a downlink and uplink transmission and an uplink data transmission period. In a TDD LTE deployment the radio frame structure can be 10 millisecond ms in a time duration and each subframe within the radio frame structure can be 1 ms in duration. In another configuration not shown any of the 10 subframes can be designated as flexible subframes not just Subframes 3 4 7 8 and 9 which can be dynamically e.g. 1 ms or semi statically e.g. every 600 ms configured as a DL UL or special subframe.

The FlexSFs can be used to adapt UL DL subframe configuration according to traffic loading condition as well as for interference management purposes. Thus each LTE type 2 frame can include FlexSFs and non flexible subframes fixed subframes . The fixed subframes can have fixed or semi static transmission direction in either UL or DL and may not change their transmission directions to preserve backward compatibility with legacy UEs.

A node e.g. macro node pico node or femto node can utilize the FlexSFs and determine to change the transmit direction of the FlexSFs dynamically based on local traffic conditions and or interference conditions. The FlexSFs may be initialized to a default transmission direction and then the FlexSFs may be adjusted based on the default UL DL configurations one of the seven different legacy UL DL configurations which may be different from the example shown in .

In an example the FlexSFs can be transparent to legacy UEs with a transmission direction determined from one of the seven different legacy UL DL configurations and the UL DL configuration can be changed semi statically for legacy UEs i.e. unable to utilize FlexSFs that do not conform to one of the seven different legacy UL DL configurations through system information block type1 SIB1 information bits. The framework can maximize the reuse of existing UL DL configurations but the framework can be straightforwardly extended to support additional new UL DL configurations. New UL DL configurations may define new hybrid automatic repeat request timing HARQ timing relationship for both physical downlink shared channel PDSCH and physical uplink shared channel PUSCH transmission. In an example the framework can support flexible subframe reconfiguration without any negative impact on the cell specific reference signal based CRS based measurement accuracy of legacy UEs.

When the dynamically configured transmission direction of FlexSFs is different from the default configuration as indicated by SIB1 the FlexSFs may not be used and or scheduled for legacy UEs. Advanced UEs can allow the node e.g. eNB to dynamically configure the FlexSFs to match the UL DL configuration with the instantaneous traffic situation effectively. The advanced UEs can use UL DL configurations beyond the seven legacy UL DL configurations. The physical resource structure including the FlexSF and node scheduling can maintain the existing PDSCH timing PUSCH physical HARQ indicator channel PUSCH PHICH timing and UL grant timing relationships thereby avoiding additional definitions of any new timing relationships to support the FlexSF. One approach to ensure backward compatibility and support for legacy measurements including DL control physical downlink control channel PDCCH reception may involve imposing restrictions such as only UL subframes may be used as FlexSFs and the resulting frame configuration from adaptive reconfiguration of one or more FlexSFs may belong to one of the seven type 2 frame structures of Table 1.

Another approach that allows bidirectional switching between UL DL for a subframe while maintaining backward compatibility and co existence with legacy UEs may be realized using multicast broadcast single frequency network type MBSFN type subframes as shown in . illustrates a flexible subframes with switchable transmission direction can be achieved with a virtual MBSFN setting. The data region in FlexSFs when configured as MBSFN subframes for legacy UEs can be dynamically configured as with a DL direction Pattern A or a UL direction Pattern B for advanced UEs through configuration indication field CIF signaling. A control region e.g. the PDCCH or first two OFDM symbols in the FlexSF may not change and may remain as DL control region to maintain the measure accuracy and backward compatibility. The data region e.g. remaining 12 OFDM symbols for normal cyclic prefix can switchably change transmission directions between UL and DL.

In one example the legacy PDCCH and PDSCH can represent elements of a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a downlink transmission between a node e.g. eNodeB and the wireless device e.g. UE using a generic long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in .

Each slot for a component carrier CC used by the node and the wireless device can include multiple resource blocks RBs and based on the CC frequency bandwidth. The CC can have a carrier frequency having a bandwidth and center frequency. Each subframe of the CC can include downlink control information DCI found in the legacy PDCCH. The legacy PDCCH in the control region can include one to three columns of the first OFDM symbols in each subframe or physical RB PRB when a legacy PDCCH is used. The remaining 11 to 13 OFDM symbols in the subframe may be allocated to the PDSCH for data for short or normal cyclic prefix .

Each RB physical RB or PRB can include 12 15 kHz subcarriers on the frequency axis and or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols on the time axis per slot. The RB can use seven OFDM symbols if a short or normal cyclic prefix CP is employed. The RB can use six OFDM symbols if an extended cyclic prefix is used. The resource block can be mapped to resource elements REs using short or normal cyclic prefixing or the resource block can be mapped to REs not shown using extended cyclic prefixing. The RE can be a unit of one OFDM symbol by one subcarrier i.e. 15 kHz .

Each RE can transmit two bits and of information in the case of quadrature phase shift keying QPSK modulation. Other types of modulation may be used such as 16 quadrature amplitude modulation QAM or 64 QAM to transmit a greater number of bits in each RE or bi phase shift keying BPSK modulation to transmit a lesser number of bits a single bit in each RE. The RB can be configured for a downlink transmission from the eNodeB to the UE or the RB can be configured for an uplink transmission from the UE to the eNodeB.

Interference management IM in TDD LTE systems can be used with adaptive UL DL configurations which can include flexible subframes. As discussed previously adaptive UL DL configurations in different cells i.e. asymmetric UL DL configurations can lead to new interference types such as UE to UE and node to node interference. Of the various interference types the case of DL UL interference e.g. node to node interference can be a more significant form of interference that if not handled effectively can reduce the performance improvements from adapting UL DL configurations to match traffic conditions in respective cells.

To address the DL UL interference while maximizing the overall system performance various IM principles can be used. For example DL signal to noise and interference ratio SINR can be less sensitive to UL interference and UL SINR can be more sensitive to DL interference especially from DL interference caused by a macro cell. The macro node can use flexible subframes FlexSF also referred to as interference management subframes IMS either with reduced DL transmit power or configured as UL subframe when the macro DL causes severe interference to neighboring cells or a majority of small cells UL FlexSF within the macro cell coverage area. Alternatively the small cell e.g femto cell or pico cell can use FlexSF either with a reduced DL transmit power or configured as UL subframe when the small cell causes severe interference to neighboring the small cells UL FlexSF within the small cell s coverage area or the macro cell s coverage area. The IM principles can be used to help determine when a macro node or low power node LPN may configure a FlexSF as a DL subframe or not configure the FlexSF as a DL subframe and with what DL transmit power level by considering the impact of interference generated to any nearby cells that may be operating in UL mode.

IM clustering can be an IM mechanism to mitigate node to node interference. In IM clustering the entire network can be divided into a number of clusters of cells that can be considered as isolated de coupled from each other. The cells within each cluster can use a same TDD configuration that is adapted according to the traffic conditions within the cluster while the cells in different clusters may have UL DL subframe configurations that are independent of other clusters.

The two coupling levels above a coupling threshold can be the basis for forming a first cluster with the first node and the second node and a second cluster with the fourth node and the fifth node . Since no coupling level above the coupling threshold exists between the third node and any other nodes a third cluster with a single node can be formed. Each cluster can have a different UL DL TDD configuration as indicated by the first UL DL TDD configuration corresponding to UL DL TDD configuration in Table 1 for the first cluster the second UL DL TDD configuration corresponding to UL DL TDD configuration in Table 1 for the second cluster and the third UL DL TDD configuration corresponding to UL DL TDD configuration in Table 1 for the third cluster .

The three clusters are depicted at the fifth timeslot sub frame labeled where potential conflicts in directional traffic exist but interference problems can be mitigated by the formation of different clusters. Potential conflicts can also exist on the eighth and ninth sub frames labeled and respectively . The formation of several different clusters allows the wireless wide area network WWAN to adapt in near real time to differing directional transmission traffic loads within the different clusters. Differing traffic loads can be depicted by differing numbers of arrows from UEs to nodes and from nodes to UEs depicting differing relative demands for UL and DL transmissions respectively. The various UL DL TDD configurations and can be modified to meet these demands for UL and DL transmissions.

To facilitate the determination of UL DL TDD configurations and nodes can communicate their directional traffic needs between one another over low latency backhaul infrastructure. Individual nodes within a cluster can be configured to send traffic direction information about traffic direction needs and receive such traffic direction information. Decisions about a common UL DL TDD configuration or a restricted set of UL DL configurations for a cluster and can be made on the basis of joint UL and DL needs throughout the cluster and or splitting differences between UL and DL traffic demands at individual nodes in the cluster.

Decisions about UL DL TDD configurations can be made at individual nodes and or at a network level. Determinations for UL DL TDD configurations for different clusters can be continually made and updated independent of one another to respond to dynamically changing directional traffic loads monitored within individual clusters.

As described an isolated cluster can be a group of cells or cluster for which the DL and UL performance e.g. SINR of the cells in the cluster are not deemed sensitive to the transmission direction of neighboring cells outside the cluster in other clusters and the change of transmission direction in the cells of the cluster may not degrade performance of the neighboring cells outside the cluster in other clusters . Clusters can be merged into a bigger cluster when isolated clusters overlap with one or more cells being common to both clusters. Clusters can be split into smaller clusters when a group of cells within the cluster are no longer sensitive to the transmission direction of other groups of cells within the cluster.

The identification of the IM clusters may be based on comparing pathloss values corresponding to the node to node channels between different cells to a pre determined threshold which may be cell specific. In an example the configurations of the IM clusters can be updated in a semi static manner. In another example the configurations of an IM cluster or a subset of the IM cluster can change dynamically based on the traffic conditions in the cells. For instance a single cluster may be de coupled into two or more subclusters if certain cells that couple these smaller clusters are deactivated e.g. have no active traffic . In another configuration IM clustering can be extended to include semi static coordination between IM clusters and dynamic coordination between sub clusters within an IM cluster.

In an example to generate the IM cluster each node can search for neighboring nodes and acquire time and frequency synchronization with a neighboring cell in a same frequency and detect the neighboring cell identifier ID using synchronization signals received previously at power up. Time and frequency synchronization information about neighboring nodes may also be made available at each node via information exchange over the backhaul. The node can perform corresponding reference signal received power RSRP and or reference signal received quality RSRQ measurements for each neighboring cell detected. In an example the RSRP and or RSRQ measurements can be taken in fixed subframes to allow backward compatibility and allow for use of flexible subframes. Each node can generate a measurement report and send the measurement report to other neighboring nodes or a network entity e.g. central processing module CPM centralized processing unit or a specified node . The network entity NE can be assigned to generate IM clusters and or coordinate UL DL configurations between cells. The measurement report can include a neighboring cell s physical layer cell identity PCI a RSRP value and or a RSRQ value. The NE can receive the measurement results reported from neighboring nodes to generate isolated cell identification ICI and determine whether to support UL DL configuration functionality at the neighboring nodes where neighboring nodes can be triggered automatically i.e. automatic UL DL reconfiguration . The NE can calculate and or determine an UL DL configuration indication status and send an UL DL configuration indication to a neighboring node and neighboring cells when the UL DL configuration indication is changed compared with previous states based on the output of automatic UL DL configuration function. The UL DL configuration indication can be used to inform the neighboring node that UL DL reconfiguration functionality is enabled or disabled. The neighboring node can set the UL DL reconfiguration enable or disable decision based on the UL DL configuration indication received from NE.

As illustrated to obtain RSRP type information for node to node channels some timing coordination may be used for one cell to make RSRP type measurements on the cell s uplink from the cell s neighboring cells. More specifically certain subframes may be configured to be in UL mode in the measuring cell while the cell to be measured operates in DL mode. Then once synchronization is achieved CRS or channel state information reference signals CSI RS based pathloss estimation may be utilized by the measuring cell to estimate the pathloss. In an example coordination between neighboring nodes can be facilitated via network coordination e.g. NE . A cell can in a measuring mode when the cell does not have an active load. Pathloss measurements from a cell may be performed while the cell is in DL mode transmitting either regular or MBSFN subframes while the measuring cell can be in UL mode during the measurements. Information regarding the synchronization signals CRS ports CSI RS resources and or transmit power information can be conveyed to the measuring cell via the backhaul X2 and or point to point fiber connection . Further coordination between the cells in the IM cluster may be used as well such as exchange of information regarding traffic conditions or a preferred UL DL configuration. Alternatively pathloss measurements between neighboring nodes may be done with additional signaling that can be defined specifically for IM clustering or can be implemented using a vendor specific procedure and or protocol.

Moreover for the above defined clusters of cells operating in DL mode the DL throughput performance may be further improved by using an appropriate DL Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP technique within the IM cluster depending on the loading and interference conditions within the IM cluster. However depending on the IM cluster and the DL CoMP measurement set sizes the configuration of the CoMP set may in general be independent of the configuration of the IM cluster. Similarly eICIC techniques may also be used in conjunction with IM methods e.g. IM clustering to further improve the performance via static and or semi static coordination of macro transmissions over a larger network area.

A Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system may be used to reduce interference from neighboring nodes in both homogeneous networks and HetNets. In the Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system the nodes referred to as cooperating nodes can also be grouped together with other nodes where the nodes from multiple cells can transmit signals to the wireless device and receive signals from the wireless device. The cooperating nodes can be nodes in the homogeneous network or macro nodes and or lower power nodes LPN in the HetNet. CoMP operation can apply to downlink transmissions and uplink transmissions.

Downlink CoMP operation can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given wireless device e.g. UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a wireless device e.g. UE in which multiple nodes transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and or dynamic cell selection.

Two methods can be used for joint transmission non coherent transmission which uses soft combining reception of the OFDM signal and coherent transmission which performs precoding between cells for in phase combining at the receiver. By coordinating and combining signals from multiple antennas CoMP allows mobile users to enjoy consistent performance and quality for high bandwidth services whether the mobile user is close to the center of a cell or at the outer edges of the cell.

Uplink CoMP operation can be divided into two categories joint reception JR and coordinated scheduling and beamforming CS CB . With JR a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH transmitted by the wireless device e.g. UE can be received jointly at multiple points at a time frame. The set of the multiple points can constitute the CoMP reception point RP set and can be included in part of UL CoMP cooperating set or in an entire UL CoMP cooperating set. JR can be used to improve the received signal quality. In CS CB user scheduling and precoding selection decisions can be made with coordination among points corresponding to the UL CoMP cooperating set. With CS CB PUSCH transmitted by the UE can be received at one point.

A network can support frequency domain inter cell interference coordination ICIC or time domain enhanced ICIC eICIC . In an example ICIC can be used to decrease interference between neighboring cells or nodes e.g. coordination nodes or cooperation nodes by lowering the power of a part of the subchannels in the frequency domain which then can be received close to the node. The subchannels do not interfere with the same subchannels used in neighboring cells and thus data can be sent to wireless devices that are close to the cell with less interference on these subchannels.

Another ICIC technique is enhanced ICIC eICIC used in the time domain for heterogeneous networks HetNets where a high power macro cell can be complemented with low power nodes such as pico cells hotspots in shopping centers or at airports or femto cells hotspots in small areas such as homes or businesses . The low power nodes can exist inside a macro cell coverage area. The macro cell can transmit long range high power signals and the low power nodes can transmit low power signals over short distances. In an example to mitigate interference between the macro cell and the several low power nodes located within the macro cell coverage area eICIC can coordinate the blanking of subframes in the time domain in the macro cell by using MBSFN type subframes. As used herein a cell can refer to the node e.g. eNB configured to communicate with wireless devices within a geographic region that is referred to as a cell coverage area.

In another example the backhaul link can be used to inform the victim cell e.g. operating in UL mode of partial or full information regarding the transmissions from a coupled aggressor cell e.g. operating in DL mode such that the victim cell may partially or completely cancel the interference from the aggressor cell s DL transmission first before decoding the UL transmissions from UEs in the victim cell via successive interference cancellation. Alternatively in a case of centralized processing centralized radio access network GRAN or C RAN based network architecture remote radio heads RRHs can be connected directly to a centralized processing module CPM or centralized processing unit e.g. using optical wired or wireless link where information about a transmit signal for set of RRHs and or macro cells can be available and can be utilized for compensation of inter cell interference between RRHs and or eNBs i.e. between different types of cells having opposite transmission directions .

Due to the relatively high transmission power of the nodes inter cell interference e.g. node to node interference can be a severe problem. For example the propagation characteristics between nodes e.g. macro nodes can be line of sight LOS with a transmit power approximately 25 30 decibels dB higher than the power of a user terminal or a wireless device. The decibel dB is a logarithmic unit that indicates the ratio of a physical quantity usually power or intensity relative to a specified or implied reference level. Thus the power level of a received uplink signal from the wireless device can be less than the power of the inter node interference signal from the aggressor node. Synchronous TDD networks using the same synchronous TDD configuration over the whole network has been used to avoid inter node interference.

Inter node interference can be compensated for or cancelled at a receiving node e.g. victim node or an uplink node allowing for asymmetrical DL and UL configurations across the multi cell environment with reduced interference and greater efficiency of TDD networks. A node e.g. eNB can be either a victim node or an aggressor node based on the DL or UL configuration of the node at a specified time interval. For example if at one time interval the node is receiving an uplink UL transmission from a wireless device while another node is transmitting a downlink DL transmission the node can be referred to as a victim node or an uplink node. If at another time interval the node is transmitting a DL transmission to a wireless device while another node is receiving an UL transmission the node can be referred to as an aggressor node or a downlink node.

In an example the victim node can receive DL signal information from an aggressor node via a backhaul communication link such as X2 signaling via a wired connection or an optical fiber connection. At the victim node a channel impulse response for a channel between the aggressor node and the victim node can be estimated using the downlink signal information. An inter node interference signal for the channel can be estimated using the downlink signal information and the channel impulse response. The victim node can receive an uplink signal from a wireless device after the downlink signal information of the aggressor node is received and the inter node interference signal is estimated. The estimated inter node interference signal can be subtracted from the uplink signal to form an inter node interference compensated uplink signal which can substantially cancel the inter node interference from the aggressor node in the uplink signal thus allowing a reliable and high throughput transmission between the victim node and wireless device.

Although illustrates a homogeneous network the methods systems devices and interference described herein can also be applicable to heterogeneous networks. In another example such as in a centralized radio access network C RAN or a HetNet inter node interference cancellation can be provided by at a central processing module CPM . In an example the CPM can be used as a baseband unit BBU for multiple stations of the network.

Inter node interference cancellation can provide a mechanism to cancel reduce or possibly even eliminate inter node interference in TDD networks for dynamic non aligned DL UL frame configurations between nodes or cells. Additionally inter node interference cancellation can be used to provide coexistence of TDD and FDD networks.

Referring back to of a homogeneous network deployment operating in dynamic TDD mode at a specified time interval a victim node in a victim node cell area can be in proximity to an aggressor node in an aggressor node cell area . Inter node interference cancellation can be provided for the victim node operating in UL victim cell and the aggressor node operating in DL aggressor cell . The uplink signal received by the victim node can be represented by y t hcircle around x s t hcircle around x s t n t 

where s t is an uplink signal transmitted by a victim cell wireless device i.e. a wireless device to the victim node s t is a downlink signal transmitted by the aggressor node to an aggressor cell wireless device i.e. a second wireless device n t is additive noise from other sources h is a channel impulse response between the victim cell wireless device and the victim node h is a channel impulse response between the aggressor node and the victim node.

Without interference the uplink signal received can be represented by hcircle around x s t the linear convolution of the channel impulse response between the victim cell wireless device and the victim node combined with the uplink signal transmitted by a victim cell wireless device. The power of the interference signal hcircle around x s t generated by the aggressor node can be much higher than the power of the useful uplink signal hcircle around x s t . Removing the additive term hcircle around x s t of the inter node interference signal from a neighboring node e.g. aggressor node can allow the victim node to successfully receive the uplink signal s t in some scenarios.

The interfering node i.e. aggressor node can provide over the backhaul link the downlink signal information on the transmitted signal to the receiving node i.e. victim node . Both the interfering node and the receiving node can receive the downlink signal information from each other since both nodes can provide downlink transmission at different intervals of time. The downlink signal information exchange may be implemented in different ways. In one embodiment the downlink signal information may include a direct waveform s t .

In another embodiment the downlink signal information may include the specific information used to reconstruct the transmitted waveform s t at the victim node. Such specific information may include information bits a resource allocation a multiple input multiple output MIMO transmission mode a modulation and code rate and combination of this specific information. The signal transmitted by aggressor node can become fully or partially known and available at the victim node.

Once the transmitted inter cell interference waveform s t is available at the victim node the victim node may use the inter cell interference waveform to estimate the channel impulse response h or channel transfer function between the victim node and the aggressor node. The channel estimation accuracy of the channel impulse response can be very high due to a large processing gain which comes from a knowledge of the transmitted waveform s t . Alternatively channel estimation may be performed with addition information provided by reference signals RS or synchronization signals in the system or the channel estimate may be provided by the network when the channel estimate was previously measured.

The victim node can estimate or reconstruct the received inter cell interference signal hcircle around x s t and subtract the inter cell interference signal from the received signal y t thus suppressing the inter cell interference. When the inter cell interference channel estimation can be accurately estimated the inter node interference compensated uplink signal at the victim node x t may be represented by which can substantially cancel the inter node interference from the aggressor node in the uplink signal.

Thus inter node interference cancellation can remove most of the inter node interference which can make the reception of the uplink signal feasible in an asymmetric UL DL configuration between neighboring nodes. Inter node interference cancellation can provide the TDD networks an additional option to dynamically control the TDD configuration in each cell of the network based on the instantaneous DL and UL traffic asymmetry.

Inter node interference cancellation can be used in HetNets or a centralized cooperative or cloud radio access network GRAN or C RAN where the node functionality can be subdivided between a baseband unit BBU processing pool and a remote radio unit RRU or a remote radio head RRH with optical fiber connecting the BBU to the RRU. The C RAN can provide centralized processing co operative radio and a real time cloud infrastructure RAN.

As illustrated in the C RAN can be composed of three parts a remote radio pool equipped by remote radio units RRUs A I with antennas a shared virtual base station or a baseband processing pool including baseband units BBUs A C and a fiber or cable A D and G in a physical transport network connecting at least one of the RRUs in the remote radio pool to at least one of the BBUs in the baseband pool. The baseband processing pool can be centralized. Each BBU can include a high performance general purpose processor a real time virtualization processor and or a physical PHY layer processor and or a MAC layer processor A F. The BBUs can be coupled to a load balancer and switch A B via electrical or optical cabling C. The physical transport network can be a low latency transport network a bandwidth efficient network and or an optical transport network using optical fiber or optical cabling.

In another example the physical transport network can be a high speed electrical transport network. The physical transport network can provide a physical communication link between the BBU and the RRU. The physical communication link can include an optical fiber link or a wired electrical link. The BBU can be referred to as a radio element controller REC . The RRU can be referred to as a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a relay station RS or a radio equipment RE . Each RRU can be separated from the BBU by a selected distance. Each RRU can include a sector cell or coverage area E for a wireless device such as a user equipment UE A J where the wireless device may be located within multiple sectors cells or coverage areas. The distributed RRUs of the C RAN can provide a RAN with high capacity and a wide coverage area.

RRUs A I can be smaller easier to install easier to maintain and consume less power than the BBUs A C. The baseband processing pool can aggregate the processing power of the BBU through real time virtualization technology and provide the signal processing capacity to the virtual BTSs or RRUs in the pool. The physical transport network can distribute the processed signals to the RRUs in the remote radio pool . The centralized BBU pool can reduce the number of node rooms used for BBUs and can make resource aggregation and large scale cooperative radio transmission reception possible. The C RAN can dynamically switch a serving gateway s S GW connectivity from a first BBU to a second BBU in the BBU pool. In another example the C RAN can dynamically switch a BBU s connectivity from a first RRU to a second RRU in the RRU pool.

Referring back to a heterogeneous network deployment operating in dynamic TDD mode at a specified time interval can provide the inter node interference cancellation in HetNets and or a C RAN. Inter node interference cancellation can apply to nodes in a heterogeneous cooperative network with a central processing module CPM or centralized processing unit and remote radio heads or macro node or LPNs .

In an example the CPM can be used as a baseband unit BBU for multiple stations of the network. When the CPM is used a backhaul link for transmitting downlink signal information to an uplink node may not be needed and processing such as construction of a transmit waveform inter node channel estimation and subtraction of the inter node interference signal from the received uplink signal may be directly implemented at the CPM which may also control operation of several cells nodes or remote radio heads RRH .

Inter node interference cancellation can be provided for the uplink node or operating in an UL in proximity to downlink node operating in a DL. The uplink signal received by the uplink node can be represented by where s t is an uplink signal transmitted by a wireless device to the uplink node s t is a downlink signal transmitted by the downlink node to a second wireless device n t is additive noise from other sources h is a channel impulse response between the wireless device and the uplink node h is a channel impulse response between the downlink node and the uplink node.

Inter node interference cancellation can be used in combination with MIMO beamforming techniques. For example the transmit beamforming at the aggressor node or downlink node can provide null steering in the direction of the victim node or uplink node to minimize the signal transmission power emitted in the direction of the victim node or uplink node. Receiver RX beamforming and interference cancellation at the side of the victim node or uplink node can provide preliminary inter cell interference compensation caused by the aggressor node or downlink node.

In another example inter cell interference cancellation can be applied to asynchronous DL and UL transmissions in different cells by using a reference interference signal waveform exchanged through the backhauling link between neighboring nodes. Inter cell interference cancellation can include reconstruction of the DL signal waveforms from aggressor cells and or adaptation to DL and UL traffic asymmetry in TDD networks.

In another configuration explicit and implicit signaling can support adaptive UL DL configurations in TDD LTE systems. The signaling design to indicate the reconfiguration of the UL DL configuration can depend on the frequency of reconfiguration to adapt to traffic conditions. As stated previously the UL DL configuration for legacy UEs can be changed semi statically through SIB1 information bits. Re configuration to adapt to traffic conditions if done semi statically may also be supported via explicit signaling of the UL DL configuration including the flexible subframe via a radio resource control RRC layer or by a media access control control element MAC CE .

If adaptation is performed dynamically the PDCCH or the enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH carrying the relevant UL DL DCI may be used to explicitly inform the advanced UEs of the UL DL configuration in a dynamic way. For a dynamic signaling approach either a specific DCI format of the same size as DCI format 1C in LTE may be designed that can also support UL DL subframe configuration adaptation for multiple component carriers CCs or the configuration indication field CIF may be added to the existing backward compatible DCI formats. In an example the specific DCI format to support UL DL subframe configuration adaptation for multiple CCs can include multiple CIFs and or use a configuration indicator radio network temporary identifier CI RNTI . While fast adaptations on scale of few milliseconds may be beneficial in terms of matching the traffic conditions in respective cells fast adaptations can lead to excessive signaling overhead if explicit signaling of the UL DL subframe configuration is used.

Implicit signaling based on a subframe pairing technique may also be used to dynamically indicate UL DL configurations. Implicit signaling can rely on existing timing relationships for UL grants PDSCH hybrid automatic repeat request acknowledgement HARQ ACK timing and PHICH timing in legacy networks without explicit signaling. During implicit signaling the node may not explicitly signal or inform the UE of the FlexSF transmission direction e.g. UL or DL . For implicit signaling the wireless device e.g. UE can consider a FlexSF as a DL subframe in the absence of an UL grant in the DCI carried by the PDCCH on a relevant DL subframe based on the UL grant timing . For an uplink subframe the wireless device can use a pattern B MBSFN type subframe i.e. false MBSFN subframe with a PDCCH as shown in . Thus implicit signaling can enable dynamic signaling of the UL DL subframe configuration without increasing the signaling overhead. The MBSFN type subframe design shown in can enable an implicit signaling scheme. Implicit can be used to reduce signaling bandwidth and or provide energy or power savings.

Automatic Repeat reQuest is a feedback mechanism whereby a receiving terminal requests retransmission of packets which are detected to be erroneous. Hybrid ARQ is a simultaneous combination of Automatic Retransmission reQuest ARQ and forward error correction FEC which can enables the overhead of error correction to be adapted dynamically depending on the channel quality. When HARQ is used and if the errors can be corrected by FEC then no retransmission may be requested otherwise if the errors can be detected but not corrected a retransmission can be requested. An ACKnowledgment ACK signal can be transmitted to indicate that one or more blocks of data such as in a PDSCH have been successfully received and decoded. HARQ ACK Negative ACKnowledgement NACK or NAK information can include feedback from a receiver to the transmitter in order to acknowledge a correct reception of a packet or ask for a new retransmission via NACK or NAK .

The node can be responsible for proper scheduling of data transmission for legacy UEs to ensure that a corresponding PUSCH resources and HARQ ACK resources of PDSCH and PUSCH are still valid even when the TDD configuration is changed for advanced UEs. In an example the FlexSFs with dynamically configured transmission directions can also be utilized by advanced UEs while maintaining a proper HARQ ACK feedback with predefined HARQ timeline linked and or corresponding to a configured UL DL configuration.

Some discrepancies related to sounding reference signals SRS resources may exist especially SRS transmissions based on LTE trigger type 0 i.e. via higher layer signaling such as RRC signaling for the case of dynamic adaptation. For example the subframe used to transmit SRS such as determined by the UE using subframe index kwithin the frame and SRS subframe offset Tvalues in LTE 3GPP Technical Specification TS 36.213 subsection 8.2 V11.0.0 2012 09 and subsequent releases can be configured in a semi static manner. For instance if such a subframe is a FlexSF the FlexSF may not be changed into a DL subframe to avoid such events as a missed SRS transmission. Sounding reference signals can include reference signals transmitted in an uplink UL to enable the node to perform channel sounding which can be used to support frequency domain scheduling.

The various processes methods configurations and systems described above can be combined in a TDD system operation e.g. TD LTE system operation with adaptive UL DL configurations. For example a method of a TDD operation with adaptive UL DL TDD configuration can start from an initial UL DL default configuration for the cells. The UL DL TDD configuration can be conveyed to the UEs in the respective cells via SIB1 messaging. The nodes e.g. eNBs can measure the local traffic condition interference conditions and evaluate the IM clustering conditions and or partitions in order to improve and or optimize a target performance metric s such as system throughput or spectral efficiency SE . The node can coordinate through a backhaul link e.g. X2 interface and or point to point fiber connection and determine to change a configuration for some cells or IM clusters. The node can send any reconfiguration information to a target cell or target cell clusters. The target cell or target cell clusters can use a flexible frame structure to change the target cell s or target cell clusters UL DL TDD configuration. Any reconfiguration information can be conveyed to the UEs either explicitly via RRC signaling a MAC CE and or the PDCCH or ePDCCH or implicitly utilizing UL grant timing. The node can coordinate the UL DL configuration and scheduling of data as well as SRS transmissions considering backward compatibility and co existence with legacy UEs different RATs transmission techniques and or node transmission powers. The nodes can also coordinate to employ CoMP or eICIC techniques to efficiently mitigate inter cell interference. The nodes can monitor the traffic interference conditions and re evaluate IM clustering conditions and or partitions in order to optimize the target performance metric s . If certain traffic interference and or IM clustering conditions exist the node can again coordinate through a backhaul link and determine to change a configuration for some cells or IM clusters and the process can repeat again.

The method and or system can include a general TDD system design framework e.g. TD LTE design framework to provide efficient operation for advanced systems e.g. 3GPP LTE V11.0.0 or LTE version 11 and subsequent releases with efficient support for adaptive UL DL subframe configurations based on a preferred performance metric or criteria e.g. traffic conditions or overall system throughput in different cells. The method and or system can provide a scheme to improve and or optimize the target performance metrics e.g. system throughput or SE by nodes e.g. eNBs utilizing the information including but not limited to local traffic condition interference conditions and or possible IM clustering conditions and or partitions to perform the adaptive UL DL subframe reconfiguration. The method and or system can take into account considerations on backward compatibility and handling of new interference types. In an example the method and or system can provide a complete design for effective support of adaptive UL DL subframe configurations. For example the system can include at least three major functional components a frame structure using a flexible subframe structure interference management IM schemes for TDD systems and signaling support including explicit and implicit signaling. Various detailed design options can be available for functional component can be extended modified or enhanced within the complete design framework. The TDD design framework can utilize different reconfigurable TDD frame structures interference management IM schemes and or different control signaling designs to improve and or optimize system performance. The TDD design framework can use a node to coordinate the UL DL configuration and schedule data as well as SRS transmissions considering backward compatibility and co existence aspects such as legacy UEs different RATs transmission techniques and or node transmission powers. The TDD design framework can use a node to coordinate and employ CoMP or eICIC techniques to efficiently mitigate inter cell interference.

In another example a method of a TDD operation with adaptive UL DL TDD configuration can start from an initial UL DL default configuration for the cells in the network or system. The UL DL TDD configuration can be conveyed to the UEs in the respective cells via SIB1 messaging. The nodes e.g. eNBs can measure the local traffic condition interference conditions and evaluate the IM clustering conditions and or partitions in order to improve and or optimize a target performance metric s such as system throughput or spectral efficiency SE . The network can be divided into groups of neighboring nodes. Such grouping can be determined based on backhaul capabilities and connections between nodes. In each such group based on a pre defined periodicity and or configuration a particular set of cells can perform measurements on certain subframes such as UL subframes. The UL transmissions which may be transmitted during the TDD special subframes from the UEs may not be scheduled to obtain long term channel strength e.g. RSRP type information from another set of neighboring cells to evaluate the IM clustering conditions. A second set of cells can operate in the DL mode and measurements can be performed on the CRS or CSI RS transmitted from the aggressor nodes.

Exchange of local traffic loading conditions in each cell can be facilitated by information exchange over the backhaul interface where the concerned cells may report such information including any relevant RSRP type information to a centralized processing unit CPU or CPM. The exchange of local traffic loading conditions can include both DL and UL traffic information which information can implicitly indicate a preferred DL UL subframe configuration in each cell. A master node CPM or CPU can coordinate through backhaul link e.g. X2 interface and or point to point fiber connection and determine to change a configuration for some cells or IM clusters. The master node CPM or CPU can send any reconfiguration information to the target cell or cell clusters over the backhaul link. Coordination can also be realized in a distributed way between participating cells and nodes.

Target cell or target cell clusters can use a flexible frame structure to change the target cell s or target cell clusters UL DL TDD configuration. In an example only an uplink subframe can change to DL mode based on the FlexSF frame structure illustrated in .

Any reconfiguration information can conveyed to an advanced UE e.g. a UE using the LTE release 12 standard or subsequent release using explicit layer 1 i.e. physical or PHY layer signaling. The information can be conveyed to the UEs via a configuration indication field CIF added to the existing legacy e.g. LTE release 10 and or 11 DCI formats.

Legacy UEs can operate according to the TDD configuration indicated through the SIB1 message as initially configured. The node can coordinate the UL DL configuration and scheduling of data as well as SRS transmissions considering backward compatibility and co existence with legacy UEs different RATs transmission reception techniques and or node transmission powers. For IM clusters with cells operating in the DL mode DL coordinated multi point CoMP techniques can be used to improve the DL spectral efficiency SE within the cluster. The node can monitor the traffic interference conditions and re evaluate possible IM clustering conditions and or partitions in order to optimize the target performance metric s which can facilitated by RSRP type measurement information as previously described. If conditions for a re configuration of the IM clusters are met the master node CPM or CPU can again coordinate through a backhaul link and determine to change a configuration for some cells or IM clusters and the process can repeat again.

Another example provides a method for adapting uplink downlink UL DL time division duplexing TDD subframe configurations in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of determining a preferred adaptive UL DL configuration as in block . The operation of receiving at a reference enhanced Node B eNB node configuration information for at least one neighboring node follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be reconfiguring an adaptive UL DL configuration for at least one of the reference eNB and the at least one neighboring node based on the node configuration information and sounding reference signal SRS subframe scheduling of the reference eNB and the at least one neighboring node as in block .

The node configuration information can include an UL DL configuration a radio access technology RAT standard or a node s nominal transmission power. In an example the reference eNB can be in a different cell from the at least one neighboring node. In another example the reference eNB and the at least one neighboring node can share a common cell identifier ID .

Receiving and transmitting node configuration information and other information between the reference eNB and the at least one neighboring node can use a backhaul link via a wired connection a wireless connection or an optical fiber connection. In an example the method can further include sending from the reference eNB the adaptive UL DL reconfiguration to the at least one neighboring node and scheduling UL data DL data and SRS transmissions at the reference eNB based on the adaptive UL DL reconfiguration. The UL data DL data and SRS transmissions can also be scheduled at the at least one neighboring node based on the adaptive UL DL reconfiguration.

In a configuration the operation of determining the preferred adaptive UL DL configuration can further include Determining a criteria for optimizing at least one system performance metric based on at least one system operation metric measuring the at least one system operation metric at the reference eNB receiving at the reference eNB at least one system operation metric measurement from the at least one neighboring node and configuring the preferred adaptive UL DL configuration based on the at least one system operation metric measurement to improve the at least one system performance metric. The system performance metric can include a system throughput spectral efficiency SE a delay metric a quality of service QoS metric or a quality of experience QoE metric. The system operation metric can include a traffic condition traffic loading an interference type or an interference condition.

In another configuration the operation of determining the preferred adaptive UL DL configuration can further include Measuring interference on an uplink UL subframe of the reference eNB during a downlink DL subframe of the at least one neighboring node receiving at the reference eNB an interference measurement from at least one neighboring node wherein the interference measurement includes a reference signal received power RSRP or reference signal received quality RSRQ measurement on a UL channel of the reference eNB determining interference management IM clusters based on the collected interference measurements due to neighboring nodes and configuring the preferred adaptive UL DL configuration for each IM cluster. The nodes generating interference to each other above a specified threshold can be grouped together in a same IM cluster.

In an example the method can further include configuring the nodes in each IM cluster operating in downlink DL mode with a transmission technique based on loading and interference conditions to improve spectral efficiency or mitigate inter cell interference within the IM cluster. The transmission technique can include a downlink DL coordinated multi point CoMP transmission enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC and combinations thereof.

In another example the operation of determining IM clusters can further include Estimating a pathloss of node to node channels between the nodes having a same cell identity or different cell identities using a cell specific reference signal CRS or a channel state information reference signal CSI RS and comparing the estimated pathloss to the specified threshold.

In another configuration the operation of reconfiguring the adaptive UL DL configuration can further include Determining uplink UL subframes used to transmit sounding reference signals SRS and changing a flexible subframe FlexSF of the adaptive UL DL configuration used for an UL to a downlink DL when the FlexSF is not scheduled to transmit SRS.

In an example operation of reconfiguring the adaptive UL DL configuration can be configured semi statically via system information block type1 SIB1 information bits radio resource control RRC signaling or a medium access control MAC control element MAC CE . In another example operation of reconfiguring the adaptive UL DL configuration can be configured dynamically via explicitly using a physical downlink control channel PDCCH or an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH carrying a relevant downlink control information DCI or implicitly where a flexible subframe FlexSF of the adaptive UL DL configuration operates as a downlink DL subframe when the relevant DCI does not include an uplink UL grant.

In another configuration the operation of determining the preferred adaptive UL DL configuration can further include Measuring the reference eNB s traffic condition and interference condition receiving at the reference eNB a traffic condition and an interference condition from a plurality of neighboring nodes determining an interference management IM clustering condition and partition for the reference eNB and the plurality of neighboring nodes grouping the reference eNB and the plurality of neighboring nodes based on the traffic condition the interference condition the IM clustering condition and partition a backhaul capability a UL DL configuration periodicity or a UL DL configuration. The interference condition can include adjacent channel interference and co channel interference. In another example the method can further include monitoring the traffic condition the interference condition and IM clustering condition and partition of the reference eNB and the at least one neighboring node to improve a performance metric.

Another example provides a method for adapting uplink downlink UL DL time division duplexing TDD subframe configurations in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of grouping a plurality of nodes into interference management IM clusters when a pathloss of node to node channels is above a specified threshold as in block . The operation of generating a preferred adaptive UL DL configuration for each of the IM clusters wherein at least one preferred adaptive UL DL configuration includes a flexible subframe FlexSF configured to switch between an uplink UL subframe and a downlink DL subframe follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be reconfiguring the adaptive UL DL configuration for each of the IM clusters to provide backward compatibility based on the node configuration information and sounding reference signal SRS subframe scheduling as in block . The method can further include transmitting the adaptive UL DL reconfiguration to at least one node in a selected IM cluster via a backhaul link via a wired connection a wireless connection or an optical fiber connection as in block .

In an example the method can further include a node dynamically signaling a wireless device in the IM cluster with the adaptive UL DL configuration explicitly using a physical downlink control channel PDCCH or an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH carrying a relevant downlink control information DCI or implicitly where the FlexSF operates as a downlink DL subframe when the relevant DCI does not include an uplink UL grant. The node configuration information can include an UL DL configuration a radio access technology RAT standard or a node s nominal transmission power.

In a configuration the operation of generating the preferred adaptive UL DL configuration can further include Determining a criteria for optimizing at least one system performance metric based on at least one system operation metric measuring the at least one system operation metric at an eNB collecting at least one system operation metric measurements from a plurality of nodes and configuring the preferred adaptive UL DL configuration based on the at least one system operation metric measurements to improve the at least one system performance metric. In an example the at least one system performance metric can include a system throughput spectral efficiency SE a delay metric a quality of service QoS metric or a quality of experience QoE metric. In another example the at least one system operation metric can include a traffic condition traffic loading an interference type or an interference condition.

In another configuration the operation of generating the preferred adaptive UL DL configuration can further include Measuring a node s traffic condition interference condition or IM clustering condition and partition wherein the interference condition includes adjacent channel interference and co channel interference collecting the traffic conditions interference conditions or IM clustering condition and partition from a plurality of nodes regrouping the plurality of nodes based on the traffic condition the interference condition the IM clustering condition and partition a backhaul capability a UL DL configuration periodicity or a UL DL configuration configuring the nodes in each IM cluster operating in downlink DL mode with a transmission technique and monitoring the traffic condition the interference condition or IM clustering condition and partition of the plurality of nodes to improve a performance metric. The transmission technique or transmission reception technique can include a downlink DL coordinated multi point CoMP transmission enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC and combinations thereof.

In an example the functions of the scheduler and or the estimating module can be performed by the processing module. The transceiver module can be configured to receive node configuration information for at least one neighboring node and transmit a UL DL configuration to the at least one neighboring node. The transceiver module can be further configured to communicate with the neighboring node via X2 signaling X2 application protocol X2AP or backhaul link signaling via a wired connection a wireless connection or an optical fiber connection. The processing module can be enabled to reconfigure an adaptive UL DL configuration for at least one of a plurality of nodes including the at least one neighboring node based on the node configuration information. The plurality of nodes can use a common cell identity or distinct cell identities.

Reconfiguring the adaptive UL DL configuration can include changing a flexible subframe FlexSF from an uplink UL to a downlink DL . The node configuration information can include an UL DL configuration a radio access technology RAT standard or a node s nominal transmission power. The node e.g. reference node and neighboring node can include a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a remote radio unit RRU or a central processing module CPM .

In a configuration the processing module and can be further operable to reconfigure the FlexSF of the adaptive UL DL configuration from a UL subframe to a DL subframe when the FlexSF is not scheduled to transmit a sounding reference signal SRS . In another configuration the scheduler and can be configured to schedule UL data DL data and sounding reference signal SRS transmissions based on the adaptive UL DL reconfiguration.

In another configuration the processing module and can be further operable to determine at least one system operation metric to monitor measure the at least one system operation metric and configure an adaptive UL DL configuration to improve a system performance metric based on at least one system operation metric measurement from a plurality of eNBs. The system performance metric can include a system throughput spectral efficiency SE a delay metric a quality of service QoS metric or a quality of experience QoE metric. The at least one system operation metric can include a traffic condition traffic loading an interference type and an interference condition. The transceiver module and can be further operable to receive the at least one system operation metric measurement from the at least one neighboring node.

In another configuration the estimating module and can be configured to estimate a pathloss of node to node channels between nodes having a common cell identity or distinct cell identities using a cell specific reference signal CRS or a channel state information reference signal CSI RS . The transceiver module and can be further operable to receive an interference measurement from at least one neighboring node. The interference measurement can include a reference signal received power RSRP or reference signal received quality RSRQ measurement on a UL channel of the at least one neighboring node generating the interference measurement. The processing module and can be further operable to measure interference on a UL subframe of the node during a DL subframe of the at least one neighboring node compare the estimated pathloss of the node to node channels for each pair of the nodes to a specified threshold group the nodes together in a same interference management IM cluster when the estimated pathloss associated with the nodes exceeds the specified threshold and configure the adaptive UL DL configuration for each IM cluster.

In an example the processing module and can be further operable to configure the nodes in each IM cluster operating in downlink DL mode with a transmission technique to improve spectral efficiency or mitigate inter cell interference within the IM cluster. The transmission technique can include a downlink DL coordinated multi point CoMP transmission enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC and combinations thereof.

In another example the transceiver module and can be further operable to receive downlink signal information from a neighboring node. The processing module and can be further operable to estimate a channel impulse response for a channel between the neighboring node and the node using the downlink signal information estimate an inter node interference signal for the channel using the downlink signal information and the channel impulse response and subtract the estimated inter node interference signal from a received signal to substantially cancel the inter node interference from the neighboring node before decoding a desired uplink signal. The transceiver module can be further configured to receive the uplink signal from a wireless device before subtracting the estimated inter node interference signal from the uplink signal and the downlink signal information can be received prior to the reception of the uplink signal.

In another configuration the processing module and can be further operable to reconfigure the adaptive UL DL configuration dynamically via explicitly using a physical downlink control channel PDCCH or an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH carrying a relevant downlink control information DCI or implicitly where the FlexSF operates as a downlink DL subframe when the relevant DCI does not include an uplink UL grant.

The wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The processing module can be configured to generate a SRS and an uplink signal and process a downlink signal. The transceiver module can be configured to transmit the SRS and the uplink signal and receive the downlink signal.

Another example provides functionality of a node device operable to adapt uplink downlink UL DL time division duplexing TDD subframe configurations in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality can be implemented as a method or the functionality can be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The node device can be configured to receive node configuration information for at least one neighboring node and transmit a UL DL configuration to the at least one neighboring node as in block . In addition the node device can be configured to reconfigure an adaptive UL DL configuration for at least one of a plurality of nodes including the at least one neighboring node based on the node configuration information wherein the plurality of nodes use a common cell identity or distinct cell identities and reconfiguring the adaptive UL DL configuration includes changing a flexible subframe FlexSF from an uplink UL to a downlink DL as in block .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the preceding descriptions numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

