---

title: Selection of ad units of a compound advertisement for display
abstract: In an embodiment, a digital data specification of a compound advertisement comprising a plurality of ad units is received at an advertisement delivery server computer, where the digital data specification of the compound advertisement specifies one or more sequential dependencies between one or more ad units of the plurality of ad units and a bid value for each ad unit of the plurality of ad units. Based at least in part on a particular sequential dependency of the first ad unit upon a second ad unit of the same compound advertisement and a bid value associated with the first ad unit, a first ad unit of the compound advertisement is selected for display at a separate user computing device using the advertisement delivery server computer. The first ad unit is caused to display at the particular user computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09299092&OS=09299092&RS=09299092
owner: Tapjoy, Inc.
number: 09299092
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131015
---
The present disclosure relates to techniques for selecting and causing display of ad units of a compound advertisement at a user computing device. More specifically the present disclosure relates to techniques for selecting an ad unit from a plurality of ad units based on one or more sequential dependencies and bid discrimination.

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Many publishers of computer program applications apps generate revenue from the distribution of their applications by displaying advertisements within the applications. For example a mobile app developer may program an app such that advertisements ads occasionally are displayed in one or more graphical user interfaces of the app when the app executed at a user computing device. In exchange for the display of the ads in an app the publisher may receive compensation from advertisers according to known advertising compensation models. By displaying such advertisements many application publishers are able to generate profits while providing the application to users for free or at a reduced price.

Some advertisements aim to be effective in such a platform by offerings some sort of incentive for a user to interact with the advertisement. For example some advertisements may announce Click here to win a prize. However such advertisements often have little influence upon the user. That is a user may click or otherwise interact with an advertisement to gain an incentive but may give little attention to the topic being advertised. Advertisements could be more effective if ads could be delivered in a way that enables the ads to leave a greater impression upon the user.

Techniques for selecting and causing display of ad units of compound advertisements are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In an embodiment a digital data specification of a compound advertisement comprising a plurality of ad units is received at an advertisement delivery server computer where the digital data specification of the compound advertisement specifies one or more sequential dependencies between one or more ad units of the plurality of ad units and a bid value for each ad unit of the plurality of ad units. Based at least in part on a particular sequential dependency of the first ad unit upon a second ad unit of the same compound advertisement and a bid value associated with the first ad unit a first ad unit of the compound advertisement is selected for display at a separate user computing device using the advertisement delivery server computer. An electronic digital message is transmitted from the advertisement delivery server computer to a particular user computing device where the message is configured to cause display of the first ad unit at the particular user computing device.

In an embodiment a digital data specification of a compound advertisement comprising a plurality of ad units is received at an advertisement delivery server computer where the digital data specification of the compound advertisement specifies one or more sequential dependencies between one or more ad units of the plurality of ad units of the compound advertisement including a particular sequential dependency of a first ad unit of the plurality of ad units upon a second ad unit of the plurality of ad units and bid value for each ad unit of the plurality of ad units. It is determined that a monetization event has occurred in a publisher application at a particular user computing device. In response to the determination that the monetization event has occurred in the publisher application at the particular user computing device using the advertisement delivery server computer the first ad unit of the compound advertisement is selected for display at the particular user computing device based on 1 a determination that a first message configured to cause display of the second ad unit was previously transmitted to the particular user computing device 2 a determination that the first ad unit is associated with a particular app event type and the monetization event is of the particular app event type and 3 a determination that a bid value associated with the first ad unit is greater than a bid value associated with a third ad unit. A second electronic digital message is transmitted from the advertisement delivery server computer to the particular user computing device where the second electronic digital message is configured to cause display of the first ad unit at the particular user computing device.

Using the approaches described herein an advertiser may deliver different ad units of the same compound advertisement to the same user but at different times of the day during interaction with different apps during different usage sessions of the same app or even at different mobile devices of the same user. The different ad units may relate to a single topic and may together tell a story that the user can relate to. For example a compound ad advertising a running shoe may comprise a first ad unit featuring the running shoe being used in an early morning scene. The second ad unit may feature the same running shoe in a lunchtime scene and may only be displayed during lunchtime and to users that had previously seen the morning scene. A third ad unit may also feature the same running shoe and may only be displayed to users that have seen both the first ad unit and the second ad unit. Such compound advertisements may be more effective than traditional approaches. The message of the advertisement is likely to create a bigger impact on a viewer that views the three ad units relating to the same topic at different times throughout the day and perhaps during interactions with different apps than other types of advertisements.

In some embodiments the compound advertisements may be polymorphic. That is different ad units from the same compound advertisement may be selected to display at different user computing devices depending on one or more factors such as the types of ad units that were previously displayed to the user computing devices the types of publisher applications being used at the user computing devices attributes of the user computing devices or users associated therewith environmental attributes at the time that various monetization events occur and other factors. For example for users located in a location with sunny weather the second ad unit may feature a sunny scene whereas for users located in a location with rainy weather the second ad unit may feature a rainy scene.

User computing device may be any of a variety of computing devices including but not limited to a mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer netbook computer laptop computer or a personal desktop computer. User computing device may be one of a plurality of user computing devices communicatively coupled to network . Network broadly represents one or more local area networks wide area networks internetworks global interconnected internetworks such as the public internet or a combination thereof.

Publisher applications such as publisher app may be installed upon one or more user computing devices such as user computing device . Publisher app may be any of a variety of different applications including but not limited to a game app a utility app a product related app or another app. User computing device may download publisher applications such as publisher app from app distribution server . Publisher app may comprise SDK logic which causes publisher app to notify ad delivery server computer of the occurrence of various monetization events within publisher app .

App distribution server is associated with a developer author or publisher of a mobile device app or a distribution channel such as a centralized app downloading service examples include the APPLE APP STORE and GOOGLE PLAY service.

Ad delivery server computer may cause advertisements such as various ad units of various compound advertisements to display at user computing devices such as user computing device . The ad units may be caused to display in response to the occurrence of monetization events at the user computing devices. The ad units may be served to user computing device by ad delivery server computer or by another ad inventory server. The ad units may be served to an app installed on user computing devices such as publisher app which may cause the ad to display upon user computing device . The ad units may be served to publisher app by ad delivery server computer or by another ad inventory server at the instruction of ad delivery server computer . In a commercial embodiment advertisement delivery server is associated with an advertisement delivery service operator such as Tapjoy Inc. San Francisco Calif.

Ad delivery server computer may represent a single computer or a collection of computers and may be communicatively coupled via network to one or more publisher application computers such as publisher application computer and one or more advertiser computers such as advertiser computer .

Publisher application computer may be associated with a publisher whose application is registered with ad delivery server computer as a publisher application. The registered application may be for example publisher app installed upon user computing device .

Advertiser computer may be associated with an advertiser that requests ad delivery server computer to display advertisements of the advertiser at user computing devices such as user computing device .

Ad delivery server computer may be communicatively coupled to data repository which may store data obtained from user computing devices such as user computing device from publisher application computers such as publisher application computer from advertiser computers such as advertiser computer and other data generated by ad delivery server computer . Data repository may comprise ad repository ad specifications ad delivery history and publisher app info .

Ad repository may comprise the advertisement media to be delivered to user computing devices such as user computing device . Ad specifications may comprise information related to the ad units such as sequential dependencies between ad units bid values associated with various ad units constraints on the display of ad units such as recipient constraints app event type constraints and environmental attribute constraints or any combination thereof. At least some data of ad specifications may be determined based on advertisement specifications obtained from advertiser computers such as advertisement computer .

Ad delivery history may indicate which ad units have been sent for display and to which user computing devices. Sending an ad unit for display to a user computing device may comprise sending a message configured to cause the ad unit to display at the user computing device. Ad delivery history may identify the one or more ad units that were sent in association with device IDs identifying the devices to which the ad units were sent.

Publisher app info comprises information about one or more publisher applications registered with advertisement delivery server computer . The registration information may include monetization event definitions identifying various monetization events that may occur in the one or more publisher applications and constraints upon the type of ad units that may display in response to the various monetization events. At least some data of publisher app info may be determined based on publisher application registrations obtained from advertiser computers such as publisher application computer .

Ad delivery logic may comprise instructions for selecting and causing display of advertisements at user computing devices such as user computing device based in part on the information in data repository .

At block ad delivery server computer receives registration information for one or more publisher application where the registration information for a publisher application identifies events in the publisher application selected for monetizationion. An ad unit may be displayed at a user computing device in response to the occurrence of a monetization event in a publisher application executing at the user computing device. The publisher of the publisher application may receive a monetary payment or other consideration for allowing advertisements to be displayed in response to the occurrence of monetization events in the publisher application. For example a publisher of a publisher app may receive a monetary payment from an operator of the ad delivery service associated with ad delivery server computer each time an ad unit ad delivery server computer causes an ad unit to display at user computing device in response to the occurrence of a monetization event in publisher app .

Ad delivery server computer may receive a digital message from a publisher application computer such as publisher application computer comprising the registration information. Publisher application computer may be associated with a publisher of the publisher application. A publisher of an application may be for example a developer of the application or a distributor of the application. A publisher may register multiple different applications with the ad delivery service operated by ad delivery server computer . For example a company may distribute multiple applications and may register each of the multiple applications with the ad delivery system because it wishes to monetize each of the multiple applications.

A publisher may enter publisher application registration information via a registration web console caused to display at publisher application computer by ad delivery server computer . Via the registration web console the publisher may identify each of the various events in the publisher app that the publisher wishes to monetize.

Examples of application events that the publisher may identify as monetization events include application launch application pause and application exit. In an embodiment publisher app is a gaming application and the publisher may monetize app events such as game launch game pause and game exit. Publisher app may feature levels where certain accomplishments must be completed before a user is able to advance to the next level and app events such as level up and level fail may be monetized. Publisher app may provide a tutorial such as a tutorial on how to play a game in the app or complete an action using the app. In such an embodiment app events such as tutorial launch tutorial complete and tutorial exit may be monetized. Other examples of monetization events include user dead user out of virtual currency launch of an in game store completion of a purchase in an in game store exiting of an in game store.

In an embodiment in addition to sending publisher application registration information to ad delivery server computer a publisher of the publisher application may also integrate an ad delivery software development kit SDK with the publisher application. Publisher application computer which may be associated with the publisher may obtain the software development kit SDK from ad delivery server computer . After the ad delivery software development kit SDK has been integrated with the logic of a publisher application the publisher application device may send a monetization event notification to ad delivery server computer each time a configured monetization event occurs in the publisher application.

In one embodiment the integration process comprises modifying the native code of publisher app to cause certain logical components of SDK logic to execute in response to the occurrence of certain events in the app such as events that have been selected as monetization events. For example publisher app may be modified to call a particular function that is implemented in SDK logic every time a particular monetization event occurs. When the particular function that is implemented in SDK logic executes SDK logic may send a notification to ad delivery server computer . The notification may indicate the type of the monetization event that occurred in publisher app and other information such as a device identifier identifying user computing device .

Further details of one embodiment where SDK logic is integrated with publisher app are described below in Section 2.3 Software Development Kit SDK Integration. In other embodiments publisher app may notify ad delivery server computer of the occurrence of a monetization event without integrating any software development kit such as SDK logic .

In some embodiments a publisher identifies a monetization event by selecting a pre defined event type displayed as an option in the registration web console indicating that the pre defined event type occurs in the publisher app and has been selected by the publisher as a monetization event. In addition a developer of publisher app may include a code segment or other logic in association with the particular app event that links the occurrence of the particular app event with a component of SDK logic . That is the occurrence of the particular app event may cause publisher app to trigger the component SDK logic when the particular app event occurs during execution of publisher app. When executed the component may cause a particular notification to be sent to ad delivery server computer indicating which event type has occurred in publisher app .

In some embodiments a publisher may identify a custom monetization event that is not pre defined. For example if publisher app is a news app that enables a user to read various news articles the publisher of publisher app may define a custom monetization event titled Article Complete where ad delivery server computer is notified when a user exits out of reading a particular article in the news app. The publisher may input a name for the custom event type in the registration web console during the registration process indicating that the custom event type occurs in the publisher app and has been selected by the publisher as a monetization event. A developer of publisher app may include a code segment or other logic in association with the Article Complete app event that links the occurrence of the particular app event with a component of SDK logic .

The monetization event notifications sent by publisher app to ad delivery server computer may identify the particular event type that occurred. For example in response to determining that the user has exited out of a reading a particular article in publisher app publisher app may send a notification to ad delivery server including the message Article Complete. In some embodiments SDK logic causes such a notification to be sent.

Using the web console a publisher may specify constraints regarding format of ad units that may be displayed in response to the occurrence of a monetization event in the publisher app. The format constraints may be applicable to advertisement attributes such as media format advertisement size indicating the amount of screen space occupied by the advertisement and length of time the ad unit is displayed or played for. Examples of advertisement media formats that may be selected by the publisher as permissible ad types include but are not limited to video advertisements static image advertisements sound only advertisements and interactive rich media advertisements. Examples of advertisement sizes include full screen advertisement or a banner advertisement that only occupied a portion of the screen. During the registration process a publisher may enter input into the web console via publisher application computer and the registration information may be sent to ad delivery server computer via network .

In one embodiment the publisher may associate different constraints with different monetization events. For example publisher app may be an e reader app where the publisher of publisher app defines a first monetization event titled Read Five Pages which occurs when the user has clicked a Next Page option four times while reading a single article in publisher app . The publisher may define a second monetization event titled Article Complete which occurs when the user exits out of a particular article. Because the Read Five Pages monetization event is likely to occur more frequently than the Article Complete monetization event and because the advertisement would be interrupting a user action the publisher may prefer to make advertisements triggered by the Read Five Pages monetization event less intrusive than the advertisements triggered by the Article Complete monetization event. Thus the publisher may specify a first constraint associated with the Read Five Pages monetization event specifying that only advertisements that display or play for under five 5 second may display in response to the Read Five Pages monetization event and may specify a second constraint associated with the Article Complete monetization event specifying that only advertisements that display or play for under ten 10 second may display in response to the Read Five Pages monetization event.

In an embodiment one or more monetization events belong to app event type categories. For example each monetization event may belong to the category of positive negative or neutral depending on whether the event being monetized is a desired event undesired event or neutral event in the publisher app from the perspective of the user. A positive event may be the occurrence of an achievement within the applications. For example in a gaming application app events of the user winning the game or advancing to the next level after beating one level may belong to the category of positive app events. A negative app event may be the occurrence of an obstacle or setback within the application. Referring again to a game app example an undesired event may be the loss of a virtual life or the loss of energy.

Pre defined monetization events may be assigned an app event type category by ad delivery server computer . For example the monetization event of level up may be automatically assigned to the positive app event category. In some embodiments the assigned app event category may be a default category which may be changeable by a publisher computer such as publisher application computer . Publisher application computer specifies app event categories for one or more custom monetization event defined by the publisher application computer. For example publisher application computer may specify a monetization event of User Injured and may indicate that the app event belongs to an app event category of negative app events.

The publisher may specify a minimum bid level for each monetization event. Ad delivery server computer may only cause an ad unit to display in response to monetization event if the bid value offered by an advertiser for the ad unit equals or exceeds the minimum bid value specified by the publisher for the monetization event. For example a publisher may assign a high bid value to the Read Five Pages monetization event because it is high value placement due to the fact that the attention of the user is likely to be highly focused upon the app at that time.

In an embodiment the publisher may specify a plurality of bid values for a particular monetization event where each bid value is applicable to a different type of advertisement. For example the publisher may associate a higher minimum bid value with the display of an interactive rich media ad unit in response to a particular monetization event as compared to the minimum bid value associated with the display of a static image advertisement in response to the same particular monetization event.

In some embodiments ad delivery server computer receives registration information for hundreds of different publisher applications.

A publisher may manage publisher application registration information via a management web console that is caused to display at a publisher computer such as publisher application computer by ad delivery computer . Using the console the publisher may track the amount of money generated per app or per monetization event. The publisher may also one or more aspects of the specification using the console.

In some embodiments the publisher may register certain app events without selecting them for monetization. The app events may also be linked with SDK logic such that ad deliver server computer to be notified of their occurrence.

Using the web console the publisher may view the frequency with which such non registered monetization events occur. The publisher may select further app events for monetization or remove app events from monetization on the basis of such information presented via the management web console.

At block ad delivery server computer receives advertisement specification s including at least one specification of a compound advertisement that includes bid value s for ad units of the compound advertisement. The advertisement specification s may be received from a plurality of different advertiser computers such as advertiser computer each of which may be associated with different advertisers.

The advertisement specification sent from advertiser computer to ad delivery server computer may include the ad media for each of the ad units and a specification of the media type of each ad unit.

The advertisement specification may define sequential dependencies between ad units of compound ad units. Some sequential dependencies may be required. That is an ad unit may only be displayed if the sequential dependency is satisfied. Other sequential dependencies may be optional. For example ad unit is optionally sequentially dependent on ad unit . That is ad unit is eligible for display even if ad unit is not displayed although the bid value associated with the ad unit may be less if the sequential dependency upon ad unit is not satisfied. Ad unit is associated with a default bid value of 0.05 which applies if none of the sequential dependencies applicable to ad unit are satisfied. Ad unit is also associated with the higher bid value of 0.50 which applies if the sequential dependency upon ad unit is satisfied.

A sequential dependency of a first ad unit upon a second ad unit at a user computing device may be satisfied if a particular advertisement action relating to the second ad unit is completed at the user computing device. In some embodiments the particular advertisement action relating to the second ad unit at the user computing device is the display of the second ad unit at the user computing device. That is a sequential dependency applicable to the first ad unit may be satisfied if the second ad unit was previously displayed at the user computing device.

In other embodiments the particular advertisement action associated with the sequential dependency may be some other action such as the clicking of a component of the second ad unit at the user computing device or some form of conversion of the second ad unit. Ad units may be converted for example if the user signs up for an offer identified within the second ad unit at the user computing device or a user downloads a software identified within with the second ad unit at the user computing device.

In some embodiments a sequential dependency set comprising a plurality of sequential dependencies may be associated with an ad unit. According to one embodiment a particular sequential dependency set may be satisfied if each of the plurality of sequential dependencies in the set. According to another embodiment a particular sequential dependency set may be satisfied if any of the sequential dependencies in the set are satisfied. For example ad unit is sequentially dependent on the display of ad units or . Ad unit may only be eligible for display at a particular user computing device if none of ad units and were previously displayed at the particular user computing device. Thus the set of sequential dependencies applicable to ad unit is required. One of the sequential dependencies of the set of sequential dependencies must be satisfied for ad unit to be eligible for display. In other embodiments the set of sequential dependencies may be optional. That is ad unit may still be eligible for display even if none of the sequential dependencies are satisfied.

In some embodiments sequential dependencies apply on a per user basis rather than a per device basis. For example ad delivery server may maintain a list of device identifiers associated with a user and ad unit may be eligible for display at a particular user computing device associated with a particular user if ad unit was previously displayed at any of the various user computing device associated with the particular user.

Advertisement specifications may also specify acceptable app event types for one or more ad units in the compound advertisement. In some embodiments an ad unit may only be displayed in response to monetization events of the type associated with the ad unit. For example advertiser computer may specify that a particular ad unit of a particular compound advertisement is associated with the app event types of application launch and tutorial complete. The particular ad unit may only be displayed at a user computing device in response to the occurrence of an application launch or tutorial completion.

Different ad units may be compatible with different app event types. For example a second ad unit of the particular compound advertisement may be a video advertisement that offers to purchase virtual currency usable in the publisher app on behalf of the user if the user watches the video until completion. Advertiser computer may specify that the second ad unit may only be displayed at a user computing device in response to occurrence of a User Out of Virtual Currency monetization event.

Other ad units may be associated with all app event types. In an embodiment an ad unit is associated with all app event types by default. The associated app event types may be different only if an advertiser specifies a different set of acceptable app event types.

Advertisement specification may specify acceptable app event categories for one or more ad units. For example a particular ad unit may be geared to users which may be in a negative mood such as ad units intended to lift a user s spirit by granting him some reward while displaying a company logo or a product where the reward is usable within the publisher app or elsewhere. Advertiser computer may associate the particular ad unit with the app event category of negative to ensure that the particular ad unit displays in response to the occurrence of a negative monetization even in a publisher app. The negative category may comprise a plurality of different app events such as User Out of Funds or User Defeated. As another example a second ad unit may be high energy video that is more relatable to users in an enthusiastic mood. Advertiser computer may associate the second ad unit with the app event category of positive to ensure that the user s mood is positive at the time the second ad unit is displayed.

Ad unit which is the San Francisco video playback scene and ad unit which is the Boston running video play back scene are both associated with the app event category of positive. Ad unit which is the rain running video playback scene is associated with the app event category of negative. The advertiser of the New Running Shoes Intro Campaign compound ad may wish for ad units to match the mood of the user at the time the ad unit is displayed. The video of ad unit may depict a gloomy setting and thus the advertiser may wish for ad unit to display in response to a negative occurrence in a publisher app such as a user losing a game within the app. Similarly video of ad unit and may depict an upbeat setting and thus the advertiser may wish for ad units and to display in response to a positive occurrence in a publisher app such as a user winning a game within the app.

An advertisement specification for the compound advertisement may specify recipient constraints which are constraints upon the type of device upon which an ad unit may be displayed or upon the type of user associated with the device. Recipient constraints may include constraints on user age user gender user or device location the types of applications installed by the device or user in the past the types of applications recently accessed by the user or device device type technical capabilities of the device including computing power internet speed and operating version and other user or device attributes. For example ad unit is associated with a recipient constraint indicating that ad unit may only be delivered to devices associated with users who are determined to be between 16 and 65 years old. Ad unit is also associated with a recipient constraint indicating that ad unit may only be delivered to devices that have previously installed a fitness application. A location constraint may require the device to be located less than a threshold amount of distance away from any one of a plurality of locations. For example a particular ad unit may only be displayed to devices located within thirty 30 miles of a storefront associated with the advertiser.

An advertisement specification may specify constraints on environmental attributes for the time at which an ad unit is displayed. For example ad unit which is a pre lunch running scene is associated with a time constraint of 11 AM 2 PM and may not be displayed outside that time window. Another example environmental constraint is a location constraint. For example ad unit which comprises a San Francisco running scene is associated with a location constraint of San Francisco Bay and may only be displayed to devices located in the San Francisco Bay area. Another example of an environmental constraint is a constraint on the weather at the time at which the ad unit is displayed. For example ad delivery server computer may cause an ad unit depicting a rainy scene to display at a user computing device only at a time when it is raining at the location of the user computing device. Such constraints may allow advertisers to target ads to users that are target consumers of the advertisers and at the time at which they are best able to relate and thus be influenced by the advertisement.

The advertisement specification may specify at least one bid value for each ad unit. Different ad units of the same compound advertisement may be associated with different bid values. Ad delivery server computer may select an ad to display at a user computing device based at least in part on the bid values. Thus an advertiser may choose to associate higher bid values with preferred ad units. For example ad unit is associated with a bid value 0.05 and ad unit is associated with a bid value of 0.20. An advertiser may strategically assign such bid values to ensure that ad unit is displayed over ad unit if both ad units are eligible for display.

The bid value may represent a price to be paid by the advertiser to the ad delivery service operator associated with ad delivery server computer in response to the completion of an advertisement action associated with the ad. The particular advertisement action could vary according to different embodiments and depending on the agreement between the ad delivery system and the advertiser. In an embodiment the ad delivery system is paid for each time the advertisement is displayed. In other embodiments the ad delivery system is paid for each time a user clicks upon the advertisement or upon some form of conversion of the advertisement such as a user signing up for an offer identified within the advertisement or a user or downloading a software identified within with the advertisement.

In some embodiments the advertisement specification may associate different bid values with the same ad unit. The different bid values may be associated with different sequential dependencies and may only be applicable if the corresponding sequential dependency is satisfied. For example as indicated by bid values ad unit is associated with at least four different bid values depending on which sequential dependencies if any of the three optional sequential dependencies applicable to ad unit are satisfied. Bid value indicates that at least 0.05 will be paid for the completion of an advertisement action associated with ad unit at a particular user device if none of the advertisement actions associated with ad units and are previously completed at the particular user device. Bid value indicates that at least 0.50 will be paid for the completion of an advertisement action associated with ad unit at a particular user device if an advertisement action associated with ad unit was previously completed at the particular user device. Bid value indicates that at least 0.40 will be paid for the completion of an advertisement action associated with ad unit at a particular user device if an advertisement action associated with ad unit was previously completed at the particular user device. Bid value indicates that at least 0.45 will be paid for the completion of an advertisement action associated with ad unit at a particular user device if an advertisement action associated with ad unit was previously completed at the particular user device.

If two sequential dependencies are satisfied the applicable bid value may be the higher of the bid values associated with the two sequential dependencies. For example if ad unit is displayed at a particular user device after both ad units and are displayed at the particular user device the applicable bid value may be 0.50 because it is the higher of the two amounts associated with the two sequential dependencies.

In some embodiments a sequential dependency may specify that an ad unit is sequentially dependent upon a sequence of ad units. For example an advertiser may agree to pay a first bid value if ad unit is displayed after ad unit was displayed and if ad unit was displayed after ad unit was displayed. The advertiser may agree to pay a second different bid value if ad unit is displayed after ad unit was displayed and if ad unit was displayed after ad unit was displayed.

An advertiser may strategically associate different bid values with different ad units where the ad units are each associated with different constraints. The advertiser may also strategically associate different bid values with the same ad unit depending on which if any of the different associated sequential dependencies are satisfied. For example by pricing bid values and associating constraints strategically ad advertiser may cause certain ad units to only be displayed to higher value users and in higher value circumstances or may pay a greater amount for the display of the certain ad unit when it is displayed to the higher value users in the higher value circumstances. For example a circumstance where the user has previously seen two other ad units of the same compound may be considered a high value circumstance. A user within a very small target demographic may also be considered a high value user.

As one example the bid value associated with the display of ad unit at a device after a particular advertisement action associated with has been completed at the device is higher than the bid value associated with the display of ad unit at a device when no such sequential dependency has been satisfied. The opportunity to display the Shoe Store Potential Purchase ad of ad unit to a user that has viewed the Rain Running Video Playback ad of ad unit and one of the other ads upon which ad unit is sequentially dependent may be considered a high value circumstance by an advertiser. Thus the advertiser may agree to pay a higher bid value to display ad unit to a user in such a circumstance than to display to a user who has not seen the prior ad units in the sequence.

Viewing a sequence of ad units pertaining to the same topic creates a bigger impact on the viewer than viewing one individual advertisement pertaining to the topic. By allowing the delivery of these advertisements to also target other attributes such as the occurrence of particular app events environmental attributes and recipient attributes the ad units may also be more relatable to the viewer. An ad delivery system that allows advertisers to strategically purchase the opportunity to tell such an advertisement story offers a great benefit to advertisers.

An ad delivery system that allows advertiser to specify constraints sequential dependencies and varied bid values for different ad units of a single compound advertisement also benefits ad delivery service operators because of the higher payment amounts advertisers may be willing to pay for such high value ad delivery opportunities.

In an embodiment the advertisement specification specifies a base bid value and a bonus bid value for each ad unit. The bonus bid value may be specified in the form of a reserve value and the bonus bid value may be determined by adding the reserve value to the base bid value. For example a particular ad unit may be associated with a base bid value of 0.55 and with a reserve value of 0.50. Thus the bonus bid value associated with ad unit may be the sum of the reserve value and the base bid value which is 1.05. In some embodiments if no bonus bid value is specified for an ad unit ad deliver server computer considers the bonus bid value to be the same as the base bid value.

In response to receiving notification of the occurrence of a monetization event at a publisher application on a user computing device ad delivery server computer may select an ad unit for display from a plurality of different ad units provided by a plurality of different advertisers based in part on the bid values associated with the ad units. The bonus bid value of a particular ad unit may be considered if another ad unit has a base bid value that exceeds the base bid value of the particular ad unit.

In some embodiments an advertiser specifies different reserve values for different ad units of a compound advertisement. In other embodiments a single reserve value is specified for the entire compound ad unit which is applicable to each ad unit of the compound advertisement. For example a particular reserve value may apply to all the ad units of a compound advertisement.

Prior to the display of interface a publisher may have provided a specification for the New Shoes Intro Campaign compound ad specifying that the compound ad comprises six ad units including ad unit titled Pre Morning Running ad unit titled San Francisco Running and ad unit titled Rain Running. Media type indicator indicates that ad unit is a video advertisement.

Bid value is associated with a particular sequential dependency of ad unit upon a sequence of ad units comprising ad unit followed by ad unit as indicated by sequential dependency indicators . If the particular sequential dependency is satisfied the associated advertiser may be granted bid value of 0.55 for the completion of a particular advertisement action associated with ad unit . For example if ad unit is displayed at a user device after ad unit is displayed at the user device and if ad unit is displayed at the user device after ad unit is displayed at the user device bid value may apply to the display of ad unit at the user device.

Reserve value of 0.50 may be applicable to all ad units in the compound ad. In other embodiments different ad units of a compound ad may be associated with different reserve values.

Interface also provides information regarding the performance of the ad units in the compound advertisement. CVR value indicates the percentage of times the display of ad unit results in a conversion of the ad unit. The action that constitutes a conversion of an ad unit may vary according to different embodiments but may be for example a user purchasing an item via a link or other information provided in ad unit signing up for information via ad unit or downloading an item information via ad unit . CTR value indicates the percentage of times the display of ad unit results in a click upon the ad. Conversion amount indicates the total number of times the display of ad unit resulted in a conversion. Spend amount indicates the total amount spent for advertisement actions relating to ad unit after the advertisement action relating to ad unit was completed following the completion of advertisement action relating to ad unit . The advertisement action associated with each of the ad units may be the display of the associated ad unit or may be for some or all of the ad units some further action such as a user clicking upon the ad unit.

In an embodiment the specification for an entire compound advertisement may be specified before any of the ad units of the compound advertisement are displayed. The specification for the compound advertisement may include different bid values different constraints and different sequential dependencies for each ad unit. In some embodiments the entire specification may be specified in a single transaction.

Interface displays example constraints upon an ad unit and options for modifying the constraints. In an embodiment interfaces and are shown together on a single screen and the options specified using interface may apply to the ad units selected in interface using checkboxes such as checkbox .

Field of interface indicates that selected ad unit s may only be displayed at user computing devices located in San Francisco. Field indicates an environmental constraint that the selected ad unit s may only be displayed at a user computing device if the weather is sunny at the location of the user computing device. Field indicates a particular sequential dependency of the selected ad unit upon a second ad unit titled Pre Morning Run. Field indicates the amount of users within the ad delivery system that are eligible to receive the selected ad unit s based on constraints specified for the selected ad unit s . The values in Fields may indicate advertiser input and the value in Field may be calculated by the advertisement delivery server computer based on the advertiser inputs.

By interacting with interface using advertiser computer an advertiser may edit each of the illustrated constraints.

An advertiser may change various attributes of the compound advertisement such as sequential dependencies bid values and or constraints by interacting with the web console. Such changes may be made without publishers needing to modify the logic of their apps or having to redeploy their aps.

At block ad delivery server computer determines that a particular monetization event has occurred in a particular publisher application executing on a particular user computing device.

The particular publisher application may be publisher app executing upon user computing device . In accordance with SDK logic publisher app may send a notification to ad delivery server computer each time a monetization event occurs in publisher app that identifies the particular monetization event that occurred.

At block ad delivery server computer identifies a set of ad unit eligible for display at the particular user computing device in response to an occurrence of the particular monetization event. The monetization event notification may identify the user computing device at which the monetization event occurred the type of monetization event that occurred and or the publisher app in which the monetization event occurred.

In one embodiment ad delivery server computer uses a publisher app identifier and a monetization event identifier to locate the publisher specification information applicable to the particular monetization event from the store of specification information in data repository . The publisher specification information may include information identifying which app events are monetization events. Such information may be used to verify that an ad unit should be displayed in response to the incoming app event notification is to trigger. The publisher specification information may additionally include app event category information minimum bid information and or ad constraints.

Ad delivery server computer may determine a preliminary set of ad units that includes different ad units registered by the different advertisers and belonging to different advertisements. Some of the ad units may be ad units that do not belong to any compound advertisement and others may be ad units of a compound advertisement.

At block ad delivery server computer filters out all ads units that are not associated with the app event type of the particular monetization event. For example if the monetization event that occurred in publisher app an Applicant Launch app event ad delivery server computer may filter out any ad units for which the advertiser indicated a set of acceptable app events that is not associated with the Applicant Launch app event.

In embodiments where advertiser specifications specify acceptable app event categories for one or more ad units ad delivery server computer may also filter out any ad units that are not associated with an app event category to which the particular monetization event belongs.

At block ad delivery server computer filters out all ads units for which an applicable sequential dependency is not satisfied. In some embodiments some sequential dependencies may be optional and others may be mandatory. In such an embodiment ad unit may only be eliminated if a mandatory sequential dependency is not satisfied.

In an embodiment ad delivery server computer determines whether a sequential dependency of a first ad unit upon one or more ad units is satisfied by determining whether advertisement actions associated with the one or more units were performed at the particular user computing device upon which the monetization event occurred. For example if a particular sequential dependency for a first ad unit indicates that the ad unit is only to be displayed if a second ad unit was displayed ad delivery server computer may determine whether the second ad unit was previously displayed at the particular user computing device. Determining whether the second ad unit was previously displayed at the particular user computing device may comprise determining whether a message configured to cause display of the second ad unit at the particular user computing device was previously sent to the particular user computing device. Ad delivery history may store records of previously sent messages configured to cause display of ad units each of which record may identify the user computing device to which the message was sent and which ad unit the message was configured to cause display of.

In an embodiment the advertisement action associated with an ad unit may be something other than the display of the ad unit. For example a sequential dependency may indicate that a first unit is only to be displayed at a user computing device if a second ad unit was previously displayed at the user computing device and also clicked upon or otherwise selected during display by the user of the computing device. In such an embodiment a notification may be sent to ad delivery server computer from the user computing device if an ad unit associated with ad delivery server computer is clicked upon at the user computing device. Records of which ad units were clicked upon by which devices may be maintained in data repository and the history may be accessed to determine if one or more sequential dependencies are satisfied.

In some embodiment the actions associated with the sequential dependency must have all been performed at the particular user computing device upon which the monetization event occurred for the sequential dependency to be satisfied. In other embodiments the sequential dependency may be satisfied if the actions associated with the sequential dependency were performed at different user computing devices as long as the different devices were each associated with the same user. For example ad delivery server computer may determine that a message configured to cause display of a first ad unit of a compound ad was sent to a smartphone associated with a particular user in the morning. In the afternoon ad delivery server computer may receive a notification from a laptop device associated with the same particular user indicating the occurrence of a monetization event at the laptop device. In response ad delivery server computer may send a message configured to cause delivery of a second ad unit of the compound ad to the laptop device where the second ad unit is associated with a mandatory sequential dependency of the second ad unit upon the first ad unit.

At block ad delivery server computer filters out all ads units that do not equal or exceed the minimum bid value or ad unit format requirements associated with the particular monetization event. A publisher of publisher app may have specified a minimum bid value for the particular monetization event that occurred at publisher app and ad delivery server computer may eliminate from consideration any ad units whose bid value does not equal or exceed the minimum bid value. In some embodiments advertisers specify both base bid values and bonus bid values. If the base bid value of an ad unit does not equal or exceed the minimum bid value associated with the monetization event and the bonus bid value does ad delivery server computer may not filter out the ad unit. Instead ad delivery server computer may use the bonus bid value as both the base bid value and bonus bid value during determination of the applicable payment price if the ad unit is subsequently selected for display.

A publisher of publisher app may have associated particular ad unit format constraint s with the type of particular monetization event that occurred. For example the publisher may have specified that the particular monetization event may only trigger the display of static images that are displayed for less than five 5 seconds and occupy less than half the screen. Ad delivery server computer may eliminate from consideration any ad units whose format does not comply with those constraints.

At block ad delivery server computer filters out all ads units for which associated recipient constraints are not satisfied. Recipient constraints are constraints associated with ad units which may have been specified by the advertiser of the ad unit which may limit the type of user computing device at which the ad unit may be shown based on information about the user computing device or a user associated with the user computing device.

Ad delivery server computer may determine information about the user computing device at which the monetization event occurred and the associated user in any of a plurality of different ways.

In one embodiment user computing devices such as user computing device may periodically send device or user information to ad delivery server computer either within the notification messages notifying ad delivery server computer of a monetization event occurrence or separately. In some embodiments SDK logic within publisher app may cause such information to be sent to ad delivery server computer from user computing device . For example a notification message sent from user computing device may identify the current location of user computing device or an operating system of the user computing device .

In some embodiments ad delivery server computer may determine which publisher applications executed on a particular user computing device and the time at which they executed based on notifications received from the publisher applications. Ad delivery server computer may also or instead be associated with an ad referral system which may track one or more applications that have been downloaded by user computing device or at a different device by a user associated with user computing device . One or more applications referred by the ad referral system may notify the ad referral system when certain events in the application occur such as the launching of the application. Ad delivery server computer may access such device and user information collected by the ad referral system to determine information device activity information such as applications recently downloaded or executed at a particular device.

Some user or device information may be inferred based on other information known about the device or users. For example ad delivery server computer may determine that the particular user computing device downloads a category of apps that is commonly downloaded by users in the age group of 18 25 and may thus infer that the user associated with the user computing device is in the 18 25 age range. The gender of a user associated with a user computing device may also be inferred based upon the types of applications used or downloaded by the user computing device.

Some user or device information may be provided during a user registration process with the ad delivery system. For example a user may input their zip code or age when creating an account with the ad delivery system.

Ad delivery server computer may determine a device identifier identifying the computing device at which the monetization event occurred. In one embodiment the monetization event notification sent to the ad delivery server computer notifying the server about the occurrence of a monetization event may include the device identifier identifying the device at which the event occurred. In some embodiments ad delivery server computer may use the device identifier to look up information about the particular user computing device or a user associated with the user computing device by accessing a database of collected or inferred information about the device or a user associated with the device.

Information may be inferred about a user associated with the particular user computing device based on information collected about a different user computing device that is known to be associated with the particular user. For example a user may be known to be associated with both a tablet device and a mobile phone device. Demographic information about the user may be inferred based on information received from the tablet device about applications used on the tablet device. Such user demographic information may be used to select an ad unit for display at the mobile phone device associated with the same user. In one embodiment associations between users and devices may be learned from information provided by the user during an account registration process. For example the user may identify various devices to ad delivery server computer for association with the user s account.

At block ad delivery server computer filters out all ad units for which associated environmental attribute constraints are not satisfied. Environmental attribute such as time and weather may be determined based in part on other known information about the particular user computing device or an associated user such as a location of the user computing device or user. For example the current weather at the location of the user computing device may be determined by first determining the location of the user computing device and providing the location information to third party weather serve to determine the weather at the location.

Ad delivery server computer may determine acceptable app event types sequential dependencies minimum bid values and or constraints associated with each ad unit in the preliminary set by accessing ad specifications in data repository .

In some embodiments ad delivery server computer may initially consider at least two ad units from the same compound ad unit for display at a user computing device. One or more of the at least two ad units may be filtered out due to a criteria described above such as recipient constraints environmental constraints minimum bid values and monetization event type limitations. For example ad units and may both be included in the preliminary set of available ad units but ad unit may be filtered out based on a determination that the particular user computing device is not located in Boston.

At block ad delivery server computer selects a particular ad unit for display at a particular user computing device from the set of eligible ad units based in part on bid discrimination.

At block ad delivery server computer determines an estimated base earnings per impression value for each ad unit in the set of eligible ad units based on base bid values. In one embodiment the estimated base earnings per impression value for an ad unit is determined by adjusting the base value for an ad unit with the likelihood that the display of the ad unit will result in earnings for the ad delivery system.

The likelihood that the display of the ad unit will result in earnings for the ad delivery system may be determined based in part on any combination of a plurality of factors. In some embodiments estimated base earnings per impression value may be determined based in part on the advertisement action that must be completed for the display to result in earning. For example the advertisement action that must be completed for the display to result in an earning for a display of a first ad unit may be that the user must click on the ad unit. The advertisement action that must be completed for the display to result in an earning for a display of a second ad unit may be that the user must provide an email address and sign up for a mailing list by interacting with the second ad unit. Although the first ad unit and the second ad unit may have the same base bid value the estimated base earnings per impression value for the first ad unit may be higher because the user may be more likely to perform the advertisement action associated with the first ad unit than the second ad unit.

The likelihood that the display of the ad unit will result in earnings for the ad delivery system may additionally or instead be determined based in part on the media format of the ad the type s of devices users and environments being targeted by the ad percentage of previous ad units by the advertiser that resulted in earnings or any combination thereof. For example ad delivery server computer may have determined that the 40 50 year old age group is more likely to click on an ad unit than the 25 40 year old age group and may thus adjust base bid values for the two groups differently.

At block ad delivery server computer identifies an ad unit with the highest base estimated earnings per impression value.

At block ad delivery server computer determines an estimated bonus earnings per impression value for each ad unit in the set of eligible ad units based on bonus bid values. An estimated base earnings per impression value for an ad unit may be determined by adjusting the bonus bid value for an ad unit by the likelihood that the display of the ad unit will result in earnings for the ad delivery system. Ad delivery server computer may determine the likelihood that the display of the ad unit will result in earnings for the ad delivery system using one or more of the approaches described above with respect to block .

In some embodiments if the advertiser of an ad unit does not specify a reserve or bonus bid value that is different from a base bid value ad delivery computer may consider the bonus bid value to be the same as the base bid value.

At block ad delivery server computer identifies an ad unit with the highest bonus estimated earnings per impression value.

At block ad delivery server computer determines if the ad unit with the highest base estimated earnings per impression value is the same ad unit as the ad unit with the highest bonus estimated earnings per impression value. If the two ad units are the same particular ad unit the process proceeds to block and ad delivery server computer selects the particular ad unit as the ad unit to display. That is the particular ad unit that has both the highest base estimated earnings per impression value and the highest bonus estimated earnings per impression value is selected as the ad unit to display.

If the ad unit with the highest base estimated earnings per impression value is not the same ad unit as the ad unit with the highest bonus estimated earnings per impression value the process proceeds to block . At block ad delivery system computer selects the ad unit with the highest bonus estimated earnings per impression value as the ad unit to display.

At block if the ad unit with the highest base estimated earnings per impression value is the same ad unit as the ad unit with the highest bonus estimated earnings per impression value ad delivery server computer selects the base bid value associated with the selected ad unit as the applicable payment price.

At block if the ad unit with the highest base estimated earnings per impression value is not the same ad unit as the ad unit with the highest bonus estimated earning s per impression value ad delivery server computer selects an applicable payment price for the selected ad unit based on the bonus bid value associated with the selected ad unit. In some embodiments the applicable payment price is the bonus bid value associated with the selected ad unit. In another embodiment the applicable payment price may also be based on the bid value of the ad unit with the second highest bonus bid value from the set of eligible ad units. For example the applicable payment price may be the bonus bid value of the ad unit with the second highest bonus bid value from the set of eligible ad units plus an additional nominal amount.

Using the approach illustrated in the advertisement unit with the highest bonus bid value is selected as the ad unit to display. In some embodiments the applicable payment price for the selected ad unit depends in part on whether the selected ad unit also had the highest base bid value.

An ad delivery system that employs an approach such as the approach illustrated in may be more appealing to advertisers than traditional approaches. If the opportunity to present an ad unit during the circumstance specified by the advertiser specified constraints is one that an advertiser considers highly valuable he may freely associate a high bonus value with such an ad unit. For example a particular ad unit may that only be eligible for display if two other related ad units of the compound advertisement have already been displayed and if the user associated with the receiving device is determined to be within a small highly targeted user demographic. The advertiser may consider the opportunity to present the ad unit in a circumstance that satisfies all those constraints as highly valuable because such an opportunity may be rare likely to be profitable or for other reasons. By associating a high bonus bid value the advertiser can ensure a higher likelihood that the ad unit would be selected for delivery to the user. At the same time by associating a lower base bid value with the same ad unit the advertiser may ensure that the applicable bid value is unnecessarily high because the bonus bid value may only be considered the applicable bid value if the base bid value is too low.

In other embodiments the bid values may be considered in some other way during the selection of an ad unit based on bid discrimination. For example ad delivery server computer may use base bid values and bonus bid values in choosing between the various eligible ad units rather than determining estimated earnings per impression values for ad units based on the base and bonus bid values associated with the ad units.

At block ad delivery server computer causes display of the particular ad unit at the particular user computing device. Ad delivery server computer may cause display of the particular ad unit at a particular user computing device such as user computing device by sending an electronic digital message to user computing device where the message is configured to cause display of the particular ad unit at the particular user computing device.

Publisher app may cause the particular ad unit to display at user computing device in response to receiving the electronic digital message. In an embodiment SDK logic interprets the received electronic digital message and in response causes display of the particular ad unit.

In some embodiments the ad unit may be capable of being clicked upon or interacted with. In such an embodiment user computing device may send indications of user interactions with the ad unit to ad delivery computer server .

Ad delivery server computer may direct advertisements to apps that comply with an application programming interface API or software development kit SDK defined by the advertisement delivery service operator.

SDK logic may be statically linked or dynamically linked to the rest of the code of publisher app at the time that a developer prepares production versions of executables of the publisher app. Consequently at runtime SDK logic may run as native code in user computing device . However the source code for SDK logic may be defined by the owner or operator of ad delivery server computer and may not be known to the developer author or publisher of publisher app except possibly with respect to public interfaces or APIs that the owner or operator of the server computer elects to publish or disclose.

In one embodiment SDK logic comprises one or more public interfaces or APIs configured to enable a developer of publisher app to map one or more app events of publisher app to logic included in SDK logic . In this context an app event may include any processing event step or programmatic action that may occur during execution of publisher app . For example if publisher app is a game app an app event may represent a processing event that occurs during execution of publisher app such as a user opening an in game menu the user beginning a particular level of the game or the user ending a current game session. In an embodiment a developer of publisher app may identify in the logic of publisher app one or more particular app events of publisher app and cause the logic of publisher app to interact with SDK logic in response to an occurrence of the particular app events. For example a developer may include a code segment or other logic in association with each of the particular app events that causes publisher app to trigger SDK logic when a particular app event occurs during execution of publisher app .

SDK logic may further include logic enabling a developer of publisher app to specify any number of custom app event types. For example an app developer may identify one or more app event types the publisher wants to monetize but that are different from any of the pre defined event types. In an embodiment a developer of publisher app may define a custom app event type using SDK logic by providing a label for the custom app event type and mapping the custom app event type to a custom or pre defined app event category. The label provided for the custom app event type may be used for display and configuration of the custom app event types with the advertising network service. For example when an advertiser selects one or more app events types to associate with a particular ad units as acceptable app event types for triggering the display of the particular ad unit the label provided for the custom app event type may be displayed as an identifier of a selectable app event type in the interface used by the advertiser.

The same label may be used during the registration of publisher app to identify registration information relating to the monetization event such as minimum bid value for the monetization event acceptable ad unit formats for the monetization event or an app event category to which the monetization event belongs.

The label may be included in the notifications of monetization events sent from SDK logic to ad delivery server computer as an identifier of the monetization event. In some embodiments ad delivery server computer may use the label at least in part to look up the specification information applicable to the monetization event.

Although separate embodiments are discussed herein any combination of embodiments and or partial embodiments discussed herein may be combined to form further embodiments.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis for example x and a second axis for example y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

