---

title: Providing automated initial and final payment for an activity based on determining the location of an activity participant's mobile communication device
abstract: Systems, methods and computer programs provide for automated initial and final payment for an activity based on determining the location of an activity participant's mobile communication device. The described embodiments provide for the activity participant to automatically pay for the activity based on their presence at the activity location and agreement to participate. As such, the need to check-in and/or pay for the activity at a conventional payment counter is eliminated. Further, the invention provides for an automatic final payment to be made at the conclusion of the activity as opposed to having to pre-pay for the activity prior to conducting the activity. By remitting final payment at the completion of the activity, activity pricing can be accurately determined based on the amount and/or time of the activity in which the activity participant participated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744968&OS=08744968&RS=08744968
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08744968
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
In general embodiments herein disclosed relate to commerce and more specifically providing automated payment for an activity based on determining location of the activity participant s mobile communication device.

Both activity providers and activity participants desire efficient and accurate means for paying for activities. For example golfers usually must pay in advance at a clubhouse for a round of golf. However in this scenario the golfer may be subjected to a long line at the clubhouse counter prior to paying for their round of golf. In addition paying in advance is somewhat problematic if the golfer ultimately decides while playing that they would prefer to less than a full round e.g. nine holes as opposed to eighteen holes or more than one round e.g. thirty six holes as opposed to eighteen holes . Since the golfer pays in advance if he or she decides to play less than a full round they are being overcharged for the activity provided. In the event they choose to play more than one round the golfer either needs to pay again at the clubhouse a time consuming endeavor or forego paying again at the expense of the golf course.

Other activities which are charged on a time rate basis such as an hourly rate or the like may not provide the activity participant many options if they desire to participant in an activity for less time than the time rate allows e.g. participate for 45 minutes while being charged for a full hour or participant for portions of time periods e.g. participate for 1.25 hours while being charged for a full two hours . In the event that the activity provider does provide for charging participants based on prorated time periods difficulty may exist in accurately tracking the time of the participants especially during periods of high activity. Such time rate charging for activities often results in disputes between the activity provider and the participant over how the exact amount of time participated. While the participant may have enjoyed the activity if they ultimately believe that they were charged an excessive rate for the activity they are unlikely to return and participant in the activity again.

Therefore a need exists to create new ways for activity providers to allow activity participants to pay for activities. The desired systems and methodologies should allow for automated payment that circumvents the need for the activity participant to wait in line to make payment. In addition the desired systems and methodologies should eliminate the need to pay for the entire activity in advance and should provide for an accurate and automated assessment of how much of the activity the participant participated in so that the participant is ultimately charged accurately for the activity.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for automated initial and final payment for an activity based on determining the location of an activity participant s mobile communication device. The described embodiments provide for the activity participant to automatically pay for the activity based on their presence at the activity location and agreement to participate. As such the need to check in and or pay for the activity at a conventional payment counter is eliminated. Further the invention provides for an automatic final payment to be made at the conclusion of the activity as opposed to having to pre pay for the activity prior to conducting the activity. By remitting final payment at the completion of the activity activity pricing can be accurately determined based on the amount and or time of the activity in which the activity participant participated.

In this regard embodiments of the present invention provide for a mobile communication device equipped with location determining mechanisms such as a Global Positioning System GPS device to recognize that the device is located at an activity providing location i.e. the check in point or payment point for participating in an activity . Such location recognition prompts the mobile communication device to generate an alert asking the participant if they desire to participate in the activity. If an affirmative response is received to the query the activity participant participant is asked to submit an initial payment which may be a down payment or authorization to subsequently charge an account the full payment. The mobile device further recognizes when the activity participant departs a predetermined designated activity area i.e. the golf course playing facility field or the like and once departed automatically remits a final payment for the activity such that the initial payment in combination with the final payment result in payment in full for the activity.

In specific embodiments of the invention the mobile communication device is able to calculate the amount due for the activity in the event participation in the activity is charged on a time based rate. In such embodiments of the invention the mobile communication device identifies the start time as the time the device entered into the predetermined designated activity area and the stop time as the time the device exits the predetermined designated activity area. Thus based on a known predetermined activity rate e.g. x dollars hour the amount due can be automatically determined and remitted to the activity participant s payment account. In other specific embodiments of the invention the mobile device is able to calculate the amount due for the activity in the event participation in the activity is charged on a level completed basis e.g. charged based on the number of golf holes completed or the like . In such embodiments of the invention the mobile communication device recognizes the location at which the activity participant departed from the predetermined designated activity area and the departure location and in some embodiments the time of the departure is evident of how much of the activity the participant completed e.g. which hole on a golf course the participant finished up on .

An apparatus for a participant to pay for participation in an activity provided by an activity provider defines first embodiments of the invention. The apparatus comprises a mobile communication device including a computing platform having a processor a memory in communication with the processor and a location determining device in communication with the processor. The apparatus further includes an activity payment application stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to implement the location determining device to determine a present location and identify the present location as an activity site at which the participant may conduct an activity requiring payment and in response to identifying the present location as the activity site generate and communicate to a user interface on the mobile communication device a first alert that is configured to query the participant to participate in the activity offered at the activity site. The activity payment application is further configured to in response to the participant agreeing to participate in the activity request that the participant submit an initial payment and receive a participant input that authorizes payment of the initial payment using a participant designated payment account wherein receipt of the initial payment by the activity provider authorizes the participant to participate in the activity. The activity payment application is further configured to implement the location determining device to determine that the participant departed a predetermined area in which the activity occurs and in response to determining that the participant has departed the predetermined area automatically remit from the payment account to the activity provider a final payment for the activity.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the activity payment application is further configured to determine a first time at which the participant initiates the activity and a second time at which the participant finishes the activity wherein the first and second times are determined based on the participant entering the predetermined area at the first time and departing the predetermined area at the second time. In such embodiments of the apparatus the activity payment application is further configured to determine an amount for the final payment wherein the amount is determined based on the first and second times and a predetermined time based activity rate.

In further specific embodiments of the apparatus the activity payment application is further configured to determine a departure location at which the participant departed the predetermined area wherein the departure location indicates a level of the activity that the participant completed. In such embodiments of the apparatus the activity payment application is further configured to determine an amount for the final payment wherein the amount is determined based on the level of the activity that the participant completed and a level completed based activity rate.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the activity payment application is further configured to in response to automatically remitting the final payment generate and communicate to the participant a payment receipt that includes an amount paid for the activity.

In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus the activity payment application is further configured to implement the location determining device to determine that the participant is located within the predetermined area and in response to determining that the participant is located within the predetermined area generate and communicate one or more second alerts wherein the second alert includes a current payment amount for the activity. In such embodiments of the apparatus the activity payment application may be further configured to determine the current payment amount based on a first time at which the participant initiated the activity the current time and a predetermined time based activity rate. While in other embodiments of the apparatus the activity payment application may be further configured to implement the location determining device to determine a current location of the mobile communication device wherein the current location indicates a level of the activity that the participant has currently completed and determine the current payment amount based on the level of the activity that the participant has currently completed and a level completed based activity rate.

A method for a participant to pay for participation in an activity provided by an activity provider defines second embodiments of the invention. The method includes determining by a mobile communication device a present location as an activity site at which the participant in possession of the mobile communication device may conduct an activity requiring payment. The method further includes in response to determining the present location as the activity site generating and communicating to a user interface on the mobile communication device a first alert that is configured to query the participant to participate in the activity offered at the activity site and in response to the participant agreeing to participate in the activity request that the participant submit an initial payment. In addition the method includes receiving by the mobile communication device a participant input that authorizes payment of the initial payment using a participant designated payment account wherein receipt of the initial payment by the activity provider authorizes the participant to participate in the activity. Additionally the method includes determining by the mobile communication device that the participant in possession of the mobile communication device has departed a predetermined area in which the activity occurs and in response to determining that the participant has departed the predetermined area automatically remitting from the payment account to the activity provider a final payment for the activity.

In specific embodiments of the method determining that the participant has departed the predetermined area further includes determining by a computing device a first time at which the participant initiates the activity and a second time at which the participant finishes the activity wherein the first and second times are determined based on the participant in possession of the mobile communication device entering the predetermined area at the first time and departing the predetermined area at the second time. In such embodiments the method may further include determining by a computing device an amount for the final payment wherein the amount is determined based on the first and second times and a predetermined time based activity rate.

In still further embodiments of the method determining that the participant has departed the predetermined area further includes determining by a computing device a departure location at which the participant departed the predetermined area wherein the departure location indicates a level of the activity that the participant completed. In such embodiments the method may further include determining an amount for the final payment wherein the amount is determined based on the level of the activity that the participant completed and a level completed based activity rate.

In other specific embodiments the method includes in response to automatically remitting the final payment generating and communicating to the participant a payment receipt that includes an amount paid for the activity.

In further specific embodiments the method includes generating and communicating to the mobile communication device one or more second alerts while the participant in possession of the mobile communication device is located within the predetermined area wherein the second alert includes a current payment amount for the activity. In such embodiments the method may further include determining by a computing device the current payment amount based on a first time at which the participant initiated the activity the current time and predetermined time based activity rate. While in other such embodiments the method may include determining by a computing device the current payment amount based on a current location of the participant in possession of the mobile communication device and a level completed based activity rate wherein the current location indicates the level of the activity that the participant has currently completed.

A computer program product including a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable instructions defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer executable instructions cause a computer to implement the steps of determining a present location as an activity site at which a participant may conduct an activity requiring payment and in response to determining the present location as the activity site generating and communicating a first alert that is configured to query the participant to participate in the activity offered at the activity site. Further the computer executable instructions cause the computer to implement the steps of in response to the participant agreeing to participate in the activity requesting that the participant submit an initial payment wherein the initial payment is less than a full payment required for the activity and receiving a participant input that authorizes payment of the initial payment using a participant designated payment account wherein receipt of the initial payment by an activity provider authorizes the participant to participate in the activity. In addition the computer executable instructions cause the computer to implement the steps of determining that the participant has departed a predetermined area in which the activity occurs and in response to determining that the participant has departed the predetermined area automatically remitting a final payment for the activity.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer products are described in more detail below that provide for automated initial and final payment for an activity based on determining the location of an activity participant s mobile communication device. The described embodiments provide for the activity participant to automatically pay for the activity based on their presence at the activity location and agreement to participate. As such the need to check in and or pay for the activity at a conventional payment counter is eliminated. Further the invention provides for an automatic final payment to be made at the conclusion of the activity as opposed to having to pre pay for the activity prior to conducting the activity. By remitting final payment at the completion of the activity activity pricing can be accurately determined based on the amount and or time of the activity in which the activity participant participated.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for provide for automated initial and final payment for an activity based on determining the location of an activity participant s mobile communication device. The described embodiments provide for the activity participant to automatically pay for the activity based on their presence at the activity location and agreement to participate. As such the need to check in and or pay for the activity at a conventional payment counter is eliminated. Further the invention provides for an automatic final payment to be made at the conclusion of the activity as opposed to having to pre pay for the activity prior to conducting the activity. By remitting final payment at the completion of the activity activity pricing can be accurately determined based on the amount and or time of the activity in which the activity participant participated.

In this regard embodiments of the present invention provide for a mobile communication device equipped with location determining mechanisms such as a Global Positioning System GPS device to recognize that the device is located at an activity providing location i.e. the check in point or payment point for participating in an activity . The activity providing location or activity check in point is geo fenced for the purpose of the mobile communication device being able to recognize that it is present at an activity providing location. Geo fencing which is well known in the art is a virtual perimeter around an actual geographic area. Geo fencing allows a device equipped with location determining means to recognize its presence in the geo fenced region and to receive notifications alerts signifying the device s presence in the area region. In the present invention such location recognition prompts the mobile communication device to generate an alert asking the participant if they desire to participate in the activity. If an affirmative response is received to the query the activity participant participant is asked to submit an initial payment which may be a down payment or authorization to subsequently charge an account the full payment. The mobile device further recognizes when the activity participant departs a predetermined designated activity area i.e. the golf course playing facility field or the like and once departed automatically remits a final payment for the activity such that the initial payment in combination with the final payment result in payment in full for the activity.

In specific embodiments of the invention the mobile communication device is able to calculate the amount due for the activity in the event participation in the activity is charged on a time based rate. In such embodiments of the invention the mobile communication device identifies the start time as the time the device entered into the predetermined designated activity area and the stop time as the time the device exits the predetermined designated activity area. Thus based on a known predetermined activity rate e.g. x dollars hour the amount due can be automatically determined and remitted to the activity participant s payment account. In other specific embodiments of the invention the mobile device is able to calculate the amount due for the activity in the event participation in the activity is charged on a level completed basis e.g. charged based on the number of golf holes completed or the like . In such embodiments of the invention the mobile communication device recognizes the location at which the activity participant departed from the predetermined designated activity area and the departure location and in some embodiments the time of the departure is evident of how much of the activity the participant completed e.g. which hole on a golf course the participant finished up on .

The mobile communication device includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory . The memory stores activity payment application that is configured to provide automated payment for an activity based on determining location of the activity participant i.e. user of the mobile communication device . The activity payment application may be specific to one activity site such as a specific golf course frequented by the participant or the application may be configured to apply to various different activity sites offering various different activities. The activities sites associated with the activity payment application provide for automated payment of their respective activity based on determining location of the activity participant.

The application is configured to determine that the present location of the mobile communication device in possession of the participant is an activity site at which the participant may conduct an activity requiring a payment. Examples of activity sites include but are not limited to golf courses tennis racquetball facilities bowling alleys and the like. It should be evident that the activity sites listed are not intended to be exclusive and that any site at which an activity requiring payment can be conducted or performed by a participant is included within the inventive concepts herein disclosed. For example the participant may be present at a golf course clubhouse where payment for golf course green fees typically occurs.

In specific embodiments of the invention the application is configured to determine the present location through implementation of a location determining device such as a Global Positioning System GPS device disposed within the mobile communication device and map the present location to a known activity site . In other embodiments of the invention the application or the mobile communication device absent the application may be configured to capture computer readable code such as a Quick Response QR code displayed at the activity site. The computer readable code when read by the mobile communication device indicates that the present location of the participant is an activity site .

In response to determining that the present location is an activity site the activity payment application will generate and communicate an activity alert to a user interface such as a display on the mobile communication device . The alert is configured to query the participant as to their desire to participate in the activity offered by the activity site i.e. present an activity offer . The activity offer may include activity pricing and any activity pricing options. In the event that the participant has previously made a reservation for the activity e.g. a golf course tee time reservation or the like the alert may include a reservation reminder as opposed to an activity offer . In response to the participant agreeing to participate in the activity or acknowledging the reservation the alert is further configured to request initial payment from the participant. While the activity offer and request for initial payment are shown and described as occurring within activity alert in practice separate alerts may be generated and communicated for presenting the activity offer and the initial payment request .

It should be noted that the initial payment is less than the full amount due for activity participation. In specific embodiments the initial payment as defined herein may include a minimal down payment or merely authorization to subsequently charge a participant designated payment account the participant the full amount for activity participation at the conclusion of the activity. For example if the activity is golfing the initial payment may be for golf cart or a portion of the greens fees or if the activity is bowling the initial payment may be for the bowling shoe rental.

Thus the activity payment application is configured to receive the initial payment authorization that includes the participant chosen payment account such as a debit or credit account or the like. The participant may be required to input the payment account information or the application may store the participant s previously configured payment account information. Authorization of the initial payment authorization by the activity site through the financial institution associated with the participant designated payment account results in the participant being granted activity participation authorization . The activity participation authorization may be configured as some form of communicated message such as an alert a Short Message Service SMS text message an email or the like and may include a code such as a bar code or the like which when read by a gate entry reader or an attendant e.g. a golf course starter equipped with a code reading device authorizes the participant to enter the activity playing field i.e. referred to herein as the activity area .

The activity payment application is further configured to determine that the participant has departed the predetermined activity area at which the activity occurs. The predetermined activity area may be the golf course grounds the premises of the bowling tennis facility or the like. The predetermined activity area may be a geo fenced region such that the location determining device is capable of determining when the participant in possession of the mobile communication device has departed the activity area i.e. is no longer located within the geo fenced region . Since the geo fenced predetermined activity area is used to indicate that the participant has finished participating in the activity the geo fenced predetermined activity area will typically encompass an area greater than the playing field premises or the like such as an area including the parking facility or an area exceeding the perimeter of the facility grounds premises or the like by a predetermined distance.

The activity payment application is further configured to in response to determining that the participant has departed the activity area automatically remit a final payment from the payment account to the activity provider. The final payment in addition to the initial payment make up the full payment due for the activity. In specific embodiments in which the initial payment is merely authorization to charge the payment account the full payment the final payment may be the full payment.

The system additionally includes computing device that is in network communication with mobile communication device . The computing device which may comprise more than one physical entity includes computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with the memory . The memory of computing device includes payment authorization routine which is configured to receive initial payment authorization request from the participant via the mobile communication device . The initial payment authorization request includes the payment account that the participant has designated for payment of the initial payment and the final payment. In some embodiments of the invention an initial payment is remitted from the payment account while in other embodiments of the invention the initial payment merely serves to authorize automatic remittance of the full payment amount once the participant has finished the activity i.e. once the participant departed the predetermined activity area . Once the initial payment authorization has been processed the payment authorization routine will generate and communicate activity participation authorization to the participant via the mobile communication device . The activity participation authorization may indicate that the participant has paid the initial payment and or may include a computer readable code that allows the participant to gain access to the predetermined activity area. Further the payment authorization routine is configured to receive authorization to charge the payment account the final payment . Such authorization to charge the payment account the final payment is received in response to a determination that the participant has departed the activity area.

Referring to shown is a more detailed block diagram of the mobile communication device according to embodiments of the present invention. The mobile communication device is configured to provide automated payment for an activity based on determining location of the device. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention.

The mobile communication device includes computing platform that can receive and execute algorithms such as routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as activity payment application and algorithms associated therewith or the like stored in the memory of the mobile communication device .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of mobile communication device and the operability of the device on the network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with activity payment application and related algorithms sub algorithms sub modules thereof.

Computer platform may additionally include communications module not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the mobile communications device as well as between the other networked devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection and communicating payment authorization requests to computing device .

The memory stores activity payment application configured to provide automated payment for an activity based on determining location of the activity participant. The application is configured to determine that the present location of the mobile communication device in possession of the participant is an activity site at which the participant may conduct an activity requiring a payment. Examples of activity sites include but are not limited to golf courses tennis racquetball facilities bowling alleys play facilities and the like. It should be evident that the activity sites listed are not intended to be exclusive and that any site at which an activity requiring payment can be conducted or performed by a participant is included within the inventive concepts herein disclosed.

In specific embodiments of the invention the application is configured to determine the present location through implementation of a location determining device such as a Global Positioning System GPS device disposed within the mobile communication device and map the present location to a known activity site .

In response to determining that the present location is an activity site the activity payment application will generate and communicate an activity alert i.e. first alert to a user interface such as a display on the mobile communication device . The alert is configured to query the participant as to their desire to participate in the activity offered by the activity site i.e. present an activity offer . The activity offer may include activity pricing and any activity pricing options. In the event that the participant has previously made a reservation for the activity e.g. a golf course tee time reservation or the like the alert may include a reservation reminder or confirmation as opposed to an activity offer . In response to the participant agreeing to participate in the activity or acknowledging the reservation the alert is further configured to request initial payment from the participant. While the activity offer and request for initial payment are shown and described as occurring within activity alert in practice separate alerts may be generated and communicated for presenting the activity offer and the initial payment request .

It should be noted that since the invention requires a final payment once the participant has finished the activity the initial payment is less than the full amount due for activity participation. In specific embodiments the initial payment as defined herein may include a minimal down payment or merely authorization to subsequently charge a participant designated payment account the participant the full amount for activity participation at the conclusion of the activity.

Thus the activity payment application is configured to receive the initial payment authorization that includes the participant chosen payment account such as a debit or credit account or the like. The participant may be required to input the payment account information or the application may store the participant s previously configured payment account information. Authorization of the initial payment authorization by the activity site through the financial institution associated with the participant designated payment account results in the participant being granted activity participation authorization . The activity participation authorization may be configured as some form of communicated message such as an alert a Short Message Service SMS text message an email or the like and may include a code such as a bar code or the like which when read by a gate entry reader or an attendant e.g. a golf course starter equipped with a code reading device authorizes the participant to enter the activity playing field i.e. referred to herein as the activity area .

In alternate embodiments of the invention the activity payment application is further configured to generate and communicate second alerts to the user interface of the mobile communication device. The second alert include the current payment amount i.e. the amount the participant would owe if the activity is completed at this time . Second alerts may be generated at the bequest of the participant or the second alerts may be generated and communicated at specified time or location intervals e.g. after each hour of activity completion after every nine holes of golf or the like . Second alerts allow the participant the ability to gauge how much they currently owe and thereby assess if they can afford to continue the activity. As such activity payment application may be configured to determine the current payment amount based on the arrival time that the participant entered the predetermined geo fenced activity area the current time and the time rate applicable to the activity e.g. price per hour or the like . In other embodiments the activity payment application may be configured to determine the current payment amount based on current location of the participant as determined by the mobile communication device and a level completed rate . The current location may indicate the level that the participant is currently participating in or has completed. For example in a golf course scenario the current location may indicate that the participate is located on hole No. 9 and if the golf course charges on a per nine hole basis i.e. level completed rate the participant s current payment amount may equal the nine hole charge.

The activity payment application is further configured to determine that the participant has departed the predetermined activity area at which the activity occurs. The predetermined activity area may be the golf course grounds the premises of the bowling tennis facility or the like. The predetermined activity area may be a geo fenced region such that the location determining device is capable of determining when the participant in possession of the mobile communication device has departed the activity area i.e. is no longer located within the geo fenced region . Since the geo fenced predetermined activity area is used to indicate that the participant has finished participating in the activity the geo fenced predetermined activity area will typically encompass an area greater than the playing field premises or the like such as an area including the parking facility or an area exceeding the perimeter of the facility grounds premises or the like by a predetermined distance.

In alternate embodiments of the invention the activity payment application is further configured to determine the final payment amount based on the arrival time that the participant entered the predetermined geo fenced activity area the departure time that the participant departed the predetermined geo fenced activity area and the time rate applicable to the activity e.g. price per hour or the like . Such determination of the activity payment amount allows for precise activity charges that can be determined for the actual time down to the minutes or the like that the participant participated in the activity as opposed to being charged for full hours or the like when the participant only participated for a portion of the hour in question.

In other embodiments the activity payment application may be configured to determine the final payment amount based on the departure location of the participant as determined by the mobile communication device a level completed rate and in some embodiments the departure time . The departure location may indicate the level that the participant completed. For example in a golf course scenario the departure location may indicate that the participate departed proximate hole No. 9 and based on the departure time would likely have finished nine holes as opposed to eighteen or more holes . Thus if the golf course charges on a per nine hole basis i.e. level completed rate the participant final payment amount may be based on the nine hole charge. Such determination of the activity payment amount allows for activity providers to charge based on how much of the activity the participant has completed. Specifically in the golf course example the activity provider can charge on per hole basis and the participant may be able to only be charged for the holes which they actually completed in the event that complete less than a full round or more than a full round i.e. 18 holes or the like.

The activity payment application is further configured to in response to determining that the participant has departed the activity area automatically remit a final payment from the payment account to the activity provider. The final payment in addition to the initial payment make up the full payment due for the activity. In specific embodiments in which the initial payment is merely authorization to charge the payment account the full payment the final payment may be the full payment.

Further the activity payment application is further configured to in response to remitting the final payment generate and communicate a payment receipt to the participant. The payment receipt may be communicated to the participant by a participant chosen communication channel including but not limited to email text message alert or the like. The payment receipt may include the full payment amount including a breakdown of the initial payment and the final payment. In addition in some embodiments of the invention the payment receipt may include a computer readable code that when read by a computer indicates that the participant has paid in full. Such computer readable code may be required to be read by an exit way code reading device or an attendant in possession of a code reading device in order for the participant to verify that they have paid in full before leaving the premises of the activity site or the like

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for providing automated payment for an activity based on determining location of the activity participant s mobile communication device in accordance with specific embodiments of the present invention. At Event the present location of the mobile communication device is determined as an activity site at which the participant may conduct an activity requiring a payment. Examples of activity sites include but are not limited to golf courses tennis racquetball facilities bowling alleys and the like. It should be evident that the activity sites listed are not intended to be exclusive and that any site at which an activity requiring payment can be conducted or performed by a participant is included within the inventive concepts herein disclosed.

In specific embodiments of the method the present location is determined through implementation of a location determining device such as a Global Positioning System GPS device disposed within the mobile communication device and mapping the present location to a known activity site. In other embodiments of the invention the mobile communication device may be configured to capture computer readable code such as a Quick Response QR code displayed at the activity site. The computer readable code when read by the mobile communication device indicates that the present location of the participant is an activity site.

At Event in response to determining that the present location is an activity site a first alert is generated and communicated to a user interface such as a display on the mobile communication device. The alert is configured to query the participant as to their desire to participate in the activity offered at the activity site. In response to the participant agreeing to participate in the activity the alert is further configured to request the participant submit an initial payment. While the activity offer and request for initial payment are described as occurring within a first alert in practice separate alerts may be generated and communicated for presenting the activity offer and the initial payment request.

It should be noted that the initial payment is less than the full amount due for activity participation. In specific embodiments the initial payment as defined herein may include a minimal down payment or merely authorization to subsequently charge a participant designated payment account the participant the full amount for activity participation at the conclusion of the activity. For example if the activity is golfing the initial payment may be for golf cart or a portion of the greens fees or if the activity is bowling the initial payment may be for the bowling shoe rental.

At Event a participant input is received that authorizes payment of the initial payment using a participant designated payment account such as a debit or credit account or the like. Receipt and authorization of the initial payment authorization by the activity provider through the financial institution associated with the participant designated payment account results in the participant being granted activity participation authorization. The activity participation authorization may be configured as some form of communicated message such as an alert a Short Message Service SMS text message an email or the like and may include a code such as a bar code or the like which when read by a gate entry reader or an attendant e.g. a golf course starter equipped with a code reading device authorizes the participant to enter the activity playing field i.e. referred to herein as the activity area .

At Event a determination is made that the participant in possession of the mobile communication device has departed the predetermined activity area at which the activity occurs. The predetermined activity area may be the golf course grounds the premises of the bowling tennis facility or the like. The predetermined activity area may be a geo fenced region such that the location determining device is capable of determining when the participant in possession of the mobile communication device has departed the activity area i.e. is no longer located within the geo fenced region . Since the geo fenced predetermined activity area is used to indicate that the participant has finished participating in the activity the geo fenced predetermined activity area will typically encompass an area greater than the playing field premises or the like such as an area including the parking facility or an area exceeding the perimeter of the facility grounds premises or the like by a predetermined distance.

In alternate embodiments of the method not shown in in response to determining that the participant has departed from the predetermined activity area a final payment amount may be determined. In certain embodiments of the method the final payment amount may be determined based on the arrival entry time of the participant at predetermined activity area the departure time of the participant from the predetermined activity area and a predetermined time rate charged for the activity e.g. price per hour or the like . In other embodiments of the method the final payment amount may be determined based on the departure location of the participant i.e. precisely where the participant departed the activity area which may be indicative of how much of the activity i.e. what level of the activity the participant completed and a level completed rate charged for the activity.

At Event in response to determining that the participant has departed the activity area a final payment is automatically remitted from the payment account to the activity provider without the participant or the activity provider required to provide any further actions. The final payment in addition to the initial payment make up the full payment due for the activity. In specific embodiments in which the initial payment is merely authorization to charge the payment account the full payment the final payment may be the full payment.

In alternate embodiments of the method not shown in in response to remitting the final payment a payment receipt is generated and communicated to the participant. The payment receipt may be configured to include verification that the full payment has been received the full payment amount i.e. the final payment in addition to the initial payment and or description of the activity.

Referring now to a block diagram is provided that illustrates the mobile communication device of in more detail in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In some embodiments the mobile communication device is a mobile phone but in other embodiments the mobile communication device can include and or be embodied as any other mobile communication device described and or contemplated herein. The mobile communication device includes a processor operatively connected to such devices as memory user interfaces such as participant output devices and participant input devices communication interface power source clock or other timer a camera image capture device and a location determining device .

The processor may include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor can additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application not shown in . The web browser application may then allow the mobile communication device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor is configured to use the communication interface to communicate with one or more other devices on the network not shown in . In this regard the communication interface includes an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver collectively referred to as a transceiver . The processor is configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network. In this regard the mobile communication device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile communication device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation and or future generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile communication device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile communication device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The communication interface may also include a near field communication NFC interface . As used herein the phrase NFC interface generally refers to hardware and or software that is configured to contactlessly and or wirelessly send and or receive information over relatively short ranges e.g. within four inches within three feet within fifteen feet or the like . The NFC interface may include a smart card key card proximity card Bluetooth device radio frequency identification RFID tag and or reader transmitter receiver and or the like. In some embodiments the NFC interface communicates information via radio infrared IR and or optical transmissions. In some embodiments the NFC interface is configured to operate as an NFC transmitter and or as an NFC receiver e.g. an NFC reader etc. . In some embodiments the NFC interface enables the mobile communication device to operate as a mobile wallet. Also it will be understood that the NFC interface may be embedded built carried and or otherwise supported in and or on the mobile communication device . In some embodiments the NFC interface is not supported in and or on the mobile communication device but the NFC interface is otherwise operatively connected to the mobile communication device e.g. where the NFC interface is a peripheral device plugged into the mobile communication device or the like . Other apparatuses having NFC interfaces mentioned herein may be configured similarly.

The mobile communication device can have a user interface that is like other user interfaces described herein made up of one or more participant output devices and or participant input devices . The participant output devices include a display A e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD and or the like and a speaker B and or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The participant input devices which allow the mobile communication device to receive data from a participant may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile communication device to receive data from a participant such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s . The user interface may also include a camera such as a digital camera video camera or the like operable to capture computer readable code and the like.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device also includes a location determining device that can be used to determine the location of the mobile communication device . For example the location determining device may include a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver. In some embodiments the location determining device is at least partially made up of the antenna transmitter and receiver described above. For example in one embodiment triangulation of cellular signals may be used to identify the approximate location of the mobile communication device . In other embodiments the location determining device includes a proximity sensor and or transmitter such as an RFID tag that can sense or be sensed by devices known to be located proximate a merchant and or other location to determine that the mobile communication device is located proximate these known devices.

The mobile communication device further includes a power source such as a battery for powering various circuits and other devices that are used to operate the mobile communication device . Embodiments of the mobile communication device may also include a clock or other timer configured to determine and in some cases communicate actual or relative time to the processor or one or more other devices.

The mobile communication device also includes a memory operatively connected to the processor . As used herein memory includes any computer readable medium as defined herein configured to store data code and or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory can additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory can store any of a number of applications which may include computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile communication device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as activity payment application . It will be understood that the activity payment application can be individually or collectively operable e.g. usable executable etc. to initiate perform complete and or facilitate any one or more portions of the process flow described herein.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for automated initial and final payment for an activity based on determining the location of an activity participant s mobile communication device. The described embodiments provide for the activity participant to automatically pay for the activity based on their presence at the activity location and agreement to participate. As such the need to check in and or pay for the activity at a conventional payment counter is eliminated. Further the invention provides for an automatic final payment to be made at the conclusion of the activity as opposed to having to pre pay for the activity prior to conducting the activity. By remitting final payment at the completion of the activity activity pricing can be accurately determined based on the amount and or time of the activity in which the activity participant participated.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

