---

title: Semi-supervised identity aggregation of profiles using statistical methods
abstract: User profiles can be analyzed to identify profiles matching to the same identity. For example, profiles from different social network systems are analyzed to determine if the profiles are associated with the same user of the social network systems. Multiple heuristics may be calculated using different algorithms. The calculated heuristics may then be combined to generate a match score that indicates whether two profiles match.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654594&OS=09654594&RS=09654594
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09654594
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130701
---
The present application claims benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 699 243 filed on Sep. 10 2012 by B Far et al. and entitled Semi Supervised Identity Aggregation of Profiles Using Statistical Methods of which the entire disclosure is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present application is also related to the following co pending and commonly assigned U.S. Patent Applications 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 932 304 filed concurrent herewith by B Far et al. and entitled Advanced Skill Match and Reputation Management for Workforces and which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 699 233 filed on Sep. 10 2012 by B Far et al. and entitled Advanced Skill Match and Reputation Management for Workforces U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 932 286 filed concurrent herewith by B Far et al. and entitled Personal and Workforce Reputation Provenance in Applications and which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 699 250 filed on Sep. 10 2012 by B Far et al. and entitled Personal and Workforce Reputation Provenance in Applications and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 932 265 filed concurrent herewith by B Far et al. and entitled Reputation Based Auditing of Enterprise Application Authorization Models and which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 699 238 filed on Sep. 10 2012 by B Far et al. and entitled Reputation Based Auditing of Enterprise Application Authorization Models of which the entire disclosure of each is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Social media is exerting an increasingly significant and sometimes unanticipated effect on individuals business even nations. It is increasingly important for organizations to be actively aware of any consequences that might arise from social media usage by its employees. Social media awareness can also be a useful tool in expeditiously sifting through a large number of recruitment candidates reducing the total number of man hours that is required to complete recruitment tasks.

Today a preponderance of people in the developed world have used social media in one form or another creating social media profiles that allow them to share information with others. Many people have multiple accounts across different social media networks. The information a person shares can be very different from network to network due to the different character and culture of each network.

For example an individual may have a profile on Facebook and an employee profile in an organization s internal system. His Facebook profile indicates that he is interested in surfing and fencing while his employee profile only contains information relevant to his employment and therefore does not mention his interest in surfing or fencing. A single profile contains a proper subset of all the data that could be in a profile for a person. Thus the data one may have on a person from one profile may be incomplete. Any automated algorithms that process data by traversing the social media graph would benefit from being able to correctly recognize multiple profiles belonging to the same person instead of incorrectly identifying them as separate individuals. For example an attempt to count the number of social media fans for a particular brand would be much more accurate if the same person were not counted multiple times for each profile on LinkedIn Twitter and Facebook .

The fragmentation of personal data across different social media networks presents a number of difficulties when attempting to determine if two different profiles belong to the same person. People can fill out different subsets of their personal information for each network based on their perceived importance and relevance for each network. For example the employment history might be fully described in a person s LinkedIn profile but left blank in the Facebook profile while his interest in surfing is mentioned in Facebook but not LinkedIn. People can also intentionally or unintentionally enter data inconsistencies across different networks. An individual might enter an inconsistent birthday to appear younger on Facebook while desiring to appear older on LinkedIn. Older social media profiles that are no longer being actively updated may present different addresses or phone numbers than currently maintained profiles. A person might use a casual nickname on Facebook while desiring to appear more formal on LinkedIn. Beyond trusting the intentions of the social media user conventional techniques for processing social media information typically lack a practical way to verify data s validity.

Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for semi supervised identity aggregation of profiles in which user profiles can be analyzed to identify profiles matching to the same identity. For example profiles from different social network systems are analyzed to determine if the profiles are associated with the same user of the social network systems. Multiple heuristics may be calculated using different algorithms. The calculated heuristics may then be combined to generate a match score that indicates whether two profiles match.

Techniques described and suggested herein related to a semi supervised approach towards reconciliation of these issues. Congruence between two potentially matching profiles in various embodiments are established via multiple identification methods with each method assigning a heuristic score that can be aggregated for a total matching score. An appropriate heuristic weight for the significance of each method score is may be found by analyzing a sample corpus of known matching profiles that can be acquired through multiple means. Such data can be acquired through automated processes from profiles containing semantically tagged meta data that unambiguously declare a match. Alternately it can also be acquired from user identified matches entered through a provided user interface. The time it takes for the manual process of user identified matching can be substantially alleviated by software processes that delineate a useful subset of likely matches. This subset can be acquired from the set of profiles that have a high matching score from the automated multi attribute matching algorithm scores that were not high enough for the automated process to identify with certainty a matching profile but high enough to indicate a likely match.

In an embodiment a more formal definition of the terms and parameters that have to be considered as well as a formal definition for the problem space are established. Criteria in selecting matching methods are configured to be both pluggable and additive. Pluggable may refer to the benchmark that the method is sufficient but is not necessary in correctly identifying a matching profile. This allows inclusion or exclusion of the matching method at user discretion should it not be available for a particular social network for whatever reason. Additive may refer to the selected attribute being strictly ordered reflexive symmetric effect on the final matching score although it is not necessarily monotonic. This gives greater flexibility should users decide to modify the choice of heuristic methods used in determining a match.

Stated another way aggregating social network profiles can comprise accessing data of a first profile from a first data source accessing data of a second profile from a second data source and determining whether the second profile is identified by the first profile. In response to determining that the second profile is identified by the first profile the second profile can be identified as matching the first profile. In response to determining that the second profile is not identified by the first profile one or more heuristics can be calculated and a determination can be made as to whether the first profile and the second profile match based on the calculated one or more heuristics.

For example calculating one or more heuristics comprises obtaining attributes of the first profile generating attributes of the second profile identifying attributes of the second profile matching attributes of the first profile and calculating a heuristic based at least in part on the identified matching attributes. In another case calculating one or more heuristics can comprise obtaining one or more expressions of interest from the first profile obtaining one or more expressions of interest from the second profile identifying expressions of interest from the second profile matching expressions of interest from the first profile and calculating a heuristic based at least in part on the identified matching expressions of interest. Additionally or alternatively calculating one or more heuristics can comprise obtaining one or more profile connections from the first profile obtaining one or more profile connections from the second profile identifying profile connections from the second profile matching profile connections from the first profile and calculating a heuristic based at least in part on the identified matching profile connections. In yet another example calculating one or more heuristics can additionally or alternatively comprise obtaining one or more images associated with the first profile obtaining one or more images associated with the second profile identifying faces within the obtained images associated with the first profile and the images associated with the second profile identifying images associated with the second profile matching images associated with the first profile based on the identified faces and calculating a heuristic based at least in part on the identified matching images. In some implementations calculating one or more heuristics can comprise obtaining content posted in connection with the first profile obtaining content posted in connection with the second profile identifying content posted in connection with the first profile that at least partially matches content posted in connection with the second profile calculating a number of instances of at least partially matching content that is posted to both the first profile and the second profile within a time threshold and calculating a heuristic based at least in part on the calculated number of instances. Additionally or alternatively calculating one or more heuristics can comprise obtaining a set of hyperlinks posted in connection with the first profile obtaining a set of hyperlinks posted in connection with the second profile identifying hyperlinks posted in connection with the first profile that at least partially matches hyperlinks posted in connection with the second profile calculating a number of matching hyperlinks that are posted to both the first profile and the second profile and calculating a heuristic based at least in part on the calculated number of matching hyperlinks. Other alternatives are contemplated and considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

In the following description various embodiments of the present invention will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Given a set P p p . . . p of profiles extracted from an arbitrary set of data sources we define a function P P B where B 0 1 is a Boolean domain. Given a pair of profiles pand p p p may be a function that indicates if two profiles belong to the same person p p 1 . Note that may be an equivalence relation that is therefore reflexive symmetric and transitive.

Defining is a non trivial problem and in an embodiment is defined using heuristic approaches. Regardless of how is evaluated for a pair of profiles the possibility of both false positives and false negatives occurring is taken into account. This in many instances is the unavoidable consequence of the aforementioned issues with fragmentation of data insufficiently overlapping data sets and the high likelihood of encountering inconsistent data sets. This is why our semi supervised approach results in large wins in surmounting these difficulties. Any false positives or false negatives generated by an inadequately descriptive can be corrected by user input and this result can be used in recalibrating the heuristic weights used in allocating the match score resulting in a more accurate .

To address the issues with defining in an embodiment we relax the problem and let the range of take on a value in the interval 0 1 . This allows us to define the degree to which the function believes that two profiles belong to the same person. In addition to this metric on equality which we will define as relevance in an embodiment we include three additional metrics on the certainty of the result of . So we redefine to P P 0 1 . The four metrics in the range of are 

There are many ways to evaluate I . In an embodiment let M . . . be the set of the magma in the algebraic sense containing algorithms that evaluate on a pair of profiles and satisfies the following property For every M such that and every pair of profiles p p P let p p be the accuracy of on pand pand p p be the precision of pand p. Then we have the following properties 

By constructing M in this manner we know that the composition of any two algorithms in M will produce an algorithm that has an accuracy and precision that is at least as high as either of the individual algorithms.

Below some of the possible linking methods for the M are described. Many social networks provide a means for users to unambiguously identify their accounts in alternate social media. For example there is a specific URL field in a Facebook profile for a user s matching Twitter profile. This provides us with a baseline default matching of correctly identified matches. Unfortunately the current reality is that many people do not enter this information requiring us to use additional methods.

Most social networks provide a means to enter both structured and unstructured data that can be used to populate a profile. In many cases the unstructured data can also be processed algorithmically into structured data using natural language processing and text analytics methods. This allows us to assign a number of known attributes to each examined social media profile. Some examples of an identifiable attribute could be the user s e mail address or a list of his favorite movies or an identification of family members who are using the same social media network. Different combinations of attributes can provide varyingly accurate likelihoods of matches. For example two different profiles with the same name and the same state might not belong to the same person but two different profiles with the same name and the same address are much more likely to be the same person. It is important to consider multiple matching attributes as there can always be unexpected coincidences. For example one might expect two different profiles with the same name and same birthday to be a match but this is not always true. The heuristic weight for each set of matching attributes can initially be seeded using a predetermined probability matrix but we can make further use of our existing data set by algorithmically reallocating the weighting of each score based on the accuracy of matches made in newly examined profiles. Even attributes that obviously should match could turn out to be less accurate than expected in actual data. For example it is an easy assumption to think that two different profiles with the same phone number are a match but it is possible that the cell phone was given to a family member and the older profile was not updated to reflect a transfer in ownership of the cellphone number. Nevertheless it should be possible to identify unique combinations of matching attributes for example two profiles with the same name address and school are very likely to belong to the same person.

If insufficient attribute information is available to conclusively identify a matching profile in an embodiment we consider shared behaviors and interests. Based on the declared likes of a profile or other expressions of interest say for example the books movies or music that a particular profile likes we can potentially identify a match. The more likes that are in a profile the more useful this heuristic becomes. Not everyone who likes Justin Bieber is the same person. However if there are two different profiles where both profiles have exactly the same bands that are liked and there are over a hundred bands then it is much more likely that there is a match. Some prolific profile users have thousands of likes so this can be an useful heuristic especially coupled with the other methods that have been outlined.

We can also use common social connections to identify a match. If two profiles have exactly the same friends it is possible that the two profiles belong to the same person. This method is a bit more exploratory than the other methods currently listed as people within the same social circle are likely to have the same friends so it may not correctly identify a match by itself but it can be used as an useful correlation.

Computer vision and face recognition technology has come a long way in recent years. A frequent usage pattern of social media is users posting multiple profile pictures of themselves. It is quite common for users to post the same pictures of themselves across different social networks especially since there are automated tools that facilitate this usage pattern. This allows a useful heuristic from identifying different profiles with the same pictures. Face recognition technology allows this to work even when it is not exactly the same picture that is being taken just the same subjects being taken in the pictures. With some users having shared thousands of photographs of themselves there is a large data set that we can make use of. We can foresee that the accuracy of the automated algorithms will improve as more data is processed allowing us to retune our heuristics based on our findings. Furthermore there are additional heuristics that have yet to be identified and might provide useful signals that can be used in improving the work.

Below are described various systems and methods that may be used to implement various embodiments of the present disclosure. The systems may be used for example to enable users to match social media profiles to one another in accordance with the various techniques described herein.

The reputation data processing system may be operated by an organization or on behalf of the organization. As such external data sources may be computer systems serving as a source of data where the computer systems are operated by and or on behalf of entities different from the organization. Similarly internal data sources may be computer systems serving as sources of data where the computer systems are operated by and or on behalf of the organization. It should be noted that the various data sources internal and external may be hosted in various ways. For example one or more of the internal data sources may be hosted by the organization itself such as in a data center or other facility of the organization. One or more of the internal data sources may be hosted by third parties. For example one or more of the internal data sources may operate using facilities and hardware of a third party yet may be programmatically managed by or on behalf of the organization. The hosting of external data sources may also vary in these ways.

Turning to the external data sources example data sources include social network systems . A social networking system may be a publicly accessible computer system having users from the general public. The term computer system unless otherwise contradicted explicitly or by context is intended to encompass both single computer instances e.g. a single server and multiple computer system instances such as a network of computer system instances that collectively operate to achieve a result. Further a computer system may also encompass multiple computer system instances that span multiple geographic regions and or data center facilities. Returning to an example social networking system the users of the social networking system may have accounts and corresponding profiles with the social network systems and may engage in social networking activities. Example social networking activities include communicating electronically with other users of a social network system either privately or publicly expressing interest in content and or associating profiles with other profiles of the social network system which may be pursuant to mutual acceptance of the association by corresponding users. Specific examples of social networking systems include Facebook Twitter MySpace and others. Some specific examples of social networking activities in the Facebook social network system include friending other users posting content on another s wall liking content and or other users public or private messaging un friending other users sharing content and other activities. Example activities in the Twitter social network system include following other users being followed by other users tweeting re tweeting and the like.

Generally any suitable external data source may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure. For example as illustrated in various websites with user influenced content may also serve as external data sources for the reputation data processing system . A website with user influenced content may be any public information resource in which content is associated with users of the website. An example website may be an online forum in which users of the forum submit messages for other users to see. Another example of a suitable website is an electronic marketplace in which users of the electronic marketplace are able to electronically provide feedback for other users of the electronic marketplace. For example one user may purchase a product or otherwise have knowledge of the product and may provide an electronic review of the product for other users to see in connection with their purchasing decisions.

As with external data sources internal data sources may comprise one or more computer systems serving as an internal source of data for the reputation data processing system . Typically organizations utilize various computer systems in connection with management of their operations. An organization for example may utilize various computer systems for accounting human resources talent management customer relationship management internal social networking internal information sources e.g. internal websites and the like. shows some illustrative examples of suitable internal data sources in accordance with an embodiment. For example as shown in the internal data sources include a human resource management system which may be a computer system configured to perform various operations in connection with management of an organization s human resource needs.

The human resource management may for example maintain data about employees of the organization and may allow administrators to update add and or remove data for employees of the organization as the set of employees of the organization changes over time. Another example of a suitable internal data source is a defect and enhancement request tracking system . A defect and enhancement request tracking system may be a computer system which tracks various issues with products and or services of the organization. For example if the organization is a software company the defect and enhancement request tracking system may enable employees to submit information identifying issues with the software otherwise known as bugs. The defect and enhancement request tracking system may also enable employees to submit information regarding bugs of internal computer systems used by the organization and not necessarily sold to others. For example an employee may notice a broken link on an internal web page of the organization and as a result may submit a ticket which may then be processed by another employee of the organization who may update the internal website accordingly.

As illustrated in the internal data sources also include an internal social network system . The internal social network system may not be publicly accessible. That is the universe of users of the internal social network system may be limited such as to employees of the organization certain employees of the organization and or individuals and or computer systems to which the organization has provided authorization. As an example the internal social network system may be accessible to employees of the organization and certain vendors of the organization such as attorneys working in law firms for the organization. It should be noted and understood that while referred to here as an internal social network system this system may or may not be hosted internally. That is it may actually be a hosted outside the company but have a limited universe of employees i.e. accessible by internal people.

Also as illustrated in the internal data sources include a talent management system . A talent management system may be a computer system configured to enable employees of the organization to perform various operations in connection with ensuring that the organization has appropriate personnel. For example an employee of the organization may utilize the talent management system to track individuals who are engaged in the hiring process of the organization and or to locate candidates for open positions. The talent management system may maintain resumes may perform automated processing of received resumes and the like. Example talent management systems include those offered under the brand name Taleo. It should be noted and understood that this system might be hosted elsewhere but would considered internal in the sense that only internal people have access to this system.

As noted above numerous variations of the environment are considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure. For example while shows various illustrative examples of external data sources and internal data sources numerous embodiments of the present disclosure may have more or fewer data sources than those explicitly illustrated.

Turning to the reputation data processing system in an embodiment the system includes multiple components. For example as illustrated in the reputation data processing system includes a connecter framework . The connector framework of the reputation data processing system may be a component e.g. separate computer system instance s or programming module configured to enable the reputation data processing system to obtain data from the external data sources and internal data sources . The connector framework may for example operate according to programming logic that enables the connector framework to obtain data from numerous different data sources and combine the data in a manner suitable for processing by the reputation data processing system such as described below.

For example many of the external data sources and or internal data sources may provide data that is organized in different ways. The connector framework may include programming logic to extract data and store data from multiple sources in a common manner such as in accordance with a common data storage schema. The connector framework may obtain data from the various data sources in numerous ways. For example in an embodiment the connector framework is configured to obtain data from the various data sources according to application programming interfaces APIs of the various systems. For example a social network system may include an API for obtaining data available in the API. The connector framework may include programming logic for making API calls in a manner acceptable to the social network system. Different social network systems may have different APIs and the connecter framework may be configured appropriately to obtain data from the different sources.

The connector framework may also be configured to obtain data in other ways. For example data posted on web pages may be obtained by downloading web pages or other documents of the data source. For instance a website may correspond to a domain name. The connector framework may enable the reputation data processing system to obtain a web page or other document by using the URL. The connector framework may analyze and receive documents and store data accordingly. The connector framework may also utilize various screen scraping techniques and generally any technique in which data from a data source may be obtained.

As noted above the connector framework in an embodiment enables the reputation data processing system to obtain data from various different sources and store the data according to a common schema or generally in a manner suitable for use by the reputation data processing system. In an embodiment as illustrated in the data received through the connector framework is stored by the reputation data processing system into a reputation database . The reputation database may be any data storage mechanism that enables the reputation data processing system to operate in accordance with the various embodiments described herein.

The reputation database may for example be a relational database comprising a computer system that utilizes storage to store data in multiple tables where the tables associate some of the data with other data. For example a table may associate an identifier of an employee with data collected about the employee such as data regarding the employee s activity in a social network and or other electronic environment. According to some embodiments much of the collected data can be stored in a triple store aka a graph database and the remainder in a relational database. In such a mixed model data can be stored based on how it will be analyzed later i.e. it can be stored where future analysis will be most efficient. Once data is obtained from multiple sources and stored in the reputation database a reasoner of the reputation data processing system may process data accessed from the reputation database . The reasoner accordingly may be a component of the reputation data processing system that is configured to analyze data from the reputation database in accordance with the various embodiments described herein.

The reasoner may for example analyze data from the reputation database in order to determine an individual influence based on the data that was obtained about the individual. Similarly the reasoner may be used to decide which data is stored persistently in the reputation database . For example the connector framework in an embodiment may obtain more data than is necessary and or desirable for use in accordance with the various embodiments. The reasoner may accordingly analyze data to determine whether to discard the data or store the data in the reputation database .

In an embodiment the environment includes a reputation management user interface which enables users of the reputation data processing system to engage in various activities such as by defining data analysis for the data processing system to perform specifying data sources and which data is to be obtained from the specified data sources specifying parameters for maintaining data e.g. how much data to store for each user how to determine which data to keep and which to discard and the like viewing presentations of data and results of analysis of the data by the reputation data processing system generating white label applications for data sources and other activities. In an embodiment the reputation management user interface is an application operating on a computer system instance separate from the reputation data processing system obtaining data for presentations and or the presentations themselves from the reputation data processing system . The reputation management user interface may be an application constructed using application development framework ADF tools such as those available from Oracle Corporation. However the reputation management user interface may be any suitable application and in some embodiments the reputation management user interface is presented in a web browser presenting presentations obtained from a web server of the reputation data processing system e.g. in the form of HTML pages . Also while illustrated separately from the reputation data processing system the reputation management user interface may be a component of the reputation data processing system . For example if the reputation data processing system is operated as a server or cluster of servers the reputation management user interface may be a module of the reputation data processing system implemented by the server and or one or more of the servers of the cluster.

The reputation management user interface may also be separate from the reputation data processing system . For instance the reputation management user interface may be implemented by a server different from a server or cluster of servers that implements the reputation data processing system . Similarly the reputation management user interface may be implemented as multiple components implemented themselves on different hardware devices. For example the reputation management user interface may be implemented collectively by a server and a client application executing on a hardware device of a user of the reputation management user interface . In an embodiment the reputation management user interface enables users to view presentations of data and results of analysis of the data.

In an embodiment the presentations presented by the reputation management user interface include graphics and or text which provide intuitive views of data in the reputation database and or results of analysis of that data. In an embodiment a user of the reputation management user interface provides user input that is transmitted to the reputation data processing system . The reasoner may then process data from the reputation database in accordance with the user input. Results of processing by the reasoner may be provided to the reputation management user interface for presentation to the user. Similarly input by the user may be transmitted to the reputation data processing system which may submit a query to the reputation database to obtain data stored by the reputation database which is then provided either directly or in a processed form to the reputation management user interface for presentation to the user.

User input into the reputation management user interface may also cause results from the reasoner and data from the reputation database to be provided for presentation to the user. Plus in general in an embodiment the representation management user interface enables users to direct operation of the reputation data processing system in accordance with its programmed capabilities. Additional capabilities may include for example obtaining data from a data source in response to user input provided to the reputation management user interface .

In various embodiments the reputation management user interface includes one or more additional features. For example in an embodiment the reputation management user interface includes reusable ADF and or API components that allow others to build additional applications that make use of data and analysis through the reputation data processing system . Reputation metrics and other values calculated by the reputation data processing system may be used for instance to serve other purposes in addition to those described explicitly herein. For instance reusable ADF components of the user interface may be used to build a custom application for a marketing department to enable users in the marketing department to hone their skills and view how their activities serve their reputations and the reputations of the organization as well as how their activities may cause undue risk to the organization.

As another example in some embodiments the reputation management user interface includes functionality to generate white label applications for one or more social networking systems and or other system. A white label application built for a social network system may for example be installed by a user as a condition for receiving one or more rewards or other recognition. An example of such rewards may be a restaurant or retailer discounts. In such cases if an employee shares more information they may in some embodiments receive larger discounts discounts at a larger set of retailers or unlock extra coupon codes. Once installed the white label application may give the organization access to information maintained by the social network system in a non public manner. For example using Facebook as an example use of the white label application may give the organization access to information that is not accessible to the general public but to a more limited group of Facebook users such as those identified as friends of the user that installed the white label application. In an embodiment the white label application allows the user to specify various privacy settings that determine how much and which types of information are shared with the organization. In some embodiments the white label application is a wrapper for a benefit management application such that benefits to the employee may vary according to the amount of information shared by the employee. In this manner the employee can choose the level of benefits and information sharing that he or she is most comfortable with.

The employees of the organization may access the user accessed system using various devices. Example devices include personal computer systems mobile devices such as smart phones tablet computing devices and generally any device configured to communicate with the user accessed system . As shown in a reputation data processing system such as the reputation data processing system described above in connection with obtains data from the user accessed system . For example the reputation data processing system may submit an API call to the user accessed system which may provide a response accordingly with data specified by the API call.

For example the reputation data processing system in an embodiment may submit an API call to obtain data about an employee specified in the API call. The API call may for example specify a user name utilized by the employee when accessing the user accessed system . Accordingly the reputation data processing system in an embodiment may maintain data that associates internal identifiers of employees with corresponding user names of the user accessed system . It should be noted however that the reputation data processing system and the user accessed system may utilize the same identifier for a single employee. For example the user accessed system may be an internal system of the organization and a single identifier may be used by the reputation data processing system and the user accessed system .

As noted above the reputation data processing system may obtain data from the user accessed system in other ways such as by requesting a web page of the user accessed system and processing data from the web page accordingly. In another example the reputation data processing system may request data in batches. For example the organization may maintain an account with the user accessed system . The reputation data processing system may then for example submit an API call requesting current data for the account such as data for all employees of the organization having an account with the user accessed system . Generally the reputation data processing system may obtain data from the user accessed system in any suitable manner including in manners not explicitly described herein. In addition the data processing system may determine which received data to store in a persistent manner.

Data that has been stored and or processed by the reputation data processing system may be accessed by users of the organization and or users acting on behalf of the organization. Such users may be users interested in compliance of the organization reputation of the organization and hiring for the organization and or generally any users who utilize the reputation data processing system as part of their activities. Users may access the reputation data processing system through a browser or other application configured to submit requests for presentations of data to the reputation data processing system which may then provide appropriate responses to the users.

The process in an embodiment includes accessing data for a first profile such as described above in connection with . Similarly process includes accessing data for a second profile such as described above in connection with . The first profile may be a profile known to be associated with a particular individual such as an employee of an organization. The second profile may be a profile that is a candidate for a profile that is associated with the same individual. The first and second profiles may be profiles of different social networks or generally of different data sources. The second profile may be identified in numerous ways. For example a name and or other information of associated with the individual may be used to construct a search query that is submitted to identify profiles. Using the individual s name as an example the second profile can be a profile from a set of profiles identified by a search engine as being associated with the same or similar name. Additional data such as a location e.g. city state or other identifier of a geographic area may be used to construct more specific search queries. Generally however the second profile may be identified in any suitable manner. Further it should be noted that the data available for the second profile may differ from the data available for the first profile. For example if the first and second profiles are from different data sources the data sources may be configured to provide different data sets. Also different access rights may enable differing sets of information accessible. For example an employee of the organization may have installed a white label application generated by the organization and as a result granted access to a larger set of information for the first profile than would otherwise be accessible to the organization. It should be noted and understood that the second profile i.e. the candidate profile for a match can be from the same social network as the first but not an identical profile as the first.

Returning to the process a determination may be made whether the second profile is identified by the first profile. For example it may be determined that the first profile belongs to an employee of an organization. The employee may have indicated that he or she owns the first profile. The first profile may include a data field that is populated with a uniform resource locator URL and or other identifier for the second profile. As noted the first profile may be part of one social network system and the second profile may be from another social networking system and the first social networking system may enable users to identify profiles they own of other social networking systems.

If it is determined that the second profile is identified by the first profile then the second profile is marked as matching the first profile. Marking the second profile as matching the first profile may include storing data in a database or other data storage system that indicates that the second profile and the first profile match. If it is determined that the second profile is not identified by the first profile then one or more match heuristics are calculated to determine whether the profiles match. A match score is then calculated based at least in part on the calculated profile match heuristics. The match score may be a function of the heuristics that have been calculated. In particular the match score may be discussed above either in the Boolean domain or the 0 1 range or may be based at least in part on .

The match score may be used to make a determination whether there is a match. In an embodiment determining whether there is a match includes comparing the match score with a reference value to determine whether the match score exceeds the reference value. For instance using in the 0 1 range discussed above if is greater than 0.5 it may be determined that there is a match. Other reference values may also be used. For example values greater than 0.5 may be used if it is more important in a particular context to be sure that there is a match. If it is determined that there is a match the second profile may be marked as matching the first profile such as described above. Similarly if it is determined that there is not a match the second profile may be marked as not matching the first profile such as described above.

It should be noted that if it is determined that there is not a match the second profile may not be marked as not matching the first profile. However marking the second profile as not matching the first profile may be useful for example in instances where the process is performed multiple times. In this manner performing the process for the same set of profiles repeatedly and unnecessarily may be avoided by marking the second profile as not matching the first profile.

As noted numerous heuristics may be calculated to determine whether or not two profiles match. accordingly shows an illustrative example of a process which may be used to calculate a particular heuristic. In particular the process includes analyzing attributes of profiles to determine whether the attributes match and depending on the number of matching attributes calculating the heuristic. In an embodiment the process includes obtaining attributes for a first profile. Obtaining attributes for the first profile may be performed in any suitable manner such as by calculating the attributes and or accessing the attributes which have been pre calculated from a data store. Example attributes are described below.

The process in an embodiment also includes accessing data for the second profile. Accessing data for the second profile may be performed in any suitable manner such as by obtaining data from an external source such as described above in connection with . The data for the second profile may then be processed to generate attributes for the second profile. Processing the data for the second profile may be performed in any suitable manner and the manner may depend on whether or not the data is structured or unstructured. For example for structured data data mapping data fields of the second profile to another schema may be used. As an example analysis may determine whether or not the profile includes an e mail address for an owner of the second profile. Other attributes may include names of locations names of institutions such as organizations in which an owner of the profile alleges to have worked educational institutions which an owner of the second profile alleges to have attended and the like. Numerous techniques may be used to process the data for the first and or second profile. For example structured and or unstructured data may be analyzed using entity identification techniques often referred to as Named entity recognition NER techniques and entity extraction techniques . Example techniques include those utilized in the OpenNLP NameFinder the Illinois NER system the Stanford NER system and the Lingpipe NER system and or combinations thereof. For example such NER techniques may be used to extract information from structured semi structured and or structured profile data which may come from the profiles themselves or information available from the profile such as resumes or separate biographical summaries. The information extracted may be for instance school names job titles and the like.

In an embodiment the process includes identifying attributes of the second profile matching attributes of the first profile. A heuristic may then be calculated based at least in part on the matching attributes. Attributes may be weighted depending on their reliability and or uniqueness. For example e mail addresses are generally unique to individuals and therefore e mail addresses matching may be weighted higher than other data which may not be as reliable or as unique. For example user names are often not unique to individuals. One individual may use a particular user name in one social network and another may use the same user name in a second social network. In this manner a matching user name may be weighted less. Similarly names of locations that do not match may be weighted less because individuals often move from place to place and neglect to update social network profiles. In addition many people may live in the same location. Therefore the existence or lack of a match in location attributes may not be weighted as heavily as other data. Phone numbers matching also may generally be reliable although not certainly so as people may stop using a particular phone number and a phone company may provide that phone number for use by another person. Generally the heuristic may be calculated in any suitable manner and the calculated heuristic may then be stored .

Many social network systems allow users to express interest in various things. For example companies often maintain their own social networking profiles. Users may express interest in that company through a user interface of a social networking system. For example the company Facebook allows users to like various things where a like is an electronic expression of interest in something. Other items in which users may express interest may include photographs quotations sports teams institutions organizations individuals and or generally anything that may be represented by data. Accordingly shows an illustrative example of a process for calculating a heuristic based on whether two profiles indicate expressions of interest for common things. The process in an embodiment includes obtaining expressions of interest for a first profile. For example using the social network Facebook as an example the likes stored with the first profile may be obtained. Similarly process includes obtaining expressions of interest for the second profile.

The process may then include identifying matching expressions of interest. For example if the first profile and second profile both indicate an expression of interest in a particular sports team there may be a match. Similarly if the first profile indicates an expression of interest in a profile of an individual and the second profile indicates an expression of interest in a profile that is determined to be for the same individual there may be a match.

The process may then include calculating a heuristic based on the matching expressions of interest and the number of matches. Some matching expressions of interest may be weighted higher than others. For example some items obtain relatively a lot of expressions of interest. Millions of users for example may have expressed interest in a particular product or sports team. Thus it is not uncommon for two profiles to have expressions of interest in the same profile. On the other hand it is less likely that two profiles that are unrelated will express interest in the same relatively unknown individual. In this manner the actual total expressions of interest in an overall community may also be used in calculating the heuristic. Calculation of a heuristic may be for instance score determined based on the number of expressions of interest for both profiles and the number of total expressions of interest e.g. among the general public . The heuristic may be calculated for example such that higher numbers of total expressions of interest affect the heuristic less than lower numbers because higher numbers of total expressions of interest make coincidental common expressions of interest in both profiles more likely . Similarly the heuristic may also be calculated such that greater numbers of expressions of interest in both profiles cause the heuristic to be higher. As above the calculated heuristic may then be stored in a data store and used for various purposes such as for calculating a match score for the two profiles.

As noted one heuristic that may be used is based at least in part on the number of connections in common among two profiles. shows an illustrative example of a process for calculating a heuristic based on social network connections. This process in an embodiment includes obtaining profile connections for a first profile. Similarly process includes obtaining profile connections for a second profile. Matches between connections for the first profile and the second profile may then be identified . Identifying matching connections may be performed in various ways. For example when the first and second profiles are from different social networks various analysis including profile matching techniques may be performed to make determinations regarding connections in common. For example if the first profile is connected to a profile for someone claiming to be John Smith in a first social network and the second profiles is connected to a profile for someone claiming to be John Smith in a second social network various analysis techniques including those described herein may be used to determine whether the two profiles for John Smith are the same profile.

In an embodiment once the matching connections between the two profiles are identified a heuristic is calculated based at least in part on the number of connections identified in common. As illustrated the heuristic is also calculated based at least in part on the connections themselves. For example some connections in common are more likely to indicate a matching profile than others. For instance many companies maintain social network profiles in multiple social networks. Such profiles often have thousands or even millions of connections. Accordingly such connections in common are less likely to indicate matching profiles than connections to profiles that have relatively fewer total connections. Accordingly connections in common may be weighted based at least in part on those connections total number of connections. Thus if a connection in common itself has many connections such a connection would affect the heuristic less than a connection in common that itself has fewer connections. As with other heuristics once calculated the calculated heuristic may be stored in a data store.

As noted techniques of the present disclosure include determining whether profiles match using various image processing techniques. Many social networks and other information sources allow users to post and perform other activities with electronic images. Users of Facebook for example are able to post pictures for others to see. shows an illustrative example of a process for calculating a heuristic based at least in part on such images. In an embodiment the process includes obtaining images associated with a first profile and obtaining images associated with a second profile such as by using techniques described above involving obtaining data for profiles.

In an embodiment the obtained images are processed to identify faces in the images. Any suitable image processing technique or combination of techniques may be used. Example techniques include Principal Component Analysis using eigenfaces neuronal motivated dynamic link matching Linear Discriminate Analysis the Hidden Markov model and Elastic Bunch Graph Matching using the Fisherface algorithm and or others.

Once processed matching faces between images associated with the first profile and images associated with the second profiles are identified . Identifying the matching faces may be performed in any suitable manner which may depend on the technique or techniques used to identify the faces. Generally however matching faces may be performed by checking the faces of the images of the first profile against the faces of the images of the second profile to determine which faces are calculated to belong to the same person.

Once matches have been identified a heuristic may be calculated based at least in part on the number of matches. Calculation of the heuristic may be performed such that more matches correspond to a higher heuristic value. Once calculated the calculated heuristic may be stored in a data store for uses such as described above.

Some tools may allow for users of social network and other electronic environments to concurrently post content to two social networks. A tweet by a user for example may be posted to a Facebook page of the user. Such tools may for example be third party applications that detect content postings for one electronic environment and utilize an API of the other electronic environment to post the content or content based at least in part on the posted content to the second electronic environment. In addition in some instances users may manually post the same content in two electronic environments. A user may for instance consider a news article to be particularly interesting and may separately use two different interfaces e.g. smartphone application interface and or web interface through a web browser to share the article in two separate social networks such as Facebook and LinkedIn.

As illustrated the process also includes obtaining content posted in connection with a second profile such as discussed above in connection with obtaining content posted in connected with the first profile. The second profile may be from an electronic environment that is different from an electronic environment hosting the first profile. However in performance of the process other processes described herein and variations thereof the first profile and second profile may be from the same electronic environment. As just one example the first profile and second profile may both be from the same social network. If the profiles match the same individual it may be due to the individual having created two separate profiles in the same social network perhaps to separate a profile disclosed to an employer from a profile undisclosed to the employer to be used for more social activity. Further while shows obtaining content in connection with the first profile being performed before obtaining content in connection with the second profile the order may be different and obtaining content may be performed in parallel e.g. through two concurrent server connections.

Once the content posted in connection with the first and second profiles have been obtained in an embodiment instances of content posted in connection with both profiles may be identified . Identifying content posted in connection with both profiles may be performed in any suitable manner. For example for textual content a text search for some or all text in an instance of content posted in connection with one profile may be performed against instances of content posted in connection with the second profile. With non textual content appropriate techniques may be employed. For example if an instance of content for one profile includes a file name or other identifier URL e.g. the file name or other identifier can be searched against instances of content of the other profile. As another example hash values or other signatures may be calculated for instances of content of both profiles and checks for matching hash values may be performed. Generally any method for checking whether content from one profile matches content from the other may be used.

In an embodiment the process includes calculating the number of instances of content posted in connection with both profiles within a threshold time of each other. The threshold may be some value selected to indicate concurrency such as one minute five minutes or some other time duration. The duration may also be a configurable parameter for example configurable by a user of a user interface used in connection with a reputation data processing system such as described above. A user may for instance increase the value to identify more matches and decrease the value to locate less matches but ones that are posted closer to one another and therefore more indicative of matching profiles. Accordingly in an embodiment a heuristic is calculated based at least in part on the calculated number of instances of content posted in connection with both profiles within the threshold time of each other. The heuristic may be a score configured to increase with increased numbers of matches. The score may be bounded in some embodiments e.g. confined to the range 0 1 or in other embodiments may be unbounded. Other factors such as the total number of posts may also be used in calculating the heuristic. For example the heuristic may be or be based at least in part on a ratio of matches to total posts thereby causing the heuristic to increase when a greater percentage of posts match both profiles.

As with other processes described herein additional variations are considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure and not all variations are explicitly described. For example another mechanism for matching can be based on links found in the profiles as correlating attributes. For example a Facebook profile and a LinkedIn profile that contain a large intersection of sets of hyperlinks are likely to be related. Many social networks allow users to specify a personal website. Therefore if two or more profiles specify the same personal site they are likely strongly correlated. So like using images or other content as described above hyperlinks within the profiles can also be the basis of identifying matches and calculating heuristics. Stated another way calculating one or more heuristics can comprise obtaining a set of hyperlinks posted in connection with the first profile obtaining a set of hyperlinks posted in connection with the second profile identifying hyperlinks posted in connection with the first profile that at least partially matches hyperlinks posted in connection with the second profile calculating a number of matching hyperlinks that are posted to both the first profile and the second profile and calculating a heuristic based at least in part on the calculated number of matching hyperlinks. Once again additional variations are considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure and not all variations are explicitly described.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computer system communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses.

Network interface subsystem provides an interface to other computer systems networks and portals. Network interface subsystem serves as an interface for receiving data from and transmitting data to other systems from computer system . The network interface subsystem for example may enable the computer system to communicate with other computer systems over a network such as to obtain data from various data sources and or to communicate with other components of a reputation data processing system.

User interface input devices may include a keyboard pointing devices such as a mouse trackball touchpad or graphics tablet a scanner a barcode scanner a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In general use of the term input device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for inputting information to computer system . A user may use an input device to provide user input to interact with a user interface to perform various activities described above. For example a user may use an input device to view profiles determined to match or potentially match other profiles. In addition the user may use an input device to input determinations whether calculations of whether profiles match are correct thereby causing a reputation data processing system or other system to operate accordingly such as by using data from a profile determined to match a known profile or by not using data from a profile determined to be a mismatch.

User interface output devices may include a display subsystem a printer a fax machine or non visual displays such as audio output devices etc. The display subsystem may be a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display a projection device and or another device capable of presenting information. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for outputting information from computer system . Presentations generated in accordance with the various embodiments described herein for example may be presented using output devices . Various presentations may for instance present profiles of social network users and or information associated therewith to users of the computer system .

Storage subsystem provides a computer readable medium for storing the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of the present invention. Software programs code modules instructions that when executed by a processor provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in storage subsystem . These software modules or instructions may be executed by processor s . Storage subsystem may also provide a repository for storing data used in accordance with the present invention for example the data stored in the diagnostic data repository. For example storage subsystem provides a storage medium for persisting data that is analyzed to calculate various reputation metrics and or reputation values. Storage subsystem may comprise memory subsystem and file disk storage subsystem .

Memory subsystem may include a number of memory components including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. File storage subsystem provides persistent non volatile storage for program and data files and may include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media a Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM drive an optical drive removable media cartridges and other like storage media.

Computer system can be of various types including a personal computer a portable computer a smartphone a table computing device a workstation a network computer a mainframe a kiosk a server or any other data processing system. Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in is intended only as a specific example for purposes of illustrating the preferred embodiment of the computer system. Many other configurations having more or fewer components than the system depicted in are possible.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described various modifications alterations alternative constructions and equivalents are also encompassed within the scope of the invention. Embodiments of the present invention are not restricted to operation within certain specific data processing environments but are free to operate within a plurality of data processing environments. Additionally although embodiments of the present invention have been described using a particular series of transactions and steps it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the scope of the present invention is not limited to the described series of transactions and steps.

Further while embodiments of the present invention have been described using a particular combination of hardware and software it should be recognized that other combinations of hardware and software are also within the scope of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented only in hardware or only in software or using combinations thereof.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that additions subtractions deletions and other modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the claims.

