---

title: Operational reliability systems and methods
abstract: An operational reliability system includes a flight grouping module, a block modification module, and a pairing optimizer. The system evaluates potential modifications to scheduled flight block time and quantifies associated changes in on-time performance B. The system also evaluates the impact of block modifications to headcount, regulatory compliance, operating expenses, and so forth. Via use of the operational reliability system, compliance with external regulations, for example Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR), may be achieved with a higher degree of probability.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135670&OS=09135670&RS=09135670
owner: US Airways, Inc.
number: 09135670
owner_city: Tempe
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130814
---
The present disclosure generally relates to operational reliability and more particularly to analysis methods and tools suitable for use in crew planning.

Transportation industries e.g. airlines often operate under regulatory guidelines related to among others flight and duty time limitations rest requirements fitness for duty requirements and the like. These guidelines can vary over time. On one hand compliance with updated guidelines may be achieved with revisions to staffing approaches flight schedules and or the like. On the other hand such revisions can be time consuming lead to reduced revenue increased staffing expenses and otherwise present organizational challenges. Accordingly improved approaches for operating in accordance with regulatory guidelines e.g. Federal Aviation Regulations and or the like remain desirable.

In an embodiment a method comprises obtaining by a processor for operational reliability a block file comprising historical information for a plurality of flight groups. Each flight group has a scheduled block time and a historical on time performance B. The method further comprises determining by the processor a modified block time for each flight group and generating by the processor a modified block file containing the modified block time for each flight group.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium has computer executable instructions stored thereon that in response to execution by a processor for operational reliability causes the processor to perform operations comprising obtaining by a processor for operational reliability a block file comprising historical information for a plurality of flight groups each flight group having a scheduled block time and a historical on time performance B determining by the processor a modified block time for each flight group and generating by the processor a modified block file containing the modified block time for each flight group.

The following description is of various embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the present disclosure in any way. Rather the following description is intended to provide a convenient illustration for implementing various embodiments including the best mode. As will become apparent various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of the elements described in these embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure or appended claims.

For the sake of brevity conventional techniques for data management computer networking software application development forecasting block adjustment operations management statistical analysis and other aspects of exemplary systems and methods and components thereof and or the like may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in various figures contained herein are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical or communicative couplings between various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical or communicative connections may be present in a practical operational reliability system.

Airlines continually face challenges associated with the efficient planning scheduling and utilization of assets e.g. aircraft flight crews cabin crews and or the like . Additionally federal regulations e.g. Federal Aviation Regulation FAR govern the approaches an airline may permissibly implement for example by prescribing flight and duty limitations and rest requirements for crew members. Compliance with these limitations particularly when these limitations are made stricter can impose significant costs on an airline. In particular while weather and other factors can impose significant variability in airline flight duration and hence variability in lineholder hours logged for a particular day the need for regulatory compliance does not vary. Accordingly it remains desirable to provide improved methods and systems for operational reliability for example in order to reduce risk of regulatory violations while limiting additional expenses incurred in connection with the same.

Prior approaches to operational reliability typically employed only a single global buffer for a lineholder. In other words a lineholder s scheduled flight time duty time and rest time were considered monolithically when determining an appropriate buffer to ensure compliance with regulatory guidelines while allowing for daily variability in actual flight performance and thus actual flight duty time for that workday . Additionally prior regulatory approaches were more flexible reducing the need for aggressive buffering to maintain compliance.

In contrast features of the present disclosure are suitable for use in connection with stricter regulatory schemes for example wherein hard limits on flight duty time are imposed. Additionally principles of the present disclosure contemplate buffering flight time rest time and flight duty time interdependently in order to achieve improved regulatory compliance outcomes while limiting additional lineholder expenses.

In accordance with various embodiments operational reliability systems and methods enable improved regulatory compliance while limiting increased lineholder expense. In various embodiments rather than applying a single overall buffer exemplary operational reliability systems and methods are configured to buffer flight time rest time and flight duty time interdependently.

While the present disclosure discusses airlines flights pilots flight attendants and the like for purposes of convenience and illustration one of skill in the art will appreciate that the operational reliability methods systems and tools disclosed herein are broadly applicable for example to industries that operate under government imposed or other staffing restrictions and regulations.

Various embodiments employ forecasting statistical analysis and or optimization techniques. For more information regarding such techniques refer to for example The Theory and Practice of Revenue Management International Series in Operations Research Management Science by Kalyan T. Talluri and Garrett J. van Ryzin Using Multivariate Statistics 5th Edition by Barbara G. Tabachnick and Linda S. Fidell and Introduction to Operations Research by Friedrich S. Hiller and Gerald J. Lieberman McGraw Hill 7th edition Mar. 22 2002 the contents of which are each hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties for any purpose.

In various embodiments exemplary operational reliability systems include a user interface UI software modules logic engines various databases interfaces to systems and tools and or computer networks. While exemplary operational reliability systems may contemplate upgrades or reconfigurations of existing processing systems changes to existing databases and system tools are not necessarily required by principles of the present disclosure.

The benefits provided by features of the present disclosure include for example reduced flight cancellations reduced staffing requirements lower payroll costs increased planning and operational efficiency increased employee morale and the like. For example a crew planning organization benefits from improved forecasting accuracy and resulting decreased payroll expenses.

As used herein an entity may include any individual software program business organization government entity web site system hardware and or any other entity. A user may include any entity that interacts with a system and or participates in a process.

Turning now to in accordance with various embodiments a user may perform tasks such as requesting retrieving receiving updating analyzing and or modifying data. User may also perform tasks such as initiating manipulating interacting with or using a software application tool module or hardware and initiating receiving or sending a communication. User may interface with Internet server via any communication protocol device or method discussed herein known in the art or later developed. User may be for example a member of a crew planning organization a member of an operations research or systems analysis organization a downstream system an upstream system a third party system a system administrator and or the like.

In various embodiments a system may include a user interfacing with an operational reliability system by way of a client . Operational reliability system may be a partially or fully integrated system comprised of various subsystems modules and databases. Client comprises any hardware and or software suitably configured to facilitate entering accessing requesting retrieving updating analyzing and or modifying data. The data may include operational data e.g. schedules resources routes operational alerts weather etc. human resource data for example on duty and off duty days for pilots and flight attendants passenger data cost data forecasts historical data verification data asset e.g. airplane data inventory e.g. airplane seat data legal regulatory data authentication data demographic data transaction data or any other suitable information discussed herein.

Client includes any device e.g. a computer which communicates in any manner discussed herein with operational reliability system via any network or protocol discussed herein. Browser applications comprise Internet browsing software installed within a computing unit or system to conduct online communications and transactions. These computing units or systems may take the form of personal computers mobile phones personal digital assistants mobile email devices tablets laptops notebooks hand held computers portable computers kiosks and or the like. Practitioners will appreciate that client may or may not be in direct contact with operational reliability system . For example client may access the services of operational reliability system through another server which may have a direct or indirect connection to Internet server . Practitioners will further recognize that client may present interfaces associated with a software application e.g. analytic software or module that are provided to client via application graphical user interfaces GUIs or other interfaces and are not necessarily associated with or dependent upon Internet browsers or internet specific protocols.

User may communicate with operational reliability system through a firewall for example to help ensure the integrity of operational reliability system components. Internet server may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to facilitate communications between the client and one or more operational reliability system components.

Firewall as used herein may comprise any hardware and or software suitably configured to protect operational reliability system components from users of other networks. Firewall may reside in varying configurations including stateful inspection proxy based and packet filtering among others. Firewall may be integrated as software within Internet server any other system component or may reside within another computing device or may take the form of a standalone hardware component.

Authentication server may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to receive authentication credentials encrypt and decrypt credentials authenticate credentials and or grant access rights according to pre defined privileges associated with the credentials. Authentication server may grant varying degrees of application and or data level access to users based on information stored within authentication database and user database . Application server may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to serve applications and data to a connected client .

In accordance with various embodiments operational reliability system is usable to generate suggested buffers for crew staffing manage crew staffing strategy evaluate risk associated with a particular crew staffing strategy generate inputs to other forecasting systems and or the like. Continuing to reference operational reliability system allows communication with central data repository CDR and with various other databases tools UIs and systems for example external systems and databases . Such systems include for example airline scheduling systems passenger booking and reservations systems human resource systems revenue management systems inventory systems and or the like.

Operational reliability system components may be interconnected and communicate with one another to allow for a completely integrated operational reliability system. In various embodiments operational reliability system formulates suggested block modifications and or associated expense and or revenue consequences at a per flight level and or a flight group level. Crew scheduling systems may generate bidlines and or otherwise make staffing decisions based at least in part upon the output of operational reliability system .

In various embodiments operational reliability system modules e.g. flight grouping module block adjustment module and or pairing optimizer are software modules configured to enable online functions such as sending and receiving messages receiving query requests configuring responses dynamically configuring user interfaces requesting data receiving data displaying data executing complex processes calculations forecasts mathematical techniques workflows and or algorithms prompting user verifying user responses authenticating the user initiating operational reliability system processes initiating other software modules triggering downstream systems and processes encrypting and decrypting and or the like. Additionally operational reliability system modules may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to receive requests from client via Internet server and application server .

Operational reliability system modules may be further configured to process requests execute transactions construct database queries and or execute queries against databases within system e.g. central data repository CDR external data sources and or temporary databases. In various embodiments one or more operational reliability system modules may be configured to execute application programming interfaces in order to communicate with a variety of messaging platforms such as email systems wireless communications systems mobile communications systems multimedia messaging service MMS systems short messaging service SMS systems and the like.

Operational reliability system modules may be configured to exchange data with other systems and application modules for example a scheduling system that generates monthly work flight schedules for lineholders in order to cover a particular airline flight schedule a flight schedule system a crew bid system and or the like. In various embodiments operational reliability system modules may be configured to interact with other system components to perform complex calculations retrieve additional data format data into reports create XML representations of data construct markup language documents construct define or control UIs and or the like. Moreover operational reliability system modules may reside as standalone systems or tools or may be incorporated with the application server or any other operational reliability system component as program code. As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate operational reliability system modules may be logically or physically divided into various subcomponents such as a workflow engine configured to evaluate predefined rules and to automate processes.

In addition to the components described above operational reliability system may further include one or more of the following a host server or other computing systems including a processor for processing digital data a memory coupled to the processor for storing digital data an input digitizer coupled to the processor for inputting digital data an application program stored in the memory and accessible by the processor for directing processing of digital data by the processor a display device coupled to the processor and memory for displaying information derived from digital data processed by the processor a plurality of databases and or the like.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art one or more system components may be embodied as a customization of an existing system an add on product upgraded software a stand alone system e.g. kiosk a distributed system a method a data processing system a device for data processing and or a computer program product. Accordingly individual system components may take the form of an entirely software embodiment an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining aspects of both software and hardware. Furthermore individual system components may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code means embodied in the storage medium. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disks optical storage devices e.g. DVD ROM CD ROM etc. electronic storage devices e.g. flash memory and or the like.

Client may include an operating system e.g. Windows UNIX Linux Solaris MacOS iOS Android Windows Mobile OS Windows CE Palm OS Symbian OS Blackberry OS J2ME etc. as well as various conventional support software and drivers typically associated with mobile devices and or computers. Client may be in any environment with access to any network including both wireless and wired network connections. In various embodiments access is through a network or the Internet through a commercially available web browser software package. Client and operational reliability system components may be independently separately or collectively suitably coupled to the network via data links which include for example a connection to an Internet Service Provider ISP over the local loop as is typically used in connection with standard wireless communications networks and or methods such as modem communication cable modem satellite networks ISDN digital subscriber line DSL and or the like. In various embodiments any portion of client may be partially or fully connected to a network using a wired hard wire connection. As those skilled in the art will appreciate client and or any of the system components may include wired and or wireless portions.

In various embodiments components modules and or engines of operational reliability system may be implemented as micro applications or micro apps. Micro apps are typically deployed in the context of a mobile operating system including for example a Palm mobile operating system a Windows mobile operating system an Android Operating System Apple iOS a Blackberry operating system and the like. The micro app may be configured to leverage the resources of the larger operating system and associated hardware via a set of predetermined rules which govern the operations of various operating systems and hardware resources. For example where a micro app desires to communicate with a device or network other than the mobile device or mobile operating system the micro app may leverage the communication protocol of the operating system and associated device hardware under the predetermined rules of the mobile operating system. Moreover where the micro app desires an input from a user the micro app may be configured to request a response from the operating system which monitors various hardware components and then communicates a detected input from the hardware to the micro app.

Internet server may be configured to transmit data to client for example within markup language documents. Data may include encompassing information such as commands messages transaction requests queries files data for storage and or the like in digital or any other form. Internet server may operate as a single entity in a single geographic location or as separate computing components located together or in separate geographic locations. Further Internet server may provide a suitable web site or other Internet based graphical user interface which is accessible by users such as user . In various embodiments Microsoft Internet Information Server IIS Microsoft Transaction Server MTS and Microsoft SQL Server are used in conjunction with a Microsoft operating system Microsoft NT web server software a Microsoft SQL Server database system and a Microsoft Commerce Server. In various embodiments the well known LAMP stack Linux Apache MySQL and PHP Perl Python are used to enable operational reliability system . Additionally components such as Access or Microsoft SQL Server Oracle Sybase InterBase etc. may be used to provide an Active Data Object ADO compliant database management system.

Like Internet server application server may communicate with any number of other servers databases and or components through any means known in the art. Further application server may serve as a conduit between client and the various systems and components of operational reliability system . Internet server may interface with application server through any means known in the art including a LAN WAN for example. Application server may further invoke software modules such as flight grouping module block adjustment module and or pairing optimizer automatically or in response to user requests.

Any of the communications inputs storage databases or displays discussed herein may be facilitated through a web site having web pages. The term web page as it is used herein is not meant to limit the type of documents and applications that may be used to interact with the user. For example a typical web site may include in addition to standard HTML documents various forms Java applets JavaScript active server pages ASP common gateway interface scripts CGI Flash files or modules FLEX ActionScript extensible markup language XML dynamic HTML cascading style sheets CSS helper applications plug ins and or the like. A server may include a web service that receives a request from a web server the request including a URL e.g. http yahoo.com and or an interne protocol IP address. The web server retrieves the appropriate web pages and sends the data or applications for the web pages to the IP address. Web services are applications that are capable of interacting with other applications over a communications means such as the Internet. Web services are typically based on standards or protocols such as XML SOAP WSDL and UDDI. Web services methods are well known in the art and are covered in many standard texts. See e.g. Alex Nghiem IT Web Services A Roadmap for the Enterprise 2003 .

Continuing to reference illustrated are databases that are included in various embodiments. An exemplary list of various databases used herein includes an authentication database a user database CDR and or other databases that aid in the functioning of the system. As practitioners will appreciate while depicted as separate and or independent entities for the purposes of illustration databases residing within system may represent multiple hardware software database data structure and networking components. Furthermore embodiments are not limited to the databases described herein nor do embodiments necessarily utilize each of the disclosed databases.

Authentication database may store information used in the authentication process such as for example user identifiers passwords access privileges user preferences user statistics and the like. User database maintains user information and credentials for operational reliability system users e.g. user .

In various embodiments CDR is a data repository that may be configured to store a wide variety of comprehensive data for operational reliability system . While depicted as a single logical entity in those of skill in the art will appreciate that CDR may in various embodiments consist of multiple physical and or logical data sources. In various embodiments CDR stores operational data schedules resource data asset data inventory data personnel information routes and route plans station e.g. airports or other terminals data operational alert data weather information passenger data reservation data cost data optimization results booking class data forecasts historical data verification data authentication data demographic data legal data regulatory data transaction data security profiles access rules content analysis rules audit records predefined rules process definitions financial data and the like.

Any databases discussed herein may include relational hierarchical graphical or object oriented structure and or any other database configurations. Common database products that may be used to implement the databases include DB2 by IBM Armonk N.Y. various database products available from Oracle Corporation Redwood Shores Calif. Microsoft Access or Microsoft SQL Server by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. My SQL by My SQL AB Uppsala Sweden or any other suitable database product. Moreover the databases may be organized in any suitable manner for example as data tables or lookup tables. Each record may be a single file a series of files a linked series of data fields or any other data structure. Association of certain data may be accomplished through any desired data association technique such as those known or practiced in the art. For example the association may be accomplished either manually or automatically. Automatic association techniques may include for example a database search a database merge GREP AGREP SQL using a key field in the tables to speed searches sequential searches through all the tables and files sorting records in the file according to a known order to simplify lookup and or the like. The association step may be accomplished by a database merge function for example using a key field in pre selected databases or data sectors. Various database tuning steps are contemplated to optimize database performance. For example frequently used files such as indexes may be placed on separate file systems to reduce In Out I O bottlenecks.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that for security reasons any databases systems devices servers or other components of system may consist of any combination thereof at a single location or at multiple locations wherein each database or system includes any of various suitable security features such as firewalls access codes encryption decryption compression decompression and or the like.

The systems and methods may be described herein in terms of functional block components screen shots optional selections and various processing steps. It should be appreciated that such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example the system may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements processing elements logic elements look up tables and the like which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. Similarly the software elements of the system may be implemented with any programming or scripting language such as C C C Java JavaScript Flash ActionScript FLEX VBScript Macromedia Cold Fusion COBOL Microsoft Active Server Pages assembly PERL SAS PHP awk Python Visual Basic SQL Stored Procedures PL SQL any UNIX shell script and or extensible markup language XML or the like with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures objects processes routines or other programming elements. Further it should be noted that the system may employ any number of conventional techniques for data transmission signaling data processing network control and the like. Still further the system may be used to detect or prevent security issues with a client side scripting language such as JavaScript VBScript or the like.

Software elements may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable data processing means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified herein or in flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations can be implemented by either special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or suitable combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. Further illustrations of the process flows and the descriptions thereof may make reference to user windows web pages web sites web forms prompts etc. Practitioners will appreciate that the illustrated steps described herein may comprise any number of configurations including the use of windows web pages web forms popup windows prompts and or the like. It should be further appreciated that the multiple steps as illustrated and described may be combined into single web pages and or windows but have been expanded for the sake of simplicity. In other cases steps illustrated and described as single process steps may be separated into multiple web pages and or windows but have been combined for simplicity.

With continued reference to in various embodiments user logs onto an application e.g. a module and Internet server may invoke an application server . Application server invokes logic in an operational reliability system module by passing parameters relating to user s requests for data. Operational reliability system manages requests for data from operational reliability system modules and or communicates with system components. Transmissions between user and Internet server may pass through a firewall to help ensure the integrity of operational reliability system components. Practitioners will appreciate that exemplary embodiments may incorporate any number of security schemes or none at all. In various embodiments Internet server receives requests from client and interacts with various other system components to perform tasks related to requests from client .

Internet server may invoke an authentication server to verify the identity of user and assign roles access rights and or permissions to user . In order to control access to the application server or any other component of operational reliability system Internet server may invoke an authentication server in response to user submissions of authentication credentials received at Internet server . In response to a request to access system being received from Internet server Internet server determines if authentication is required and transmits a prompt to client . User enters authentication data at client which transmits the authentication data to Internet server . Internet server passes the authentication data to authentication server which queries the user database for corresponding credentials. In response to user being authenticated user may access various applications and their corresponding data sources.

With reference now to in various embodiments operational reliability system and or method utilizes an optimization model for staffing which balances improvements in reliability with increases in cost. In an embodiment operational reliability system utilizes historical information for a flight or group of related flights to determine a suitable buffer for insuring regulatory compliance. Consequently operational reliability system allows users for example crew planners to establish an acceptable likelihood of regulatory compliance for a particular staffing approach while avoiding unnecessary staffing expenses associated with overstaffing or underutilizing existing staff .

With reference now to an airline employee e.g. a pilot flight crew member or the like is typically scheduled to work a series of flights during a particular flight duty period. In the exemplary schedule illustrated in a crew member is scheduled to work three flights having a combined scheduled flight block time of 8.75 hours and a combined scheduled connection time of 1.75 hours for a total scheduled block time of 10.5 hours in the exemplary flight duty period. However in it can be seen that each flight leg in the employee schedule has a different on time performance B which is the percentage of time that for a given flight the scheduled block time is less than or equal to the actual block time. Thus for example it can be seen that the flight from City B to City C has a scheduled block time of 3.5 hours however this block time is achieved only 54 of the time and thus the actual block time for this flight is greater than 3.5 hours 46 of the time . Because the flights in this exemplary employee schedule are highly variable with respect to block time the employee has a heightened risk of exceeding a regulatory limit for flight duty time for example as detailed in FAR .

Accordingly in various embodiments operational reliability system is configured to revise and or modify block times for a flight or series of flights rest periods or flight duty times. In this manner operational reliability system is usable to determine a modification to a scheduled block time for a flight or series of flights in order to obtain a desired B. Moreover operational reliability system is configured to obtain a desired Bin an efficient manner stated another way operational reliability system is configured to obtain a desired Bwhile limiting increased staffing expenses. Stated differently operational reliability system may be configured to provide an answer to the question How much scheduled block time should be allocated to a particular flight group in order to achieve a desired predicted level of on time performance and the question What is the expense associated with the additional block time 

By way of comparison prior approaches to achieving operational reliability for example a global buffer approach often result in buffering for flights that do not require it resulting in needless on duty staff time. As a result these prior approaches tend to cause underutilization of staff and excessive staffing expenses.

With reference now to an exemplary distribution of historical Bperformance for a group of 4 507 flights is illustrated. For the exemplary flights it can be seen that the mean Bhas a value of 66 and a standard deviation of 10.5 the bottom performing 20 of flights have a Bof 55 or lower. For these flights with a low B utilizing conventional approaches for pairing lineholders with assignments results in significantly increased risk for example risk of a violation of FAR due to variability in flight time.

Returning now to in various embodiments operational reliability system utilizes flight grouping module to group flights for statistical assessment. When data are highly aggregated trends and meaningful metrics may be obscured and or lost due to averaging conversely when data are highly granular trends and meaningful metrics may be difficult to analyze due to small sample size the analysis may be misleading due to inconsistency of data and statistical techniques may be limited in application. Accordingly in various embodiments flight grouping module is configured to group flights via an approach that minimizes or reduces variance within the group maximizes or increases variance between the groups and provides a statistically significant sample size in each group. In an embodiment flight grouping module groups flights by departure station arrival station departure time day of the week weekend or weekday and season regular summer holiday and so forth . Flight grouping module may group flights by any suitable criteria in order to make statistically significant comparisons between and or within groups.

Turning now to in various exemplary embodiments operational reliability system utilizes a method for block modification configured to provide suggested modified block times for a flight or series of flights. A parsed SSIM file is utilized as an input to flight grouping module and block adjustment module . The SSIM file may contain for example airline flight schedule information fleet type identifier arrival time departure time flight city pair aircraft next leg information and so forth. Flight grouping module assesses the SSIM file and generates a set of flight groupings step . Block adjustment module utilizes the SSIM file and the set of flight groupings to generate modified blocks on a per group basis step and generate a modified SSIM file incorporating the modified blocks step . The modified SSIM file containing the modified blocks is utilized by pairing optimizer to assess the impact of the proposed modified blocks step for example the impact on headcount risk of FAR violation change in synthetic and the like.

As used herein synthetic may be understood to be for a particular crew member the difference between the actual duty rig time and compensated flight time. For example if a particular crew member s compensation agreement specifies 1 hour of flight pay for every 2 hours of duty time and on a particular day that crew member is scheduled to fly 5 hours and is on duty for 12 hours then for that particular day the crew member will receive 5 hours of flight pay and one hour of duty rig i.e. synthetic compensation.

If the proposed modified SSIM file is acceptable for example to a crew planning organization the method ends otherwise the process is repeated with block adjustment module generating further revised modified blocks for assessment. Method may be iterated until an acceptable solution is reached.

In an embodiment flight grouping module groups flights via a hashing algorithm. Flight grouping module may generate a hash for a particular station pair season week or weekend etc. Flight history data matching the hash may be utilized by block adjustment module to generate modified bocks for flights matching the hash. Moreover flight grouping module may be configured to group flights in any statistically suitable manner.

In various embodiments block adjustment module may employ one or more methods for block modification. In one embodiment with reference to block adjustment module utilizes a block modification method . In block modification method the average scheduled block for a group of flights is utilized step . Block adjustment module utilizes historical information to determine for those instances when the actual block time exceeds the scheduled block time the average difference between the actual block time and the scheduled block time step . The average difference is added to the average scheduled block time to obtain a modified block time step .

In another embodiment with reference to block adjustment module utilizes a block modification method . In block modification method the average actual block time for a group of flights is utilized step . Block adjustment module utilizes historical information to determine the standard deviation of the actual block times for the flights in the group of flights step . The standard deviation is added to the average actual block time to obtain a modified block time step .

In yet another embodiment with reference to block adjustment module utilizes a goal seeking block modification method . In block modification method a user inputs a desired Bas a goal. Block adjustment module evaluates if historical Bis greater than or equal to the goal i if YES the modified block time is set as the average scheduled block time step and the block buffer is set to the modified block time minus the average scheduled block time i.e. the block buffer is set to zero no buffer time was added step ii if NO the modified block time is set as the average scheduled block time plus one minute step . Block adjustment module then calculates a modified Bequal to the sum of instances where the actual block time is less than or equal to the modified block time divided by the number of flights in the group step . The modified Band desired Bare evaluated step . If modified Bis less than the desired B the average scheduled block is incremented by one minute and the process returns to step . The process repeats until modified Bis greater than or equal to the desired B. At that point the block buffer is set to the modified block time minus the average scheduled block time i.e. the block buffer is set to the number of minutes added to achieve the desired B step .

Table 1 below illustrates information for three exemplary flights. While principles of the present disclosure are discussed in connection with embodiments related to application of systems and methods for operational reliability to airline flights the following examples are by way of illustration and not of limitation.

Table 2 illustrates application of block modification method to exemplary flights 1 and 2 from Table 1.

Table 3 illustrates application of block modification method to exemplary flights 1 and 2 from Table 1.

Table 4 illustrates application of block modification method to the exemplary flights of Table 1 where B 65 is the input goal.

As illustrated in Table 4 in various embodiments method or a similar goal seeking algorithm may be utilized to determine a suitable number of minutes to add to a scheduled block time in order to achieve a desired B the desired Bmay be revised and or updated as desired for example responsive to changing regulatory guidelines responsive to a revised cost target responsive to changes in flight routes or physical infrastructure and or the like .

Table 5 illustrates comparative performance of block modification methods and on exemplary historical data for one airline over a 4 month period.

In operational reliability system one or more of methods and or may be utilized in order to suggest or determine a revision to a scheduled block time for a flight or group of flights. Moreover in various embodiments operational reliability system is configured to utilize a point of diminishing returns analysis when selecting a desired modified block time for a flight or group of flights. With momentary reference to in various embodiments block adjustment module is configured to determine the location on line having a maximum slope. In one embodiment block adjustment module iteratively adds one minute to the average scheduled block time value and calculates the resulting slope of line at that point. Once slopes are calculated for a desired range of potential minutes added to the average scheduled block time for example from 1 20 minutes added block adjustment module determines the location having the maximum slope. This location may be considered to be the point of diminishing returns additional increases in block time beyond this point result in reduced improvements in Bas compared to prior increases.

In various embodiments operational reliability system is configured to implement and or suggest revisions to block times configured to achieve operation at or near the point of diminishing returns. In other embodiments operational reliability system is configured to implement and or suggest revisions to block times configured to achieve operation above the point of diminishing returns for example in order to achieve a reduced likelihood of a FAR violation. In yet other embodiments operational reliability system is configured to implement and or suggest revisions to block times configured to achieve operation below the point of diminishing returns for example in order to implement an improvement to Bbased on a particular i.e. fixed or capped expenditure of money.

Returning again to in various embodiments pairing optimizer is configured to assess the output of block modification module . In one embodiment block modification module creates a schedule file e.g. a modified SSIM file for use in crew pairing optimization. For example in various exemplary embodiments block modification module receives a modified SSIM having modified block times as discussed hereinabove. Block modification module may add the modified block times on a per aircraft basis and evaluate the resulting effects for a particular time window into the future for example for one week going forward two weeks going forward one month going forward etc . Block modification module may thereafter incorporate one or more modified blocks into the modified SSIM file and pass the modified SSIM file to pairing uptimizer .

Returning again to in various embodiments pairing optimizer is configured to assess the output of block modification module . In certain embodiments pairing optimizer builds lineholder itineraries crew pairings based on a modified SSIM file created by block modification module for example by reconciling crew FAR rules contractual work rules and the like to the modified SSIM file. In various exemplary embodiments the modified SSIM file created by pairing optimizer is configured to be internal to an airline or subset thereof for example the modified SSIM file may not be public facing or crew facing. However in certain embodiments pairing optimizer may also reconcile lineholder itineraries with a flight schedule or other information provided to the public.

In certain exemplary embodiments crew pairings prepared by pairing optimizer via use of the modified SSIM file are re joined to the original unmodified SSIM file. The modified pairings incorporated into the unmodified SSIM file may be locked and thus prevented from further modification for example by a subsequent optimization algorithm applied to the unmodified SSIM file. In this manner operational reliability system prevents optimizing out the desirable pairings arising in consequence of the added buffer time.

It will be appreciated that crew pairings suggested by pairing optimizer may be incorporated into the unmodified SSIM file in part or in whole.

It will be appreciated that in various embodiments flight schedules visible to the public and or visible to airline crew members do not change as a result of operation of operational reliability system rather back end crew rule compliance evaluations for example compliance with FAR and with contractual requirements are modified to account for the modified block times. Stated another way crew itineraries do not change as a result of operation of operational reliability system i.e. a crew member schedule from city A city B city C remains the same but the values a crew member accrues for compliance purposes are different.

Operational reliability system enables improved risk allocation decisions and implementation. Viewed from a baseline cost and risk perspective operational reliability system allows modified and or reduced risk levels compared to the baseline to be obtained for a known cost over the baseline cost conversely operational reliability system also allows for operation at risk levels above the baseline for a known cost savings.

In operational reliability system variables and parameters such as Bmay be revised adjusted and or modified for example on a daily basis. Operational reliability system can thus quickly respond to external factors influencing on time performance for example widespread illness civil unrest labor disruptions weather equipment failures and the like . It will be appreciated that as an organization s tolerance for risk decreases the value of principles of the present disclosure for example use of operational reliability system to that organization increases.

Principles and features of the present disclosure may suitably be combined with principles of revenue management for example as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 348 417 filed on Jan. 11 2012 now published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0132128 entitled Overbooking Forecasting and Optimization Methods and Systems which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Principles of the present disclosure may suitably be combined with principles of forecasting demand modeling and or the like for example as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 791 672 entitled Demand Forecasting Systems and Methods Utilizing Unobscuring and Unconstraining filed on Mar. 8 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 791 691 entitled Demand Forecasting Systems and Methods Utilizing Fare Adjustment filed on Mar. 8 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 791 711 entitled Demand Forecasting Systems and Methods Utilizing Prime Class Remapping filed on Mar. 8 2013 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Principles and features of the present disclosure may also suitably be combined with principles of reserve forecasting for example as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 793 049 entitled Reserve Forecasting Systems and Methods filed on Mar. 11 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Principles and features of the present disclosure may also suitably be combined with principles of departure sequencing for example as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 833 761 entitled Departure Sequencing Systems and Methods filed on Mar. 15 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Principles and features of the present disclosure may also suitably be combined with principles of misconnect management for example as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 837 462 entitled Misconnect Management Systems and Methods filed on Mar. 15 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

While the present disclosure may be described in terms of an airport an aircraft a pilot and so forth one skilled in the art can appreciate that similar features and principles may be applied to other transportation systems and vehicles such as for example buses trains ships trucks automobiles and or the like.

While the exemplary embodiments described herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice principles of the present disclosure it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that logical and or functional changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Thus the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation.

While the description references specific technologies system architectures and data management techniques practitioners will appreciate that this description is of various embodiments and that other devices and or methods may be implemented without departing from the scope of principles of the present disclosure. Similarly while the description references a user interfacing with the system via a computer user interface practitioners will appreciate that other interfaces may include mobile devices kiosks and handheld devices such as mobile phones smart phones tablet computing devices etc.

While the steps outlined herein represent exemplary embodiments of principles of the present disclosure practitioners will appreciate that there are any number of computing algorithms and user interfaces that may be applied to create similar results. The steps are presented for the sake of explanation only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure in any way. Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described herein with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of any or all of the claims.

Systems methods and computer program products are provided. In the detailed description herein references to various embodiments one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to utilize such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described. After reading the description it will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s how to implement principles of the disclosure in alternative embodiments.

It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples indicating exemplary embodiments are given for purposes of illustration only and not as limitations. Many changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and principles of the present disclosure include all such modifications. Corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all elements are intended to include any structure material or acts for performing the functions in combination with other elements. Reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more. Moreover when a phrase similar to at least one of A B or C or at least one of A B and C is used in the claims or the specification the phrase is intended to mean any of the following 1 at least one of A 2 at least one of B 3 at least one of C 4 at least one of A and at least one of B 5 at least one of B and at least one of C 6 at least one of A and at least one of C or 7 at least one of A at least one of B and at least one of C.

