---

title: Process and apparatus for separation of components of a gas stream
abstract: A process and apparatus for separating a gas mixture comprising providing a slot in a gas separation channel (conceptualized as a laterally elongated Clusius-Dickel column), having a length through which a net cross-flow of the gas mixture may be established; applying a higher temperature to one side of the channel and a lower temperature on an opposite side of the channel thereby causing thermal-diffusion and buoyant-convection flow to occur in the slot; and establishing a net cross-flow of a gas mixture comprising at least one higher density gas component and at least one lower density gas component along the length of the slot, wherein the cross-flow causes, in combination with the convection flow, a spiraling flow in the slot; and wherein the spiral flow causes an increasing amount of separation of the higher density gas from the lower density gas along the length of the channel. The process may use one or more slots and/or channels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08753439&OS=08753439&RS=08753439
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08753439
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130823
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. Ser. No. 12 976 036 PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR SEPARATION OF COMPONENTS OF A GAS STEAM by Charles R. Bryan et al. filed on Dec. 22 2010 Our Reference No. SD11634.1. This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 377 291 GAS SEPARATION BY THERMAL DIFFUSION USING A CROSS FLOW SLOT GEOMETRY by Charles R. Bryan et al. filed Aug. 26 2010 Our Reference No. SD1164 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to a process and apparatus for separating two gases having different weights in a multiple gas mixture. More specifically the invention relates to the use of combined thermal diffusive separation with advecting convecting cross flow to achieve high throughput and high efficiency gas separation.

A number of natural and artificial gas mixtures contain two or more gases having different weights or densities. For example such separation processes are useful in large scale industrial processes such as petroleum refining air separation and recovery of carbon dioxide from power plant flue gases for geologic storage as well as for smaller scale processes such as isotope separation and chemical analysis. A sufficiently efficient and cost effective mechanism for such gas separation could also be used for extremely large scale projects such as the removal of greenhouse gases primarily carbon dioxide from air.

Thermal diffusion occurs in non isothermal gas mixtures. More specifically lighter components are preferentially concentrated in the hotter regions and heavier components are preferentially concentrated in the colder regions. That is a quiescent gas mixture with a steady temperature gradient also has a concentration gradient. This separation is known as the Soret effect. In other words if a two component gas is enclosed in a chamber that is heated on one side and cooled on the other a compositional gradient will develop in the chamber with the lighter gas species becoming slightly more concentrated on the hotter side of the chamber and the heavier species becoming slightly more concentrated on the cooler side. In a simple static system however incomplete separation occurs resulting in only a minor variation in the composition of the gas between the hotter and colder regions. Thermal separation of gases therefore is not a practical solution for efficient separation of gas components in a gas mixture.

It is known that combining thermal diffusive separation with convective flow can result in larger degrees of gas separation than that achievable solely with thermal separation. The best known mechanism for illustrating this effect is the Clusius Dickel column. Separation in a Clusius Dickel column occurs by thermal diffusion that is enhanced by convection. The Clusius Dickel column is a counter flow device meaning that the convecting air streams are moving in opposite directions in a closed loop fashion while also diffusively equilibrating. A Clusius Dickel column consists of a gas filled tube cooled on the outside with a water jacket and with a heated wire in the center. However this radial geometry is most easily conceptualized as a slot with a hot side and a cool side as shown in . illustrates a conventional Clusius Dickel column with an initial 50 50 mixture of a component A gas which is lighter than a component B gas. A convective flow occurs due to the temperature gradient and the difference in densities in components A and B. illustrates that following some period of convective flow the lighter component A concentrates at the top of the column and the heavier component B concentrates at the bottom of the column. As will be understood the component gases A and B do not sharply separate at the top and bottom sections of the Clusius Dickel column but rather a gradation with increasing concentration of component A develops from the center of the column to the top of the column. Likewise a gradation with increasing concentration of component B develops from the center of the column to the bottom of the column.

The Clusius Dickel column is a batch system that is the column is filled with a fixed volume of gas and allowed to reach a steady state condition over a long period of time. The bulk concentration of such a system does not change only a tiny amount of the highly enriched gas species of interest can be extracted from the end of the tube. Therefore it would be desirable to have a cost effective and fast process for separating a gas mixture containing a lighter gas and a heavier gas resulting in complete or near complete separation of the two gas components in a continuously flowing stream of the gas mixture. This would allow continuous sampling of the purified components.

The invention is a process and an apparatus for separating a gas mixture having a heavy gas component and a lighter gas component in a continuously flowing stream of the gas mixture.

A first aspect of the invention provides a process for separating a gas mixture comprising providing a slot in a channel in the form of an elongated Clusius Dickel column having a length through which a net cross flow may be established applying a higher temperature to one side of the slot and a lower temperature on an opposite side of the slot thereby causing thermal diffusion and buoyant convection flow to occur in the slot and establishing a net cross flow of a gas mixture comprising a higher density gas and a lower density gas along the length of the slot wherein the net cross flow causes in combination with the convection flow a spiraling flow in the slot and wherein the spiral flow causes an increasing amount of separation of the higher density gas and the lower density gas along the length of the slot.

In some embodiments of the inventive process the difference between the higher temperature and the lower temperature is equal to or greater than 5 C.

In some embodiments of the inventive process the length of the slot is equal to or greater than one meter.

The invention provides a process and apparatus for separating a gas mixture comprising one or more higher density gas component s and one or more lower density gas component s in a flowing stream of the gas mixture.

The inventive process for separating a gas mixture comprises providing one or more slots in one or more gas separation channels in the form of an elongated Clusius Dickel column having a length through which a net cross flow may be established applying a higher temperature to one side of the slot thereby causing thermal diffusion and buoyancy driven convection flow buoyant convective flow to occur in the slot and establishing a net cross flow of a gas mixture comprising a higher density gas and a lower density gas into the slot wherein the net cross flow causes in combination with the convection flow a spiraling flow along the length of the channel and wherein the spiral flow causes an increasing amount of separation of the higher density gas and the lower density gas along the length of the channel.

Buoyancy driven convection flow occurs when two liquids or gases having different densities are accelerated by a force. Typically that force is caused by gravity and it is generally understood that the words up vertical and down refer to a coordinate direction that is parallel to the direction of gravity. In the illustrated examples of specific embodiments in the direction of gravity is indicated.

In other embodiments of the inventive process and apparatus centrifugal forces can be used in place of or in addition to the force of gravity to drive buoyant convective flow in the gas mixture. Well known methods of providing a centrifugal force can be used including rotating or spinning with a motor a container or channel containing the gas mixture around a axis of rotation e.g. by a centrifuge . In these embodiments the apparatus can comprise means for applying one or more centrifugal forces to the gas separation channel in such a direction so as to cause the buoyant convection flow to occur within the slot. For example such a centrifugal force can be applied in a direction perpendicular to the length L of the channel see e.g. .

In each embodiment shown in the force of gravity indicated by the directional arrow can be replaced with or augmented by a centrifugal force to achieve the same effects and conditions. Depending on the speed of rotation the centrifugal force can be many times greater than the force caused by gravity.

In other embodiments the direction of a centrifugal force can be in a direction that is different than the direction of gravity.

In the inventive process a gas mixture having a higher density or heavier gas and lower density or lighter gas is passed along the length of the slot. The cooler and hotter sidewalls along the length of the slot cause a horizontal temperature gradient across the slot. This horizontal temperature gradient gives rise to horizontal thermal diffusion and vertical buoyant convective flows as described in connection with conventional Clusius Dickel columns. The flow of the gas mixture along the length of the slot in combination with the convective flow causes the gas mixture to move in a spiral path along the length of the channel and the rising and sinking gas streams are moving across each other at an angle in an advective convective cross flow fashion as is illustrated in . The spiral flow results in a compositional gradient that develops both vertically in the slot and horizontally along the direction of the gas mixture flow i.e. in the Z direction . The cross hatched and horizontally hatched arrows of illustrates such spiral flow wherein the cross hatched portions of the arrows indicate the downward flow of the higher density gas component and the horizontally hatched portions of the arrow indicate the upward flow of the lighter density gas component. In contrast to a conventional Clusius Dickel column with a fixed amount of gas in which a progressively larger compositional gradient develops over time in the inventive process a progressively larger compositional gradient between the lighter and heavier gas components of a gas mixture develops in the direction of flow down the length of the channel. Thus a continuous stream of a gas mixture can be separated rather than a fixed volume of gas in a closed column as shown in the schematic on the right side of .

Referring to the channel is divided into a number of 3 dimensional cells for analytical purposes 4 cells vertically spaced 2 cells horizontally spaced between the hot and cold side walls shown here paired vertically with the hot cell on top and 8 cells lengthwise spaced along the length of the channel for a total of 64 cells. In other words the shaded cells in represent the front or hot side while the un shaded cell immediately below each shaded cell represents the back or cold side. In reality the two cells are actually adjacent to each other in the slot i.e. one in front of the other. They were split in to better illustrate the effects of flow vs. diffusive equilibration at each step in the numerical analysis. As discussed previously in connection with the slot is not in reality so discretized.

As can be seen in the magnitude of the vertical composition gradient increases in the direction of flow along the length of the channel. The theoretical volume of gas shown by the star in a sample cell exhibits a compositional increase of about 7.5 i.e. 57.5 50 at the exit in comparison to the composition of the gas mixture of 50 50 as initially flowed into the slot following a single revolution along the spiral flow path. For example for a gas mixture volume initially composed 50 of a lower density gas A and 50 of a higher density gas B entering the channel at the left side the gas mixture leaving the channel at the cooler side of the slot would contain 57.5 of heavier gas B at the bottom of the channel and 42.5 of lighter gas A at the bottom of the channel. Likewise the gas leaving the channel at the hotter side of the slot would contain 57.5 of lighter gas A at the top of the channel and 42.5 of heavier gas B at the top of the channel following one spiral revolution along the length of the channel.

In contrast in rectangular slot is tilted tipped as a rigid body at a positive tilt angle 0 i.e. in a clockwise direction as measured between a vertical sidewall or and the Y axis wherein the Y axis coincides with the direction of gravity. In this tilted right slot orientation the convection flow loop is unstable and the flow does not stay attached to the nearest wall. This is because the hotter gas rises up away from hot sidewall and detaches while the cooler gas falls away from the cold sidewall and also detaches both of which lead to unstable flow.

In slot has been skewed into a reverse parallelogram shape that is defined by a positive skew angle 0 i.e. in a clockwise direction as measured between a vertical sidewall or and the Y axis wherein the Y axis coincides with the direction of gravity. With this tilted right parallelogram slot geometry the convection flow loop is unstable and the flow does not stay attached to the nearest wall. This is because the hotter gas rises up away from hot sidewall and detaches while the cooler gas falls away from the cold sidewall and also detaches both of which lead to unstable flow.

Any of the embodiments of the gas separation apparatus described above can independently comprise any combination of the following design features rectangular shaped slot symmetric shaped slot V shaped slot tilted slot parallelogram shaped slot straight side walls curved side wall s one or more permeable membranes or perforated dividers a tilted channel and or a helical spiral wrapped channel.

Gas channel see e.g. and is not limited to being a straight channel it can be curved in one or more directions. It is to be understood that the hot and cold sidewalls and in the Figures can generally be interchanged left to right and right to left without affecting the principles of operation of the process or apparatus of the present invention. Exceptions to this general rule include the example shown in where the cold sidewall is concave shaped and the hot sidewall is concave shaped.

In and the direction of the inlet gas mixture flowing into the open inlet of channel is in a direction parallel to the Z axis i.e. parallel to the length dimension of channel . However in other embodiments the direction of the inlet gas mixture can be at a pre determined injection angle or multiple injection angles for multiple inlet gas streams that is non parallel to the Z axis. For example these pre determined injection angle s can be chosen to preferentially induce a swirling flow as the gas mixture enters the inlet of channel .

As used herein percentages of the gas components in the gas mixture may be in molar weight or volume units. A skilled artisan would understand that the compositional gradient will depend upon a large number of factors including for example the rate of net cross flow of the gas mixture through the channel the temperature difference imparted on either side of the slot the length of the channel the distance between the walls of the slot and the compositional gradient of the gas mixture as flowed into the slot i.e. initial gas mixture composition . Thus the amount or separation of the gas components or the compositional gradient in comparison to the initial gas mixture may vary considerably depending upon such factors. The inventive process is not intended to be limited to any particular combination of such factors or to any particular minimum amount of compositional gradient per spiral revolution of a gas mixture volume.

All ranges and subranges of rate and amount of compositional gradient in comparison to the initial gas mixture composition is disclosed herein and included herein. For example the compositional gradient in comparison to the initial gas mixture composition per spiral revolution may be equal to or greater than 0.5 or in the alternative 1.0 or in the alternative 2.0 or in the alternative 3.0 or in the alternative 4.0 or in the alternative 5.0 or in the alternative 6.0 or in the alternative 7.0 or in the alternative 8.0 and so on up to a theoretical maximum of complete separation of the higher and lower density gas components.

Likewise the temperature gradient which may be applied across the slot used in the inventive process is not intended to be limited herein. The temperature difference across or within the slot may be greater than 0 C. or in the alternative greater than 2 C. or in the alternative greater than 5 C. or in the alternative greater than 10 C. or in the alternative greater than 20 C. or in the alternative greater than 50 C. or in the alternative greater than 300 C. by way of example.

Likewise the dimensions of the slot which may be used in the inventive process are not intended to be limited herein. Likewise the flow rate of the gas mixture into and through the length of the slot is not intended to be limited herein.

The geometry of the slot which may be used in the inventive process and apparatus is further not intended to be limited herein. While conceptualized herein as a slot conventional Clusius Dickel columns are typically vertical tubes cooled by water flowing around the tube exterior and heated within by a current carrying wire along the internal axis of the tube. Herein slots useful in the inventive process have been conceptualized as having two sides and a length but any geometry permitting both convective and advective flow may be used in various embodiments of the invention. The inventive process may further utilize one or more slots wherein the slots may have different geometries or the same geometry.

The geometry of the channel which may be used in the inventive process and apparatus is further not intended to be limited herein. In the specific examples shown in the Figures channel is illustrated as being straight. However in other embodiments the channel may be non straight e.g. curved along the length of the channel L . The degree of non straightness can vary greatly i.e. from a small amount of concave or convex curvature to a large degree of curvature e.g. channel may be formed as a helical spiral shape wrapped around a central axis as shown in .

The inventive process and apparatus may be used to treat any gas mixture comprising at least one higher density component and at least one lower density component. Because the process of the invention does not rely solely upon the gravitational forces the inventive process is particularly suited to separation of gas mixtures wherein the gas components have very slight density differences such as in gaseous mixtures of isotopes. The present invention may be used to separate a continuous gas mixture stream thereby permitting separation of gaseous components of large amounts of gas mixtures. For example the inventive process could be employed to separate excess carbon dioxide from air or flue gas streams for long term geologic storage of the carbon dioxide or alternatively for use in production of synthetic fuels.

The inventive process and apparatus may be used to substantially separate higher and lower density gases. As used herein substantially separate or substantially separated means that the gas mixture is separable or separated into a higher density gas stream having 5 or less of the lower density gas and a lower density gas stream having 5 or less of the higher density gas.

The inventive process and apparatus may also be used as a pre concentrator for the purpose of pre concentrating a particular species or component of a gas mixture before being acted on by a subsequent process e.g. a chemical process .

The inventive process and apparatus may also be used as a post concentrator for the purpose of post concentrating a particular species or component of a gas mixture after being acted on by a prior process e.g. a chemical process .

The present invention may be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit and the essential attributes thereof and accordingly reference should be made to the appended claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

