---

title: Identifying a signal route for delivery of video-on-demand to a subscriber terminal
abstract: A set top box includes an interface to a video on demand system, the interface adapted to receive communications from one or more modulators of a modulator group of the video on demand system. The set top further includes a decoder configured to extract a modulator group identifier periodically inserted into communications directed the set top box from the one or more modulators, the modulator group identifier unique to a physical transmission path from a headend of the video on demand system to the one or more modulators. The set top includes a video-on-demand request interface to the video on demand system, the video on demand request interface configured to output a request for video on demand data including the modulator group identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100703&OS=09100703&RS=09100703
owner: ARRIS Solutions, Inc.
number: 09100703
owner_city: Suwanee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 as a Continuation of application no. U.S. Ser. No. 09 759 935 filed on Jan. 12 2001 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to application No. U.S. 60 176 393 filed on Jan. 13 2000.

The attached Appendix A pages A1 A6 contains information about the ISO IEC JTC 1 SC 29 standard entitled Coding of Audio Picture Multimedia and Hypermedia Information .

The invention relates to the field of delivery of video on demand VOD . More particularly the invention relates to identification of an audio video signal path from a video server to a subscriber terminal.

Typically cable TV networks such as CNN and video programming from a VOD server transmit audio video programming signals from a cable hub or a headend facility to one or more cable subscribers via a hybrid fiber optic and coaxial cable HFC television network. In accordance with National Television Standards Committee NTSC the video signals are carried in 6 MHz channel slots that are kept separate by using frequency division multiplexing FDM . Each separate baseband video signal is assigned a unique radio frequency RF and up converted to its assigned RF frequency so that multiple signals may simultaneously share the HFC network in accordance with FDM.

Programming signals from the hub or headend are typically transmitted as either analog signals or as digital transport streams. For example each analog audio video programming signal may occupy a 6 MHz channel. An example of a digital protocol by which the digital transport streams may be communicated is Moving Pictures Experts Group MPEG or MPEG 2 which is described in more detail in the attached Appendix A. MPEG 2 is a standardized protocol by which moving pictures and accompanying sound tracks may be communicated digitally. This standard defines data packets each including a packet header and data field. For digital networks or video server programs multiple digital signals or programs may share a 6 MHz channel. The digital signals are typically transmitted using quadrature amplitude modulation QAM . QAM 64 and QAM 256 are typical QAM modulations schemes. Typically a combination of analog and QAM signals may be transmitted to cable subscribers via the HFC network using FDM. A QAM 256 modulator has a throughput of approximately 38 Mbps which is equivalent to ten simultaneous audio video programs each at 3.8 Mbps VOD.

Multiple HFC networks or paths from each hub carry cable programming to different areas such as different geographic neighborhoods. For non VOD cable networks an up converter is typically used to broadcast programming signals over all of the HFC networks in a corresponding 6 MHz slot or RF channel frequency. Additional up converters may broadcast additional signals to all of the HFC networks in other RF channels. Thus each neighborhood receives all of the same programs over the corresponding RF channel frequencies.

For VOD however such a scheme of broadcasting VOD programming to every area or neighborhood may be inefficient. For example assume that a hub feeds three HFC networks where each HFC network provides data to a different neighborhood. Assume also for example that to meet demand for VOD each neighborhood requires a maximum of twenty simultaneous programs. Assuming that one QAM channel is required for every ten programs twenty programs is equivalent to 2 QAM channels or 12 MHz. For all three neighborhoods the video server in the hub would need to support 60 simultaneous video programs so that 6 QAM channels would be required. If all 6 QAM channels are up converted and broadcast on all three HFC networks 36 MHz of bandwidth would be required on each HFC network. However because each neighborhood may be expected to require only 12 MHz of bandwidth this technique has a disadvantage of resulting in unnecessary bandwidth being provided to each neighborhood.

Therefore what is needed is a technique and system for delivery of VOD data which does not suffer from the aforementioned drawback of typical systems. It is to this end that the present invention is directed.

The invention is a method and apparatus for identifying an appropriate video signal path for delivery of video on demand VOD to a subscriber in a VOD system. In the VOD system each signal path from a VOD server services only the subscribers within a designated area or neighborhood. The signal path may be a portion of a hybrid fiber optic and cable HFC network. The other unused signal paths in the HFC network may then service subscribers in other areas. Because each path need not service every area the total bandwidth provided by the VOD server need not be provided to every area so that bandwidth is not wasted. Rather the bandwidth provided to each area can be commensurate with the needs of that area.

In accordance with the invention a unique identification may assigned to each area. The video server may periodically transmit the appropriate identification to the subscriber terminals of each area. The subscriber terminals may be pre configured to receive the unique identification. When a subscriber requests VOD programming the identification received by the subscriber s terminal from the VOD server is returned to the server along with the request. From the identification the VOD server may determine the area in which the requesting subscriber is located. The VOD server may then transmit the requested programming to the area in which the subscriber is located for reception by the subscriber. This prevents the VOD server from having to unnecessarily send the requested programming to all the other areas.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a VOD server identifies an appropriate video signal path for delivery of VOD to a subscriber in a VOD system. The subscribers may be arranged according to a plurality of groups each group having one or more corresponding signal paths from the server to the subscribers of the group. Each group receives a corresponding identification from the server. A subscriber request for programming from the server includes the identification associated with the group to which the subscriber belongs. In response to the request the server provides the requested programming to the subscriber via the signal path which corresponds to the group.

Thus in accordance with the invention a video on demand headend for distributing video on demand to one or more groups of subscribers is provided wherein each group of subscribers is serviced by one or more modulators connected to the headend wherein each modulator modulates the video on demand data at a different frequency. The headend comprises a video server an application server connected to the video server means for periodically generating a unique identification packet for each group of subscribers means for receiving a request for video on demand data from a subscriber the request comprising the unique identification packet for the group of subscribers to which the subscriber belongs the request for particular video on demand data and a unique subscriber identifier and means for selecting a modulator from the one or more modulators servicing the group of subscribers to which the subscriber belongs based on the unique identification packet.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a video on demand system for distributing video on demand is provided comprising a headend having a video server and an application server and one or more modulators connected to the headend one or more groups of subscribers each being serviced by one or more modulators the one or more modulators servicing a particular group of subscribers modulating the video on demand data at different frequencies so that the modulated signals to the particular group of subscribers share the same physical media. The headend further comprises means for assigning a unique plant identifier for each group of subscribers so that video on demand data destined for a particular group of subscribers is modulated using the one or more modulators that service that particular group of subscribers.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a video on demand delivery method for distributing video on demand to one or more groups of subscribers wherein each group of subscribers is serviced by one or more modulators connected to a headend each group of subscribers being assigned a unique plant identification is provided. The method comprises receiving the unique plant identification by a particular subscriber generating a video on demand data request by the particular subscriber to the headend the video on demand data request including the unique plant identification the data request and a unique subscriber identification and selecting at the headend a modulator from the one or more modulators assigned to the group of subscribers that the particular subscriber is part of based on the unique plant identification.

The invention is particularly applicable to a QAM based VOD system and it is in this context that the invention will be described. It will be appreciated however that the system and method in accordance with the invention has greater utility.

Audio video data such as motion picture programming and the like may be generated by the video server from prestored video programs or movies stored in the video server s attached storage devices or may be stored remotely from the video server and communicated to the video server. The audio video data may be formatted for transmission by the data formatter . For example the audio video data may be formatted in accordance with MPEG 2 multiple program transport stream MPTS digital video signal standard for digital video broadcast asynchronous serial interface DVB ASI . In a preferred embodiment the formatted DVB ASI video data may include for example up to sixty two simultaneously broadcast programs programs . Selected programs may then be provided to each of a plurality of well known quadrature amplitude modulation QAM modulators QAM 1 QAM 6 in the example shown . For example programs may be reserved programs may be provided to modulator programs may be provided to modulator programs may be provided to modulator programs may be provided to modulator programs may be provided to modulator and programs may be provided to modulator . Each modulator may include an up converter U C as is well known. In a preferred embodiment the modulators may up convert the video signals to a 300 MHz frequency for transmission while the modulators may up convert the video signals to a 306 MHz frequency for transmission. It will be apparent that other transmission frequencies may be selected. In addition the modulators may be incorporated into the hub for example as part of the video server .

Each group of programs may then be routed to one or more groups of subscribers See via one or more corresponding network links such as in a hybrid fiber optic and coaxial cable HFC network. Because network links and may be frequency division multiplexed FDM the links and may share the same physical transmission media. Similarly other links and may share the same physical media. Each designated grouping of RF up converted QAM modulators from which a given group of subscribers may receive a video signal may be referred to as a plant e.g. Plant A Plant B and Plant C is the example shown in . Thus modulators and may correspond to Plant A which services subscriber group modulators and may correspond to Plant B which services subscriber group and modulators and may correspond to Plant C which service subscriber group . Each plant may represent one of the physical HFC networks extending from a headend or hub through an optical node to a neighborhood.

Each group of subscribers may be located in a different area or neighborhood. Each subscriber terminal e.g. terminal in a plant or subscriber group may include well known audio video reception and display apparatus not shown such as for example a set top box and a television set and may be located in subscriber homes or places of business.

In addition to transmitting audio video data requested by subscribers each plant may also transmit an identification designator to the subscribers serviced by the plant. For this purpose each plant may be assigned a unique plant identification code name or number. In the example shown Plant A may be assigned a first identification Plant ID which is communicated to subscribers of group Plant B may be assigned a second identification Plant ID which is communicated to subscribers of group and Plant C may be assigned a third identification Plant ID which is communicated to subscribers of group . In the preferred embodiment the identifications are packetized by the data formatter or MPEG 2 multiplexer into packets referred to herein as identification packets in accordance with the MPEG 2 standard described in more detail in the attached Appendix A in which header information identifies the packet s program identification PID which correlates its payload type as user data in the program map table PMT packet. The payload in this case includes the appropriate identification code or name. An appropriate identification packet is preferably transmitted recurrently e.g. every 1 second to each of the subscriber groups via one of the modulators associated with each plant. For example the identification packets may be transmitted by the 300 MHz modulators and . In which case the subscribers of each group may monitor the received 300 MHz signal for the identification packets.

The subscriber terminals of the groups may be pre configured to monitor the received signals for the plant identification packets by an appropriate application program which is pre loaded into the subscriber terminals. For example the application program may be loaded at the time of manufacture or installation of each subscriber terminal. Alternately the application program may be provided to the subscriber terminals by the application server or by another application server over a LAN and a well known quadrature phase shift key QPSK modem via forward path or via a broadcast file system BFS such as Scientific Atlanta Inc. s network controller BFS.

Thus the plant identification may be transmitted as an MPEG stream by at least one of the modulators for each plant. For example at least one of the modulators on each plant may carry the unique identification as an MPEG program in its multiplex. The modulators for each plant which contain the identification program may all have the same RF up converted frequency assignment e.g. 300 MHz . These modulators are referred to herein as the reference modulators e.g. modulators . The unique plant identification for each plant may be defined while configuring the VOD system. The identifications may be inserted into an MPEG transport packet by a wrapper program and stored by the video server or accessible to it. The plant identification packets may be repeatedly transmitted along with other MPEG programming typically video and associated audio or alone via the RF channel associated with the reference modulator. Now a method for identifying a VOD signal route in accordance with the invention will be described in more detail.

The set top box of the subscriber terminal e.g. the terminal may then communicate the plant identification along with the movie request to the application server of the hub in response to the subscriber requesting a movie or other programming in step . An identification unique to the subscriber terminal may also be sent to the hub . For example the subscriber terminal may communicate with the hub via a forward path and a return path the QPSK modem and the local area network LAN . The forward and return paths may be part of an HFC network. It will be apparent however that communication between the subscriber terminals and the hub may be provided by another means such as a LAN a direct telephone connection or the world wide web Internet .

Upon reception of the plant identification and subscriber terminal identification the application server may determine which modulators video server output connector and program numbers serve that particular subscriber terminal. The hub therefore can determine which of modulators are capable of reaching the requesting subscriber. The requested video programming may then be transmitted by a modulator within the appropriate plant. For example terminal is serviced by Plant A. Therefore modulators and are both capable of reaching the subscriber terminal . However as shown in the modulators are not capable of reaching the subscriber terminal .

An available program may then be selected from the corresponding program numbers e.g. for plant A one of programs may be selected for transmitting the requested programming to the subscriber. The selected QAM modulator RF frequency and program number may then be communicated to the requesting subscriber terminal such as the terminal via forward path . In response the set top box of the subscriber terminal e.g. terminal may then configure itself to receive audio video data from that QAM modulator. The video server may then provide the requested programming to the subscriber via the selected channel in step . Once the program is complete the transmission may be terminated. During transmission of programming to a subscriber terminal other terminals in the groups may interact with the hub in this manner to receive requested programming. Thus by assigning a subset of the modulators to each of the subscriber groups available bandwidth of the system is utilized efficiently. The excess bandwidth may be used for other programming.

While the foregoing has been with reference to particular embodiments of the invention it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes in these embodiments may be made without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined by the appended claims. For example the number of modulators and programs for each plant may be altered. In addition the number of plants may be altered. Further the specific protocols and modulation parameters disclosed herein may be altered. The system may also include multiple DVB ASI channels to multiple sets of QAM modulators thereby altering the number of modulators shown in .

