---

title: Image forming apparatus
abstract: A novel image forming apparatus includes a photoreceptor to bear an electrostatic latent image on a surface thereof, a developing device to develop the electrostatic latent image into a toner image, an intermediate transfer member onto which the electrostatic latent image is transferred, a primary transfer member to apply a primary transfer bias to the intermediate transfer member to transfer the toner image thereto, a secondary transfer member supplied with a secondary transfer bias to transfer the toner image from the intermediate transfer member onto a recording medium, and a transfer bias power source to selectively apply to the secondary transfer member one of a secondary transfer bias consisting of a direct current (DC) voltage in a DC transfer mode and a secondary transfer bias consisting of a superimposed bias in which an alternating voltage is superimposed on a DC voltage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454107&OS=09454107&RS=09454107
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09454107
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130614
---
This patent application is based on and claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 from Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2012 164587 filed on Jul. 25 2012 and 2013 027540 filed on Feb. 15 2013 both in the Japan Patent Office which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Exemplary aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to an image forming apparatus and more particularly to a copy machine a printer a facsimile machine or a multi functional system including at least two of these functions thereof.

Related art image forming apparatuses such as copiers facsimile machines printers or multi functional systems having at least one of copying printing scanning and facsimile capabilities typically form an image on a recording medium according to image data. Thus for example a charger uniformly charges a surface of a photoreceptor which may for example be a photoconductive drum an optical writer projects a light beam onto the charged surface of the photoreceptor according to image data a developing device supplies toner to the electrostatic latent image formed on the photoreceptor to render the electrostatic latent image visible as a toner image the toner image is directly transferred from the photoreceptor onto a recording medium or is indirectly transferred from the photoreceptor onto a recording medium via an intermediate transfer member using a transfer device a cleaning device then cleans the surface of the photoreceptor after the toner image is transferred from the photoreceptor onto the recording medium finally a fixing device applies heat and pressure to the recording medium bearing the unfixed toner image to fix the unfixed toner image on the recording medium thus forming the image on the recording medium.

Conventionally in such electrophotographic image forming apparatuses constant current control of a direct current DC transfer bias that is applied to a transfer device using a DC power source is widely employed.

In recent years however a variety of recording media such as paper having a leather like texture and Japanese paper known as Washi have come on the market. Such recording medium have a coarse surface due to fabrication such as embossing. However toner does not transfer well to such recording medium in particular recessed portions of the surface causing gaps in an output image.

It is known that superimposing an alternating current AC voltage onto a DC voltage enhances toner transfer rate and prevents image defects. In such a configuration changing transfer modes between a DC transfer mode and a DC AC superimposed transfer mode hereinafter referred to as superimposed transfer mode in accordance with the type of recording medium leads to enhanced transferability of toner regardless of the type of recording medium.

In such a configuration when transferring toner by superimposing the AC voltage onto the DC voltage an AC component affects transfer of toner to the recessed portion of the recording medium and a DC component affects transfer of toner to the projecting portion. Therefore there is a need to increase the strength of the DC bias to the transfer side according to the resistivity of the recording medium and the depth of the recessed portions in the surface of the recording medium Refer to Voff in . At the same time it is necessary that the polarity of the AC component opposite the polarity of the AC voltage at the toner transfer side that affects transfer of toner to the recessed portions remains constant Refer to Vr in . Thus in turn there is a need to increase the peak to peak voltage Refer to Vpp in of the AC voltage. Accordingly the polarity of the AC voltage at the toner transfer side Refer to Vt in increases. When a certain voltage is exceeded an electric discharge occurs causing image degradation such as little or no settling of toner in the recessed portions and discharge images so called white dot images on the projecting portions.

Furthermore it has been found that this electric discharge occurs because toner charge of the toner image before secondary transfer of the toner image is the same in both the DC transfer mode and the superimposed transfer mode and for that reason the toner charge in the superimposed transfer mode is excessive.

In view of the foregoing in an aspect of this disclosure there is provided a novel image forming apparatus including a photoreceptor to bear an electrostatic latent image on a surface thereof a developing device to develop the electrostatic latent image into a toner image an intermediate transfer member onto which the electrostatic latent image is transferred a primary transfer member to apply a primary transfer bias to the intermediate transfer member to transfer the toner image thereto a secondary transfer member supplied with a secondary transfer bias to transfer the toner image from the intermediate transfer member onto a recording medium and a transfer bias power source to selectively apply to the secondary transfer member one of a secondary transfer bias consisting of a direct current DC voltage in a DC transfer mode and a secondary transfer bias consisting of a superimposed bias in which an alternating current AC voltage is superimposed on a DC voltage and having a waveform in which a polarity alternates between a transfer polarity for transferring the toner image onto the recording medium and a polarity opposite the transfer polarity in a superimposed transfer mode. An absolute value of a DC component of the secondary transfer bias in the superimposed transfer mode is smaller than a DC component of the secondary transfer bias in the DC transfer mode under same environmental conditions using same recording media and with same toner images as the superimposed transfer mode.

The aforementioned and other aspects features and advantages would be more fully apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments the accompanying drawings and the associated claims.

In describing illustrative embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that have the same function operate in a similar manner and achieve a similar result.

In a later described comparative example illustrative embodiment and alternative example for the sake of simplicity the same reference numerals will be given to constituent elements such as parts and materials having the same functions and redundant descriptions thereof omitted.

Typically but not necessarily paper is the medium from which is made a sheet on which an image is to be formed. It should be noted however that other printable media are available in sheet form and accordingly their use here is included. Thus solely for simplicity although this Detailed Description section refers to paper sheets thereof paper feeder etc. it should be understood that the sheets etc. are not limited only to paper but include other printable media as well.

The following is an image forming apparatus employing an intermediate transfer method as an example of an embodiment of the present disclosure.

The photoreceptor of the present illustrative embodiment has a drum form with an external diameter of 60 mm and has an organic photoreceptor layer formed around a core that is rotated clockwise as shown in by a driving device. The charging roller charges the surface of the photoreceptor uniformly by contacting or by bringing into close proximity the charging roller that has been supplied with a charging bias to the photoreceptor and generating a discharge between the charging roller and the photoreceptor . In the present illustrative embodiment the uniform charging polarity is negative the same as the normal charge polarity of toner. The employed charging bias is that of an AC voltage superimposed on a DC voltage. Alternatively a charging device may be used in place of the charging roller serving as a charging device.

In the developing device a two component developer including a toner and a carrier is accommodated. Included within is a developer sleeve as a developer carrier and two screw members and serving as a mixing member for mixing and conveying the developer. Alternatively a single component developer may be used for a developing device.

The cleaning device includes a cleaning blade and a cleaning brush . The cleaning blade is disposed counter to the direction of the rotation of the photoreceptor and comes into contact with the photoreceptor . The cleaning brush comes into contact with the photoreceptor and rotates counter to the photoreceptor . Both clean residual toner from the surface of the photoreceptor .

Returning to disposed above the image forming unit is an optical writing unit serving as a latent image writing device. The optical writing unit based upon image information sent from an external device such as a personal computer scans optically the surface of the photoreceptor with a laser light L emitted from a laser diode. Thereby forming an electrostatic latent image on the surface of the photoreceptor . More specifically areas on the uniformly charged surface of the photoreceptor that have been irradiated with the laser light have an attenuated electric potential. As a result the electric potential of laser irradiated areas is lower than that of other non irradiated areas uniformly charged surface thereby forming an electrostatic latent image. The optical writing unit includes a light source that emits the laser light L. The emitted laser light L is polarized by a polygon mirror that is rotated by a polygon motor not shown in . The polarized laser light L irradiates the photoreceptor via multiple optical lenses and mirrors in the main scanning direction. Alternatively employing a method of optical writing with an LED light emitted from multiple LEDs in an LED array may be used.

Disposed below the image forming unit is a transfer unit serving as a transfer device that moves in a counter clockwise direction as shown in while holding taut the intermediate transfer belt formed into an endless loop. The transfer unit includes a drive roller a secondary transfer back surface roller a cleaning backup roller the primary transfer roller a nip forming roller a belt cleaning device and an electric potential sensor .

The intermediate transfer belt is held taut by the drive roller the secondary transfer back surface roller the cleaning backup roller and the primary transfer roller disposed inside the loop belt. The intermediate transfer belt is moved in an endless loop action by the rotation of the drive roller driven by a driving device in a counter clockwise direction as shown in . The intermediate transfer belt has a thickness in a range from approximately 20 m to approximately 200 m preferably approximately 60 m.

The volume resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt is in a range from approximately 6.0 log cm to approximately 13.0 log cm preferably in a range from approximately 7.5 log cm to approximately 12.5 log cm. The volume resistivity of approximately 9.0 log cm is preferable volume resistivity measurements are conducted with Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation HIRESTA UP MCP HT45 with a HRS probe at voltage 100V for 10 sec. . For material thereof a single layer or multiple layers of including but not limited to polyimide PI polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF ethylene tetrafluoroethylene ETFE and polycarbonate PC may be used. Depending upon the need the surface of the belt may be coated with a separation layer.

Material employed for coating thereof is fluorine resins including but not limited to ethylene tetrafluoroethylene ETFE polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF perfluoroalkoxy fluorocarbon polymer PFA fluorinated ethylene propylene FEP and polyvinyl fluoride PVF .

Methods for molding the belt include cast molding and centrifuge casting. Depending upon the need grinding the surface of the belt may be conducted. The belt belt formed into a loop may have a three layer structure including a base layer an elastic layer and a coating layer. In a case in which the belt has a three layer structure the base layer is for example a fluorine resin with a small degree of stretching or a combination of a rubber material with a large degree of stretching and a material with a small degree of stretching such as canvas. The elastic layer is for example a fluorine rubber or an acrylonitrile butadiene rubber that is formed on the base layer. The coating layer is for example a fluorine resin coated on the surface of the elastic layer. Resistivity is adjusted with dispersing conductive material such as carbon black in the belt.

The intermediate transfer belt that moves in an endless loop action is interposed between the primary transfer roller and the photoreceptor . A primary transfer nip is formed between the contact of the surface of the intermediate transfer belt and the photoreceptor . A primary transfer bias is applied to the primary transfer roller by a primary transfer bias power source . Accordingly a transfer electric field is formed between a toner image on the photoreceptor and the primary transfer roller and the toner image is primarily transferred from the photoreceptor onto the intermediate transfer belt by the transfer electric field and nip pressure.

The primary transfer roller is an elastic roller formed of a metal core on which a conductive sponge layer is fixed. In the present illustrative embodiment the external diameter is approximately 16 mm. The diameter of the metal core is approximately 10 mm. The volume resistivity is the average of measured resistivity of one rotation at the following conditions.

The calculated resistivity R of the sponge layer by Ohm s law R V I is from approximately 6.0 log to approximately 9.0 log preferably approximately 7.5 log .

A constant current controlled primary transfer bias is applied to the primary transfer roller as described above. Alternatively a transfer charger or a transfer brush may be employed for the primary transfer instead of the transfer roller described above.

The nip forming roller of the transfer unit is disposed outside the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt . Interposed between the nip forming roller and the secondary transfer back surface roller is the intermediate transfer belt . Accordingly a secondary transfer nip is formed at the contact between the peripheral surface or the image bearing surface of the intermediate transfer belt and the nip forming roller . Whereas the nip forming roller is grounded by contrast a secondary transfer bias is applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller by a secondary transfer bias power source . Accordingly a secondary transfer electric field is formed between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the nip forming roller so that the toner moves electrostatically from the secondary transfer back surface roller side to the nip forming roller side.

A sheet cassette storing a stack of recording media P is disposed below the transfer unit . A sheet feed roller contacts the topmost recording medium P stored in the sheet cassette . Accordingly by rotating the sheet feed roller at a predetermined timing the top most recording medium P is fed to a sheet passage. A pair of timing rollers that adjusts feed timing is disposed before the secondary transfer nip of the sheet passage. The pair of timing rollers stops rotating after the recording medium P is fed from the sheet cassette and is interposed between the pair of timing rollers . The pair of timing rollers starts to rotate again to feed the recording medium P to the secondary transfer nip in an appropriate timing such that the recording medium P is aligned with a toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt in the secondary transfer nip. In the secondary transfer nip the recording medium P presses against the toner image on the intermediate transfer belt and the image is transferred secondarily onto the recording medium P due to the secondary transfer electric field and the nip pressure applied thereto. After the toner image is formed on the recording medium P and passes through the secondary transfer nip the recording medium P separates from the nip forming roller and the intermediate transfer belt due to the curvature of the nip forming roller .

The secondary transfer back surface roller is formed of a metal core of stainless steel or aluminum with a resistivity layer. The resistivity layer is of a polycarbonate a fluorine rubber or a silicon rubber with conductive materials such as carbon or a metal complex dispersed therein or NBR or EPDM rubber or a copolymerized NBR ECO rubber or a semi conductive polyurethane rubber. The volume resistivity is approximately 6.0 log preferably in a range from approximately 7.0 log to approximately 9.0 log . A foam type with a hardness in a range from 20 degrees to 50 degrees and a rubber type with a hardness in a range from 30 degrees to 60 degrees may be used. A sponge type is preferred so that the secondary transfer back surface roller can contact more reliably the nip forming roller via the intermediate transfer belt even with a small contact pressure between the intermediate transfer belt and the secondary transfer back surface roller . Since improper transfer of toner occurs in character images and thin lines more easily with a high contact pressure the sponge type is preferred.

The nip forming roller is formed of a stainless steel or aluminum metal core with layers including a resistivity layer of conductive rubber and a surface layer. In the present illustrative embodiment the external diameter of the roller is approximately 20 mm and the metal core is formed of stainless steel and has a diameter of approximately 16 mm. The resistivity layer is a copolymerized NBR ECO with a hardness in a range from approximately 40 degrees to 60 degrees JIS A . The surface layer is an urethane elastomer comprising fluorine and has a preferred thickness in a range from 8 m to 24 m. The surface layer of a roller is often fabricated with a painting process. Thus a roller with a surface layer with a thickness of under 8 m results in having a large resistivity unevenness due to unevenness of paint application that in turn may lead to an unfavorable leak at a low resistivity section. Also there is a higher possibility of a crease forming on the surface of the roller leading to cracks in the surface layer. If the thickness of the surface layer exceeds 24 m the resistivity becomes high. In a case of high volume resistivity when a constant current is applied to the metal core of the secondary transfer back surface roller there is a possibility of an increase in voltage resulting in electric current below target current strength due to exceeding a voltage variable range of a constant current power source. In a case in which the voltage variable range is sufficiently high there is a possibility of the metal core of the secondary transfer back surface roller or voltage pathway to the metal core of the secondary transfer back surface roller from the constant current power source becoming high voltage resulting in a higher possibility of leaks. Also if the thickness of surface layer of the nip forming roller exceeds 24 m the hardness increases and there arises an issue of contact between the recording medium such as paper and the intermediate transfer belt becoming unfavorable. The surface resistivity of the nip forming roller is equal to or above 106.5 and the volume resistivity of the surface layer of the nip forming roller is equal to or above 10.0 log cm preferably equal to or above 12.0 log cm.

In the present illustrative embodiment the nip forming roller is a type with a surface layer although a type with only a resistivity layer on the metal core may be used. Alternatively a foam type roller with no surface layer may be used for the nip forming roller . In this case the volume resistivity of the nip forming roller is in a range from approximately 6.0 log to approximately 8.0 log preferably in a range from approximately 7.0 log to approximately 8.0 log .

Accordingly a foam type a rubber type or a metal roller such as SUS may be used for the secondary transfer back surface roller . It is preferable that the volume resistivity be equal to or below 6.0 log that is lower than the nip forming roller . The volume resistivity measurements of the nip forming roller and the secondary transfer back surface roller are taken with the same method as that for the primary transfer roller .

The electric potential sensor is disposed on the outside of the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt opposite the drive roller that is grounded. More specifically the electric potential sensor faces a portion of the intermediate transfer belt surrounding the drive roller across a gap of approximately 4 mm. The surface potential of the toner image primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt is measured when the toner image comes to the position opposite the electric potential sensor . In the present illustrative embodiment an EFS 22D manufactured by TDK Corp. is employed as the electric potential sensor .

Also the electric potential sensor may be used as a toner image detection sensor. A toner image detection sensor is an optical sensor of a type including a light emitting element and two light receiving elements. By converting a received output into the amount of adhesion the amount of adhesion of the toner image primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt is detected.

A fixing device fixes the transferred image onto the recording medium P when the recording medium P goes through the secondary transfer nip. The fixing device includes a fixing roller with a halogen lamp as a heat source and a pressing roller that presses against the fixing roller at a predetermined pressure while rotating to form a fixing nip between the fixing roller and the pressing roller . The recording medium P bearing an unfixed toner image on its surface is conveyed to the fixing device and is interposed in the fixing nip in an orientation in which the face of the toner image contacts the fixing roller . Under heat and pressure the toner of the toner image is softened and fixed onto the recording medium P. The recording medium P discharged from the fixing device is discharged from the image forming apparatus via the sheet passage after fixation.

Also as shown in a time A that is the move time of the toner of the AC component moving from the belt side to the recording medium side in the present illustrative embodiment the negative side and a time B that is the return time of the toner moving from the recording medium side to the belt side in the present illustrative embodiment the positive side may be set to differing lengths.

In the present illustrative embodiment by making the time A longer than the time B the time averaged value Vave of the AC component of the superimposed bias is set to the polarity of the transfer direction of the transfer of the toner image from the belt side to the recording medium side. Due to this the AC component of the superimposed bias is compared to the DC component Voff of the superimposed bias set towards the transfer direction.

When using a recording medium such as Washi or embossed paper with a coarse surface by applying the superimposed bias as described above and moving the toner from the belt side to the recording medium side and onto the recording medium transferability to recessed portions increases transfer rate is enhanced and image defects such as toner voids are prevented. By contrast when using a recording medium such as plain paper with a relatively smooth surface by applying a secondary transfer bias of only the DC component a satisfactory transferability is attained.

The present illustrative embodiment has a structure that includes a DC transfer mode that transfers images by applying a DC bias and a superimposed transfer mode that transfers images by applying a superimposed bias an AC superimposed on a DC as the secondary transfer bias. Accordingly the transfer modes can be switched. By switching between the transfer modes the DC transfer mode or the superimposed transfer mode according to the recording medium that will be fed good image transfer may be attained for either a recording medium with a coarse surface or a recording medium with a relatively smooth surface. The switching of the transfer mode may be set so that the mode automatically switches according to the type of recording medium or alternatively set so that the user may specify the transfer mode. The setting of the transfer mode may be set from the control panel on the image forming apparatus .

Also the present illustrative embodiment includes two power sources a DC power source and a power source of an AC superimposed on a DC that is switched with a relay. Alternatively as shown in disposing a DC power source and an AC power source and having a method in which the controller switches the DC transfer mode and the superimposed transfer mode according to the presence or absence of output of the AC power source may be employed.

Furthermore though the secondary transfer bias is applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller a method of applying both the DC and AC to the nip forming roller or applying DC and AC independently to different rollers may be employed.

Next a description is provided of an embodiment of an image forming apparatus of the present disclosure in which the generation of a discharge image is prevented and good transferability is attained.

It is to be noted that in low temperature and low humidity environments the absolute value of the toner charge is high and in high temperature and high humidity environments the absolute value of the toner charge is low. Accordingly it is known to adjust the primary transfer bias the secondary transfer bias and various image creating condition settings according to environment conditions. Also it is known to adjust the primary transfer bias the secondary transfer bias and various image creating condition settings according to the thickness of the recording medium the size of the recording medium and the image area ratio setting.

One aspect of the present illustrative embodiment is the difference between the superimposed transfer mode and the DC transfer mode under same environmental conditions using same recording media and with same toner images. Therefore the description of the present illustrative embodiment assumes same environmental conditions using same recording media and with same toner images.

Also it is to be noted that in the present illustrative embodiment a negative charged toner is used. The toner is transferred by applying a positive polarity bias for the primary transfer and a negative polarity bias for the secondary transfer.

In the following the setting of the secondary transfer bias in EMBODIMENT 1 is described with reference to and Table 1.

In the DC transfer mode the constant current control of a secondary transfer current is 40 A. By contrast in the superimposed transfer mode the secondary transfer current is 32 A and the secondary transfer voltage is a sinusoidal wave of 8 kVpp. The secondary transfer bias of each mode include a DC component but the DC component of the secondary transfer bias in the superimposed transfer mode has a smaller absolute value than the secondary transfer bias in the DC transfer mode. Thus as shown in the waveform of the secondary transfer bias in the absolute value of the DC component Voff may be made smaller. As a result the AC voltage Vpp shown in may be made smaller compared to a conventional example shown in Table 7 described hereinafter. Accordingly image degradation such as discharge images does not occur in the superimposed transfer mode and good transferability in either the DC transfer mode or the superimposed transfer mode is attained.

It is to be noted that the secondary transfer bias is constant current controlled in the present illustrative embodiment. Alternatively the secondary transfer bias may be constant voltage controlled. For example as shown in Table 2 by making the absolute value of the DC voltage in the superimposed transfer mode smaller than the DC voltage in the DC transfer mode the same result described above may be attained.

EMBODIMENT 2 is an image forming apparatus with the structure described in EMBODIMENT 1 except for the difference in toner charge of the toner image before secondary transfer of the toner image hereinafter referred to as toner charge before secondary transfer . Table 3 and are used for the description.

Table 3 illustrates the set value and the toner charge before secondary transfer in the present illustrative embodiment. In the DC transfer mode the primary transfer current is a constant current controlled 33 A the secondary transfer current is a constant current controlled 40 A and the toner charge before secondary transfer is 32 C g. By contrast in the superimposed transfer mode the primary transfer current is a constant current controlled 30.5 A the secondary transfer current is a constant current controlled 32 A and by making the secondary transfer voltage a sinusoidal wave of 8 kVpp the toner charge before secondary transfer is 30 C g. As a result the toner charge before secondary transfer has a smaller absolute value in the superimposed transfer mode than in the DC transfer mode.

Therefore by lowering the toner charge before secondary transfer in the superimposed transfer mode compared to the toner charge before secondary transfer in the DC transfer mode the electrostatic adhesion between toner and between the toner and the intermediate transfer member is smaller. The waveform of the secondary transfer bias is the same as EMBODIMENT 1 and as shown in the absolute value of the secondary transfer bias may be made smaller. As a result the AC voltage Vpp shown in may be made smaller compared to a conventional example shown in Table 7 described hereinafter. Accordingly image degradation such as discharge images does not occur in the superimposed transfer mode and good transferability in either the DC transfer mode or the superimposed transfer mode is attained. The reduction ratio of the absolute value of the toner charge before secondary transfer in the superimposed transfer mode to the DC transfer mode is preferably equal to or above 5 .

EMBODIMENT 3 is an image forming apparatus with the structure described in EMBODIMENT 1 but with a charging device and a counter electrode before the secondary transfer member employing a method that changes the toner charge before secondary transfer. The structure is shown in . It is to be noted that other than a charging device before the secondary transfer the structure of the image forming apparatus the employed materials and the reference numerals are the same as EMBODIMENT 1.

In the present EMBODIMENT 3 the charging device before the secondary transfer employs a non contact corotron method and controls the wire voltage so that it is applied in the superimposed transfer mode. The reference numeral is the counter electrode to the charging device .

Table 4 illustrates the settings and the toner charge before secondary transfer in EMBODIMENT 3. A primary transfer current in both the DC transfer mode and the superimposed transfer mode is 33 A. A 500V charge is applied to the charging device in the superimposed transfer mode and changes the toner charge before secondary transfer. As a result the toner charge before the secondary transfer in the DC transfer mode is 32 C g. By contrast the toner charge before the secondary transfer in the superimposed transfer mode is 30 C g and has a smaller absolute value. Accordingly the electrostatic adhesion between toner and between the toner and the intermediate transfer member is smaller. As a result as seen in EMBODIMENT 1 the AC voltage Vpp shown in in the superimposed transfer mode may be made smaller compared to a conventional example shown in Table 7 described hereinafter. Accordingly image degradation such as discharge images does not occur in the superimposed transfer mode and good transferability in either the DC transfer mode or the superimposed transfer mode is attained.

It is to be noted that the charging device of EMBODIMENT 3 and the voltage applied to the charging device are one example of an image forming apparatus according to the present disclosure and are not limited thereto.

EMBODIMENT 4 is an image forming apparatus with the structure described in EMBODIMENT 1 employing a method in which a time averaged value Vave of the AC voltage in the superimposed transfer mode is set to a polarity in a direction of transfer of toner from the intermediate transfer member onto the recording medium and is closer to the transfer direction side than is a midpoint value Voff intermediate between a maximum value of the AC voltage and a minimum value of the AC voltage.

In the image forming apparatus of the present disclosure a waveform with rounded corners is used as an AC waveform. Alternatively the waveform may be a triangular wave or a rectangular wave like that shown in .

Table 5 illustrates the settings and the toner charge before secondary transfer in EMBODIMENT 4. The DC transfer mode is the same as EMBODIMENT 1. The primary transfer current in the superimposed transfer mode as seen in EMBODIMENT 1 is 30.5 A and the toner charge before secondary transfer is 30 C g. From the difference in AC waveform the secondary transfer current is 30 A and the AC voltage is 6 kVpp and may be set smaller compared to EMBODIMENT 1 or a conventional example shown in Table 7 described hereinafter. Accordingly image degradation such as discharge images does not occur in the superimposed transfer mode and good transferability in either the DC transfer mode or the superimposed transfer mode is attained.

EMBODIMENT 5 has a different structure compared to the structure of the image forming apparatus of EMBODIMENT 1. As shown in it is a color image forming apparatus including image forming units Y M C and K disposed in parallel for forming toner images of yellow Y magenta M cyan C and black K color respectively. Also included is a tandem image creation member. Other than the image forming units Y M C and K the structure of the image forming apparatus is the same as EMBODIMENT 1. The employed reference numerals are the same with respect to identical members.

In EMBODIMENT 5 a toner image is formed by each of the image forming units Y M C and K. A primary transfer bias is applied to each of primary transfer rollers Y M C and K of each of the image forming units Y M C and K by a transfer bias power source not shown in . Accordingly a transfer electric field is formed between each of the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K and each color toner image on each of photoreceptor drums Y M C and K. Each color toner image is primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt from each of the photoreceptor drums Y M C and K by the transfer electric field and a nip pressure. A composite toner image of four colors superimposed on each other is formed on the intermediate transfer belt by sequentially superimposing primary transfers of Y M C and K toner images.

Table 6 illustrates the settings and the toner charge before secondary transfer in the full color mode of EMBODIMENT 5. The primary transfer current in the superimposed transfer mode of each color is set smaller than in the DC transfer mode. Accordingly the absolute value of the toner charge before secondary transfer is smaller in the superimposed transfer mode of each color. Thus the electrostatic adhesion between toner and between the toner and the intermediate transfer member is smaller. As a result the absolute value of the secondary transfer current in the superimposed transfer mode may also be made smaller than in the DC transfer mode Voff . Accordingly the AC voltage Vpp may be made smaller than a conventional example shown in Table 7 described hereinafter. Thus image degradation such as discharge images does not occur in the superimposed transfer mode and good transferability in either the DC transfer mode or the superimposed transfer mode is attained.

In order to facilitate an understanding of the novel features of the illustrative embodiments as a comparison a description is provided of a conventional example with reference to Table 7.

The conventional example has a structure of the image forming apparatus of EMBODIMENT 1 with the same settings of the primary transfer current in the DC transfer mode and in the superimposed transfer mode.

Table 7 illustrates the settings and the toner charge before secondary transfer of the conventional example. A waveform of the secondary transfer bias with the conditions of Table 7 is shown in .

In the conventional example the primary transfer current in the DC transfer mode and in the superimposed transfer mode is the same. Accordingly the toner charge before secondary transfer is the same. As a result the secondary transfer current in the DC transfer mode and in the superimposed transfer mode also needs to be the same leading to setting the secondary transfer voltage Vpp much larger than in EMBODIMENT 1.

The present inventors performed an experiment with the settings and structure of EMBODIMENTS 1 to 4 and the conventional example in which a recording medium was processed in a superimposed transfer mode.

In the conventional example the generation of discharge images occurred due to high AC voltage. In EMBODIMENTS 1 to 4 the generation of discharge images was not seen exhibiting an advantage of the present disclosure.

In a configuration as in EMBODIMENT 1 the transferability of toner to the projecting portions is a little lower compared to the conventional example though is at an acceptable level. Due to having no generation of discharge images overall the configuration of EMBODIMENT 1 is advantageous compared to the conventional example. In a configuration as in EMBODIMENT 4 the transferability to the projecting portions is particularly enhanced by changing the waveform of the AC component. From the results it is clear that by making the absolute value of the DC component of the secondary transfer bias in the superimposed transfer mode smaller than the DC component of the secondary transfer bias in the DC transfer mode generation of discharge images is prevented. Also by adjusting the toner charge before secondary transfer the generation of discharge images is prevented and an advantageous effect to transferability to recessed portions and transferability to projecting portions can be observed. Furthermore by changing the AC component waveform an advantageous effect to transferability to recessed portions can be observed.

Although the present disclosure has been described with respect to a specific embodiment for a complete and clear disclosure the structure and settings are not to be thus limited but are to be construed as embodying all modifications and alternative constructions that may occur to one skilled in the art that fairly fall within the basic teachings herein set forth. The structure of the transfer device is arbitrary and the opposite device may be a belt structure. Also as a transfer method it is not limited to a method of forming a nip. A non contact method employing a charger as shown in or a method employing a secondary transfer belt as shown in may be employed. When using the secondary transfer belt the application of voltage may be done by a tension roller A that holds taut the secondary transfer belt or by a secondary transfer back surface roller opposite the tension roller A. Alternatively the voltage may be applied by a bias application roller different from the tension roller A. The bias application roller may be disposed opposite the secondary transfer back surface roller or disposed upstream or downstream the sheet passage.

The structure of the power source is arbitrary and may be a structure that fairly falls within the basic teachings herein set forth. Also the structure of the image forming device is arbitrary. In a tandem type configuration the order of image forming units is not limited to the configuration shown in the drawings. The foregoing descriptions pertain to an image forming apparatus using four colors of toners. The image forming apparatus includes but is not limited to a full color image forming apparatus employing two or more colors of toners and a so called single drum type image forming apparatus with one photoreceptor such as shown in . Furthermore the image forming apparatus includes but is not limited to an electrophotographic image forming apparatus a copier a printer a facsimile machine and a multi functional system including at least two of these functions thereof.

Furthermore it is to be understood that elements and or features of different illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims. In addition the number of constituent elements locations shapes and so forth of the constituent elements are not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

