---

title: Modal progress dialog
abstract: A system and method for modal progress dialog may provide progress feedback to a user when an application accesses or uses system resources on a computing platform. The application may access or use the system resource by invoking an operation via a system interface. Execution of the application may be blocked pending receiving a result of the system resource operation. The progress feedback may be provided by the system interface without the involvement of the application. The progress feedback may include displaying a progress dialog. The progress dialog may be displayed in a window associated with the application. The progress dialog may include a visual indication of a degree of completion of the system resource operation. The progress dialog may mitigate a user misinterpreting delays in completion of the system resource operation as misoperation or failure of the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09164778&OS=09164778&RS=09164778
owner: 2236008 Ontario Inc.
number: 09164778
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130129
---
The present disclosure relates to the field of human machine interfaces HMI . In particular to a system and method for modal progress dialog.

Various computing platforms provide for the execution of applications. The applications may include native applications and or 3 part applications. The applications access and use system resources e.g. objects in a file system by invoking system interfaces e g application programming interfaces API . In so doing the applications may be coded with little or no insight or knowledge into the detailed operation and control of the system resources.

When an application invokes a system interface to access or use a system resource there is typically a delay before the system interface responds. The delay can vary from a virtually human imperceptible time e.g. on the order of 10 s of mS for some local operations to a user frustratingly long time e.g. on the order of 10 s of sec to minutes for some network operations . In the absence of some feedback the user may mistakenly perceive a long delay as misoperation or failure of the application.

A system and method for modal progress dialog may provide progress feedback to a user when an application accesses or uses a system resource on a computing platform. The application may be a native or a 3 party application. The application may access or use the system resource by invoking an operation via a system interface. The system resource operation may include for example a file system operation a network operation an input output I O operation or other similar operations. Execution of the application may be blocked pending receiving a result of the system resource operation. The progress feedback may be provided by the system interface without the involvement of the application. The progress feedback may include displaying a progress dialog. The progress dialog may be displayed in a window associated with the application. The progress dialog may include a visual indication of a degree of completion of the system resource operation. The progress dialog may mitigate a user misinterpreting delays in completion of the system resource operation as misoperation or failure of the application.

The system and method for modal progress dialog may allow applications that access or use system resources to be coded with little or no insight or knowledge into the detailed operation and control of the system resources while still providing the user with progress feedback. The progress feedback may be provided by system software while the application is blocked pending receipt of the result of the system resource operation.

Each of one or more resource managers may provide management of and control access to one or more system resources . The action request may at least partially be processed by one or more resource managers . The resource managers may include for example a file system manager network protocol stack or I O controller. The system resources may include for example files and directories in a local or remote file system network streams I O pipes and other similar system resources. The action request may include operations such as for example file open file read file write file copy file or directory move file transfer and other similar operations on system resources .

The progress manager may interoperate with the system interface the one or more resource managers and other entities executable on the computing platform. The progress manager may determine when a progress dialog is to be displayed during the processing of an action request. Some action requests may be completed in a time duration that is perceived as immediate or acceptably short by a user. Other action requests may be completed in a time duration that is perceived as long or objectionable by the user. When no feedback is provided to the user for an action request that has long or objectionable duration delay the user may mistakenly perceive the delay as misoperation or failure of the application . The progress manager may determine when a progress dialog is to be displayed when an expected duration of processing the action request exceeds a threshold. The expected duration may be a function of any one or more of the action requested the system resource associated with the action requested a location of the system resource and a measured time to execute a portion of the action e.g. the time required to complete a first 1MB or a previous 5 of the operation . When the progress manager determines that a progress dialog is to be displayed the progress dialog may be shown on a display associated with the computing platform.

The processor may comprise a single processor or multiple processors that may be disposed on a single chip on multiple devices or distributed over more that one system. The processor may be hardware that executes computer executable instructions or computer code embodied in the memory or in other memory to perform one or more features of the system. The processor may include a general purpose processor a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital circuit an analog circuit a microcontroller any other type of processor or any combination thereof.

The memory may comprise a device for storing and retrieving data processor executable instructions or any combination thereof. The memory may include non volatile and or volatile memory such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or a flash memory. The memory may comprise a single device or multiple devices that may be disposed on one or more dedicated memory devices or on a processor or other similar device. Alternatively or in addition the memory may include an optical magnetic hard drive or any other form of data storage device.

The memory may store computer code such as code to render functions associated with system interface progress manager resource manager and applications as described herein. The computer code may include instructions executable with the processor . The computer code may be written in any computer language such as C C assembly language channel program code and or any combination of computer languages. The memory may store information in data structures including for example data elements used in support of progress dialog and progress indicator .

The I O interface may be used to connect devices such as for example system resource display control and to other components of the system .

All of the disclosure regardless of the particular implementation described is exemplary in nature rather than limiting. The systems and may include more fewer or different components than illustrated in . Furthermore each one of the components of systems and may include more fewer or different elements than is illustrated in . Flags data databases tables entities and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database may be distributed or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. The components may operate independently or be part of a same program or hardware. The components may be resident on separate hardware such as separate removable circuit boards or share common hardware such as a same memory and processor for implementing instructions from the memory. Programs may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors.

The functions acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described may be executed in response to one or more sets of logic or instructions stored in or on computer readable media. The functions acts or tasks are independent of the particular type of instructions set storage media processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software hardware integrated circuits firmware micro code and the like operating alone or in combination. Likewise processing strategies may include multiprocessing multitasking parallel processing distributed processing and or any other type of processing. In one embodiment the instructions are stored on a removable media device for reading by local or remote systems. In other embodiments the logic or instructions are stored in a remote location for transfer through a computer network or over telephone lines. In yet other embodiments the logic or instructions may be stored within a given computer such as for example a CPU.

While various embodiments of the system and method for on demand user control have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

