---

title: Compounds and compositions as kinase inhibitors
abstract: The invention provides novel pyrimidine derivatives and pharmaceutical compositions thereof, and methods for using such compounds. For example, the pyrimidine derivatives of the invention may be used to treat, ameliorate or prevent a condition which responds to inhibition of insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1R) or analplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08859574&OS=08859574&RS=08859574
owner: IRM LLC
number: 08859574
owner_city: Hamilton
owner_country: BM
publication_date: 20130723
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 000 955 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 519 129 which is a 371 U.S. national phase application of international application number PCT US2009 048428 filed 24 Jun. 2009 and claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. Nos. 61 075 583 filed 25 Jun. 2008 and 61 155 434 filed 25 Feb. 2009. Each of these applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates to protein kinase inhibitors more particularly novel pyrimidine derivatives and pharmaceutical compositions thereof and their use as pharmaceuticals.

Insulin like growth factor IGF 1 signaling is highly implicated in cancer with the IGF 1 receptor IGF 1R as the predominating factor. IGR 1R is important for tumor transformation and survival of malignant cells but is only partially involved in normal cell growth. Targeting of IGF 1R has been suggested to be a promising option for cancer therapy. Larsson et al. Br. J. Cancer 92 2097 2101 2005 .

Anaplastic lymphoma kinase ALK a member of the insulin receptor superfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases has been implicated in oncogenesis in hematopoietic and non hematopoietic tumors. The aberrant expression of full length ALK receptor proteins has been reported in neuroblastomas and glioblastomas and ALK fusion proteins have occurred in anaplastic large cell lymphoma. The study of ALK fusion proteins has also raised the possibility of new therapeutic treatments for patients with ALK positive malignancies. Pulford et al. Cell. Mol. Life. Sci. 61 2939 2953 2004 .

Because of the emerging disease related roles of IGF 1R and ALK there is a continuing need for compounds which may be useful for treating and preventing a disease which responds to inhibition of IGF 1R and ALK.

The invention relates to novel pyrimidine derivatives and pharmaceutical compositions thereof and their use as pharmaceuticals.

In some examples Zin the above Formula 2 is NRor N R O and Zand Zare CH. In other examples Ris H Calkyl optionally substituted with halo and or hydroxyl groups CR OR CR CH OH CFwherein t is 1 3 L Y CR CN CR NR R CR C O OR C O CR OR C O O CR NRR L C O R L C O NRR L C O NR CR NRR L C O CR NR C O R L S O R L S O CR NRR or a radical selected from formula a b c or d 

In the above Formula 1 and 2 Rmay be pyrazolyl isoxazolyl pyridine 2 onyl or azepan 2 onyl each of which is substituted with Calkyl Chaloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl.

In the above Formula 3 Rmay be halo and Ris Calkyl. In some examples Ris Calkyl or a radical of formula a or c and Ris O.

In the above Formula 1 2 and 3 Rmay be halo. In particular examples Ris chloro. In other examples Rand Rare H.

In another aspect the present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound having Formula 1 2 3 and 4 and a physiologically acceptable excipient.

In yet another aspect the invention provides methods for inhibiting IGF 1R in a cell comprising contacting the cell with an effective amount of a compound having Formula 1 2 3 and 4 or a pharmaceutical composition thereof.

The invention also provides methods to treat ameliorate or prevent a condition which responds to inhibition of IGF 1R or anaplastic lymphoma kinase ALK in a mammal suffering from said condition comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having Formula 1 2 3 and 4 or a pharmaceutical composition thereof and optionally in combination with a second therapeutic agent. Alternatively the present invention provides for the use of a compound having Formula 1 2 3 and 4 and optionally in combination with a second therapeutic agent in the manufacture of a medicament for treating a condition mediated by IGF 1R or ALK. The compounds of the invention may be administered for example to a mammal suffering from an autoimmune disease a transplantation disease an infectious disease or a cell proliferative disorder. In particular examples the compounds of the invention may be used alone or in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent to treat a cell proliferative disorder including but not limited to multiple myeloma neuroblastoma synovial hepatocellular Ewing s Sarcoma or a solid tumor selected from a osteosarcoma melanoma and tumor of breast renal prostate colorectal thyroid ovarian pancreatic lung uterine or gastrointestinal tumor.

 Alkyl refers to a moiety and as a structural element of other groups for example halo substituted alkyl and alkoxy and may be straight chained or branched. An optionally substituted alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl as used herein may be optionally halogenated e.g. CF or may have one or more carbons that is substituted or replaced with a heteroatom such as NR O or S e.g. OCHCHO alkylthiols thioalkoxy alkylamines etc .

 Aryl refers to a monocyclic or fused bicyclic aromatic ring containing carbon atoms. Arylene means a divalent radical derived from an aryl group. For example an aryl group may be phenyl indenyl indanyl naphthyl or 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalenyl which may be optionally substituted in the ortho meta or para position.

 Heteroaryl as used herein is as defined for aryl above where one or more of the ring members is a heteroatom. For example a heteroaryl substituent for use in the compounds of the invention may be a monocyclic or bicyclic 5 10 membered heteroaryl containing 1 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S. Examples of heteroaryls include but are not limited to pyridyl pyrazinyl indolyl indazolyl quinoxalinyl quinolinyl benzofuranyl benzopyranyl benzothiopyranyl benzo 1 3 dioxole imidazolyl benzo imidazolyl pyrimidinyl furanyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl triazolyl benzotriazolyl tetrazolyl pyrazolyl thienyl pyrrolyl isoquinolinyl purinyl thiazolyl tetrazinyl benzothiazolyl oxadiazolyl benzoxadiazolyl etc.

A carbocyclic ring as used herein refers to a saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic fused bicyclic or bridged polycyclic ring containing carbon atoms which may optionally be substituted for example with O. Examples of carbocyclic rings include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cyclopropylene cyclohexanone etc.

A heterocyclic ring as used herein is as defined for a carbocyclic ring above wherein one or more ring carbons is a heteroatom. For example a heterocyclic ring for use in the compounds of the invention may be a 4 7 membered heterocyclic ring containing 1 3 heteroatoms selected from N O and S or a combination thereof such as S O or S O . Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to azetidinyl morpholino pyrrolidinyl pyrrolidinyl 2 one piperazinyl piperidinyl piperidinylone 1 4 dioxa 8 aza spiro 4.5 dec 8 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolinyl etc. Heterocyclic rings as used herein may encompass bicyclic amines and bicyclic diamines.

As used herein an H atom in any substituent groups e.g. CH encompasses all suitable isotopic variations e.g. H H and H.

The term pharmaceutical combination as used herein refers to a product obtained from mixing or combining active ingredients and includes both fixed and non fixed combinations of the active ingredients. The term fixed combination means that the active ingredients e.g. a compound of Formula 1 and a co agent are both administered to a patient simultaneously in the form of a single entity or dosage. The term non fixed combination means that the active ingredients e.g. a compound of Formula 1 and a co agent are both administered to a patient as separate entities either simultaneously concurrently or sequentially with no specific time limits wherein such administration provides therapeutically effective levels of the active ingredients in the body of the patient. The latter also applies to cocktail therapy e.g. the administration of three or more active ingredients.

 Mammal refers to any animal classified as a mammal including humans domestic and farm animals and zoo sports or pet animals such as dogs cats cattle horses sheep pigs goats rabbits etc. In particular examples the mammal is human.

The term administration or administering of the subject compound means providing a compound of the invention and prodrugs thereof to a subject in need of treatment. Administration in combination with one or more further therapeutic agents includes simultaneous concurrent and consecutive administration in any order and in any route of administration.

An effective amount of a compound is an amount sufficient to carry out a specifically stated purpose. An effective amount may be determined empirically and in a routine manner in relation to the stated purpose.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of a compound e.g. an IGF 1R antagonist effective to treat an IGF 1R mediated disorder in a subject or mammal. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. See the definition herein of treating . To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic.

The term cancer refers to the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth proliferation. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma and leukemia. More particular examples of cancers include but are not limited to chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL lung including non small cell NSCLC breast ovarian cervical endometrial prostate colorectal intestinal carcinoid bladder gastric pancreatic hepatic hepatocellular hepatoblastoma esophageal pulmonary adenocarcinoma mesothelioma synovial sarcoma osteosarcoma head and neck squamous cell carcinoma juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibromas liposarcoma thyroid melanoma basal cell carcinoma BCC medulloblastoma and desmoid.

 Treating or treatment or alleviation refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen the targeted pathologic disease or condition or disorder. Those in need of treatment include those already with the disorder as well as those prone to having the disorder or those in whom the disorder is to be prevented prophylaxis . When the IGF 1R mediated disorder is cancer a subject or mammal is successfully treated or shows a reduced tumor burden if after receiving a therapeutic amount of an IGF 1R antagonist according to the methods of the present invention the patient shows observable and or measurable reduction in or absence of one or more of the following reduction in the number of cancer cells or absence of the cancer cells reduction in the tumor size inhibition i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop of cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs including the spread of cancer into soft tissue and bone inhibition i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop of tumor metastasis inhibition to some extent of tumor growth and or relief to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the specific cancer reduced morbidity and mortality and improvement in quality of life issues. To the extent the IGF 1R antagonist may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. Reduction of these signs or symptoms may also be felt by the patient.

 Carriers as used herein include pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers which are nontoxic to the cell or mammal being exposed thereto at the dosages and concentrations employed. Often the physiologically acceptable carrier is an aqueous pH buffered solution. Examples of physiologically acceptable carriers include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptide proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugar alcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol salt forming counterions such as sodium and or nonionic surfactants such as TWEEN polyethylene glycol PEG and PLURONICS .

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethiylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone delta 9 tetrahydrocannabinol dronabinol MARINOL beta lapachone lapachol colchicines betulinic acid a camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan HYCAMTIN CPT 11 irinotecan CAMPTOSAR acetylcamptothecin scopolectin and 9 aminocamptothecin bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues podophyllotoxin podophyllinic acid teniposide cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 see e.g. Agnew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 33 183 186 1994 dynemicin including dynemicin A an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antiobiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin including morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogues such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfomithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine ELDISINE FILDESIN dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranbucil gemcitabine GEMZAR 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine VELBAN platinum etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine ONCOVIN oxaliplatin leucovovin vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin ibandronate topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid capecitabine XELODA pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above as well as combinations of two or more of the above such as CHOP an abbreviation for a combined therapy of cyclophosphamide doxorubicin vincristine and prednisolone and FOLFOX an abbreviation for a treatment regimen with oxaliplatin ELOXATIN combined with 5 FU and leucovovin.

Furthermore a chemotherapeutic agent may include anti hormonal agents that act to regulate reduce block or inhibit the effects of hormones that can promote the growth of cancer and are often in the form of systemic or whole body treatment. They may be hormones themselves. Examples include anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen EVISTA raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifene anti progesterones estrogen receptor down regulators ERDs agents that function to suppress or shut down the ovaries for example leutinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH agonists such as LUPRON and ELIGARD leuprolide acetate goserelin acetate buserelin acetate and tripterelin other anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide and bicalutamide and aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole and ARIMIDEX anastrozole. In addition such definition of chemotherapeutic agents includes bisphosphonates such as clodronate for example BONEFOS or OSTAC DIDROCAL etidronate NE 58095 ZOMETA zoledronic acid zoledronate FOSAMAX alendronate AREDIA pamidronate SKELID tiludronate or ACTONEL risedronate as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog antisense oligonucleotides particularly those that inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in abherant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Raf H Ras and epidermal growth factor receptor EGF R vaccines such as THERATOPE vaccine and gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN vaccine LEUVECTIN vaccine and VAXID vaccine LURTOTECAN topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ABARELIX rmRH lapatinib ditosylate an ErbB 2 and EGFR dual tyrosine kinase small molecule inhibitor also known as GW572016 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above.

The invention provides novel pyrimidine derivatives and pharmaceutical compositions thereof and methods for using such compounds.

In the above Formula 5 examples of 5 6 membered heteroaryl or 5 7 membered heterocyclic ring Rgroups include but are not limited to pyrazolyl pyrrolyl thiophenyl pyrimidinyl isoxazolyl pyridyl azepan 2 onyl 2H thipyran 3H thipyran 4H thipyran tetrahydrothiopyran 2H pyran 4H pyran tetrahydropyran piperidine 1 2 dithiin 1 2 dithiane 1 3 dithiin 1 3 dithiane 1 4 dithiin 1 4 dithiane 1 2 dioxin 1 2 dioxane 1 3 dioxin 1 3 dioxane 1 4 dioxin 1 4 dioxane piperazine 1 2 oxathiin 1 2 oxathiane 4H 1 3 oxathiin 1 3 oxathiane 1 4 oxathiin 1 4 oxathiane 2H 1 2 thiazine tetrahydro 1 2 thiazine 2H 1 3 thiazine 4H 1 3 thiazine 5 6 dihydro 4H thiazine 4H 1 4 thiazine tetrahydro 1 4 thiazine 2H 1 2 oxazine 4H 1 2 oxazine 6H 1 2 oxazine 2H 1 3 oxazine 4H 1 3 oxazine 4H 1 4 oxazine morpholine trioxane 4H 1 2 3 trithiin 1 2 3 trithiane 1 3 5 trithiane hexahydro 1 3 5 triazine tetrahydrothiophene tetrahydrofuran pyrroline pyrrolidine pyrrolidone pyrrolidione pyrazoline pyrazolidine imidazoline imidazolidine 1 2 dioxole 1 2 dioxolane 1 3 dioxole 1 3 dioxolane 3H 1 2 dithiole 1 2 dithiolane 1 3 dithiole 1 3 dithiolane isoxazoline isoxazolidine oxazoline oxazolidine thiazoline thiozolidine 3H 1 2 oxathiole 1 2 oxathiolane 5H 1 2 oxathiole 1 3 oxathiole 1 3 oxathiolane 1 2 3 trithiole 1 2 3 trithiolane 1 2 4 trithiolane 1 2 3 trioxole 1 2 3 trioxolane 1 2 4 trioxolane 1 2 3 triazoline and 1 2 3 triazolidine.

In each of the above formula any asymmetric carbon atoms may be present in the R S or R S configuration. The compounds may thus be present as mixtures of isomers or as pure isomers for example as pure enantiomers or diastereomers. The invention further encompasses possible tautomers of the inventive compounds.

Any formula given herein is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as well as isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have structures depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N F P P S Cl I respectively.

The invention includes various isotopically labeled compounds as defined herein for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H C and C are present. Such isotopically labelled compounds are useful in metabolic studies with for example C reaction kinetic studies with for example H or H detection or imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography PET or single photon emission computed tomography SPECT including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays or in radioactive treatment of patients. In other examples an F or labeled compound may be used for PET or SPECT studies. Isotopic variations of the compounds have the potential to change a compound s metabolic fate and or create small changes in physical properties such as hydrophobicity and the like. Isotopic variations also have the potential to enhance efficacy and safety enhance bioavailability and half life alter protein binding change biodistribution increase the proportion of active metabolites and or decrease the formation of reactive or toxic metabolites. Isotopically labeled compounds of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

In each of the above formula each optionally substituted moiety may be substituted with Calkyl Calkenyl or Calkynyl each of which may be optionally halogenated or optionally having a carbon that may be replaced or substituted with N S O or a combination thereof for example hydroxylC Calkyl C CalkoxyC Calkyl halo amino amidino Calkoxy hydroxyl methylenedioxy carboxy Calkylcarbonyl Calkoxycarbonyl carbamoyl Calkylcarbamoyl sulfamoyl cyano oxo nitro or an optionally substituted carbocyclic ring heterocyclic ring aryl or heteroaryl as previously described.

The compounds of the invention and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts exhibit valuable pharmacological properties when tested in vitro in cell free kinase assays and in cellular assays and are therefore useful as pharmaceuticals.

In one aspect the compounds of the invention may inhibit insulin like growth factor receptor 1 IGF 1R and may be useful in the treatment of IGF 1 R mediated diseases. Examples of IGF 1R mediated diseases include but are not limited to proliferative diseases such as tumors for example breast renal prostate colorectal thyroid ovarian pancreas neuronal lung uterine and gastro intestinal tumors as well as osteosarcomas and melanomas. The efficacy of the compounds of the invention as inhibitors of IGF 1R tyrosine kinase activity may be demonstrated using a cellular capture ELISA. In this assay the activity of the compounds of the invention against IGF 1 induced autophosphorylation of the IGF 1R is determined.

In another aspect the compounds of the invention may inhibit the tyrosine kinase activity of anaplastic lymphoma kinase ALK and the fusion protein of NPM ALK. This protein tyrosine kinase results from a gene fusion of nucleophosmin NPM and ALK rendering the protein tyrosine kinase activity of ALK ligand independent. NPM ALK plays a key role in signal transmission in a number of hematopoetic and other human cells leading to hematological and neoplastic diseases for example in anaplastic large cell lymphoma ALCL and non Hodgkin s lymphomas NHL specifically in ALK NHL or Alkomas in inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors IMT and neuroblastomas. Duyster et al. 2001 Oncogene 20 5623 5637 . In addition to NPM ALK other gene fusions have been identified in human hematological and neoplastic diseases for example TPM3 ALK a fusion of nonmuscle tropomyosin with ALK .

The inhibition of ALK tyrosine kinase activity may be demonstrated using known methods for example using the recombinant kinase domain of the ALK in analogy to the VEGF R kinase assay described in J. Wood et al. Cancer Res. 60 2178 2189 2000 . In general in vitro enzyme assays using GST ALK protein tyrosine kinase are performed in 96 well plates as a filter binding assay in 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 3 mM MgCl 10 mM MnCl 1 mM DTT 0.1 Ci assay 30 l P ATP 2 M ATP 3 g mL poly Glu Tyr 4 1 Poly EY Sigma P 0275 1 DMSO 25 ng ALK enzyme. Assays are incubated for 10 min at ambient temperature. Reactions are terminated by adding 50 l of 125 mM EDTA and the reaction mixture is transferred onto a MAIP Multiscreen plate Millipore Bedford Mass. USA previously wet with methanol and rehydrated for 5 min with HO. Following washing 0.5 HPO plates are counted in a liquid scintillation counter. ICvalues are calculated by linear regression analysis of the percentage inhibition.

The compounds of the invention may potently inhibit the growth of human NPM ALK overexpressing murine BaF3 cells DSMZ Deutsche Sammiung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen GmbH Germany . The expression of NPM ALK may be achieved by transfecting the BaF3 cell line with an expression vector pClneo Promega Corp. Madison Wis. USA coding for NPM ALK and subsequent selection of G418 resistant cells. Non transfected BaF3 cells depend on IL 3 for cell survival. In contrast NPM ALK expressing BaF3 cells named BaF3 NPM ALK hereinafter can proliferate in the absence of IL 3 because they obtain proliferative signal through NPM ALK kinase. Putative inhibitors of the NPM ALK kinase therefore abolish the growth signal and may result in antiproliferative activity. The antiproliferative activity of putative inhibitors of the NPM ALK kinase can however be overcome by addition of IL 3 which provides growth signals through an NPM ALK independent mechanism. An analogous cell system using FLT3 kinase has also been described see E Weisberg et al. Cancer Cell 1 433 443 2002 .

The inhibitory activity of the compounds of the invention may be determined as follows. In general BaF3 NPM ALK cells 15 000 microtitre plate well are transferred to 96 well microtitre plates. Test compounds dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO are added in a series of concentrations dilution series in such a manner that the final concentration of DMSO is not greater than 1 v v . After the addition the plates are incubated for two days during which the control cultures without test compound are able to undergo two cell division cycles. The growth of the BaF3 NPM ALK cells is measured by means of YOPRO staining T Idziorek et al. J. Immunol. Methods 185 249 258 1995 25 l of lysis buffer comprising 20 mM sodium citrate pH 4.0 26.8 mM sodium chloride 0.4 NP40 and 20 mM EDTA is added to each well. Cell lysis is completed within 60 min at room temperature and total amount of YOPRO bound to DNA is determined by measurement using the Cytofluor II 96 well reader PerSeptive Biosystems with the following settings Excitation nm 485 20 and Emission nm 530 25.

The compounds of the invention may also be useful in the treatment and or prevention of acute or chronic inflammatory diseases or disorders or autoimmune diseases e.g. rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis systemic lupus erythematosus Hashimoto s thyroiditis multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis diabetes type I and II and the disorders associated therewith respiratory diseases such as asthma or inflammatory liver injury inflammatory glomerular injury cutaneous manifestations of immunologically mediated disorders or illnesses inflammatory and hyperproliferative skin diseases such as psoriasis atopic dermatitis allergic contact dermatitis irritant contact dermatitis and further eczematous dermatitis seborrhoeic dermatitis inflammatory eye diseases e.g. Sjoegren s syndrome keratoconjunctivitis or uveitis inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease or ulcerative colitis.

In general compounds of the invention will be administered in therapeutically effective amounts via any of the usual and acceptable modes known in the art either singly or in combination with one or more therapeutic agents. A therapeutically effective amount may vary widely depending on the severity of the disease the age and relative health of the subject the potency of the compound used and other factors known to those of ordinary skill in the art. For example for the treatment of neoplastic diseases and immune system disorders the required dosage will also vary depending on the mode of administration the particular condition to be treated and the effect desired.

In general satisfactory results are indicated to be obtained systemically at daily dosages of from about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg per body weight or particularly from about 0.03 to 2.5 mg kg per body weight. An indicated daily dosage in the larger mammal e.g. humans may be in the range from about 0.5 mg to about 2000 mg or more particularly from about 0.5 mg to about 100 mg conveniently administered for example in divided doses up to four times a day or in retard form. Suitable unit dosage forms for oral administration comprise from ca. 1 to 50 mg active ingredient.

Compounds of the invention may be administered as pharmaceutical compositions by any conventional route for example enterally e.g. orally e.g. in the form of tablets or capsules parenterally e.g. in the form of injectable solutions or suspensions or topically e.g. in the form of lotions gels ointments or creams or in a nasal or suppository form.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of the present invention in free form or in a pharmaceutically acceptable salt form in association with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent may be manufactured in a conventional manner by mixing granulating coating dissolving or lyophilizing processes. For example pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of the invention in association with at least one pharmaceutical acceptable carrier or diluent may be manufactured in conventional manner by mixing with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. Unit dosage forms for oral administration contain for example from about 0.1 mg to about 500 mg of active substance.

In one embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are solutions of the active ingredient including suspensions or dispersions such as isotonic aqueous solutions. In the case of lyophilized compositions comprising the active ingredient alone or together with a carrier such as mannitol dispersions or suspensions can be made up before use. The pharmaceutical compositions may be sterilized and or contain adjuvants such as preserving stabilizing wetting or emulsifying agents solution promoters salts for regulating the osmotic pressure and or buffers. Suitable preservatives include but are not limited to antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or microbicides such as sorbic acid or benzoic acid. The solutions or suspensions may further comprise viscosity increasing agents including but not limited to sodium carboxymethylcellulose carboxymethylcellulose dextran polyvinylpyrrolidone gelatins or solubilizers e.g. Tween 80 polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan mono oleate .

Suspensions in oil may comprise as the oil component the vegetable synthetic or semi synthetic oils customary for injection purposes. Examples include liquid fatty acid esters that contain as the acid component a long chained fatty acid having from 8 to 22 carbon atoms or in some embodiments from 12 to 22 carbon atoms. Suitable liquid fatty acid esters include but are not limited to lauric acid tridecylic acid myristic acid pentadecylic acid palmitic acid margaric acid stearic acid arachidic acid behenic acid or corresponding unsaturated acids for example oleic acid elaidic acid erucic acid brassidic acid and linoleic acid and if desired may contain antioxidants for example vitamin E 3 carotene or 3 5 di tert butyl hydroxytoluene. The alcohol component of these fatty acid esters may have six carbon atoms and may be monovalent or polyvalent for example a mono di or trivalent alcohol. Suitable alcohol components include but are not limited to methanol ethanol propanol butanol or pentanol or isomers thereof glycol and glycerol.

Other suitable fatty acid esters include but are not limited ethyl oleate isopropyl myristate isopropyl palmitate LABRAFIL M 2375 polyoxyethylene glycerol LABRAFIL M 1944 CS unsaturated polyglycolized glycerides prepared by alcoholysis of apricot kernel oil and comprising glycerides and polyethylene glycol ester LABRASOL saturated polyglycolized glycerides prepared by alcoholysis of TCM and comprising glycerides and polyethylene glycol ester all available from GaKefosse France and or MIGLYOL 812 triglyceride of saturated fatty acids of chain length Cto Cfrom H ls A G Germany and vegetable oils such as cottonseed oil almond oil olive oil castor oil sesame oil soybean oil or groundnut oil.

Pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration may be obtained for example by combining the active ingredient with one or more solid carriers and if desired granulating a resulting mixture and processing the mixture or granules by the inclusion of additional excipients to form tablets or tablet cores.

Suitable carriers include but are not limited to fillers such as sugars for example lactose saccharose mannitol or sorbitol cellulose preparations and or calcium phosphates for example tricalcium phosphate or calcium hydrogen phosphate and also binders such as starches for example corn wheat rice or potato starch methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose and or polyvinylpyrrolidone and or if desired disintegrators such as the above mentioned starches carboxymethyl starch crosslinked polyvinylpyrrolidone alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate. Additional excipients include flow conditioners and lubricants for example silicic acid talc stearic acid or salts thereof such as magnesium or calcium stearate and or polyethylene glycol or derivatives thereof.

Tablet cores may be provided with suitable optionally enteric coatings through the use of inter alia concentrated sugar solutions which may comprise gum arable talc polyvinylpyrrolidone polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide or coating solutions in suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures or for the preparation of enteric coatings solutions of suitable cellulose preparations such as acetylcellulose phthalate or hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate. Dyes or pigments may be added to the tablets or tablet coatings for example for identification purposes or to indicate different doses of active ingredient.

Pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration may also include hard capsules comprising gelatin or soft sealed capsules comprising gelatin and a plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol. The hard capsules may contain the active ingredient in the form of granules for example in admixture with fillers such as corn starch binders and or glidants such as talc or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. In soft capsules the active ingredient may be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquid excipients such as fatty oils paraffin oil or liquid polyethylene glycols or fatty acid esters of ethylene or propylene glycol to which stabilizers and detergents for example of the polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid ester type may also be added.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for rectal administration are for example suppositories comprising a combination of the active ingredient and a suppository base. Suitable suppository bases are for example natural or synthetic triglycerides paraffin hydrocarbons polyethylene glycols or higher alkanols.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for parenteral administration may comprise aqueous solutions of an active ingredient in water soluble form for example of a water soluble salt or aqueous injection suspensions that contain viscosity increasing substances for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose sorbitol and or dextran and if desired stabilizers. The active ingredient optionally together with excipients can also be in the form of a lyophilizate and can be made into a solution before parenteral administration by the addition of suitable solvents. Solutions such as are used for example for parenteral administration can also be employed as infusion solutions. The manufacture of injectable preparations is usually carried out under sterile conditions as is the filling for example into ampoules or vials and the sealing of the containers.

The compounds of the invention may be administered as the sole active ingredient or together with other drugs useful against neoplastic diseases or useful in immunomodulating regimens. For example the compounds of the invention may be used in accordance with the invention in combination with pharmaceutical compositions effective in various diseases as described above e.g. with cyclophosphamide 5 fluorouracil fludarabine gemcitabine cisplatinum carboplatin vincristine vinblastine etoposide irinotecan paclitaxel docetaxel rituxan doxorubicine gefitinib or imatinib or also with cyclosporins rapamycins ascomycins or their immunosuppressive analogs e.g. cyclosporin A cyclosporin G FK 506 sirolimus or everolimus corticosteroids e.g. prednisone cyclophosphamide azathioprene methotrexate gold salts sulfasalazine antimalarials brequinar leflunomide mizoribine mycophenolic acid mycophenolate mofetil 15 deoxyspergualine immuno suppressive monoclonal antibodies e.g. monoclonal antibodies to leukocyte receptors e.g. MHC CD2 CD3 CD4 CD7 CD25 CD28 I CD40 CD45 CD58 CD80 CD86 CD152 CD137 CD154 ICOS LFA 1 VLA 4 or their ligands or other immunomodulatory compounds e.g. CTLA41g.

The invention also provides for a pharmaceutical combinations e.g. a kit comprising a a first agent which is a compound of the invention as disclosed herein in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form and b at least one co agent. The kit can comprise instructions for its administration.

General procedures for preparing compounds of the invention are described in the Examples infra. In the reactions described reactive functional groups for example hydroxy amino imino thio or carboxy groups where these are desired in the final product may be protected to avoid their unwanted participation in the reactions. Conventional protecting groups may be used in accordance with standard practice see e.g. T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts in Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley and Sons 1991 .

The compounds of the invention including their salts are also obtainable in the form of hydrates or their crystals may include for example the solvent used for crystallization present as solvates . Salts can usually be converted to compounds in free form e.g. by treating with suitable basic agents for example with alkali metal carbonates alkali metal hydrogen carbonates or alkali metal hydroxides such as potassium carbonate or sodium hydroxide. A compound of the invention in a base addition salt form may be converted to the corresponding free acid by treating with a suitable acid e.g. hydrochloric acid etc. . In view of the close relationship between the novel compounds in free form and those in the form of their salts including those salts that may be used as intermediates for example in the purification or identification of the novel compounds any reference to the free compounds is to be understood as referring also to the corresponding salts as appropriate.

Salts of the inventive compounds with a salt forming group may be prepared in a manner known per se. Acid addition salts of compounds of Formula 1 2 3 and 4 may thus be obtained by treatment with an acid or with a suitable anion exchange reagent. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the invention may be formed for example as acid addition salts with organic or inorganic acids from compounds of Formula 1 2 3 and 4 with a basic nitrogen atom.

Suitable inorganic acids include but are not limited to halogen acids such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid or phosphoric acid. Suitable organic acids include but are not limited to carboxylic phosphoric sulfonic or sulfamic acids for example acetic acid propionic acid octanoic acid decanoic acid dodecanoic acid glycolic acid lactic acid fumaric acid succinic acid adipic acid pimelic acid suberic acid azelaic acid malic acid tartaric acid citric acid amino acids such as glutamic acid or aspartic acid maleic acid hydroxymaleic acid methylmaleic acid cyclohexanecarboxylic acid adamantanecarboxylic acid benzoic acid salicylic acid 4 aminosalicylic acid phthalic acid phenylacetic acid mandelic acid cinnamic acid methane or ethane sulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid ethane 1 2 disulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid 2 naphthalenesulfonic acid 1 5 naphthalene disulfonic acid 2 3 or 4 methylbenzenesulfonic acid methylsulfuric acid ethylsulfuric acid dodecylsulfuric acid N cyclohexylsulfamic acid N methyl N ethyl or N propyl sulfamic acid or other organic protonic acids such as ascorbic acid. For isolation or purification purposes it is also possible to use pharmaceutically unacceptable salts for example picrates or perchlorates. For therapeutic use only pharmaceutically acceptable salts or free compounds are employed where applicable in the form of pharmaceutical preparations .

Compounds of the invention in unoxidized form may be prepared from N oxides of compounds of the invention by treating with a reducing agent e.g. sulfur sulfur dioxide triphenyl phosphine lithium borohydride sodium borohydride phosphorus trichloride tribromide or the like in a suitable inert organic solvent e.g. acetonitrile ethanol aqueous dioxane or the like at 0 to 80 C.

Prodrug derivatives of the compounds of the invention may be prepared by methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art e.g. for further details see Saulnier et al. 1994 Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters Vol. 4 p. 1985 . For example appropriate prodrugs may be prepared by reacting a non derivatized compound of the invention with a suitable carbamylating agent e.g. 1 1 acyloxyalkylcarbanochloridate para nitrophenyl carbonate or the like .

Protected derivatives of the compounds of the invention may be made by means known to those of ordinary skill in the art. A detailed description of techniques applicable to the creation of protecting groups and their removal may be found in T. W. Greene Protecting Groups in Organic Chemistry 3edition John Wiley and Sons Inc. 1999.

Compounds of the invention may be prepared as their individual stereoisomers by reacting a racemic mixture of the compound with an optically active resolving agent to form a pair of diastereoisomeric compounds separating the diastereomers and recovering the optically pure enantiomers. Resolution of enantiomers may be carried out using covalent diastereomeric derivatives of the compounds of the invention or by using dissociable complexes e.g. crystalline diastereomeric salts . Diastereomers have distinct physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points solubilities reactivity etc. and may be readily separated by taking advantage of these dissimilarities. The diastereomers may be separated by fractionated crystallization chromatography or by separation resolution techniques based upon differences in solubility. The optically pure enantiomer is then recovered along with the resolving agent by any practical means that would not result in racemization. A more detailed description of the techniques applicable to the resolution of stereoisomers of compounds from their racemic mixture may be found in Jean Jacques Andre Collet Samuel H. Wilen Enantiomers Racemates and Resolutions John Wiley And Sons Inc. 1981.

Insofar as the production of the starting materials is not particularly described the compounds are known or can be prepared analogously to methods known in the art or as disclosed in the Examples hereinafter. One of skill in the art will appreciate that the above transformations are only representative of methods for preparation of the compounds of the present invention and that other well known methods can similarly be used. The present invention is further exemplified but not limited by the following and Examples that illustrate the preparation of the compounds of the invention.

A mixture of 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 amine 3.00 g 30.9 mmol 2 4 5 trichloropyrimidine 5.67 g 30.9 mmol 1 equiv. and NaCO 3.60 g 34.0 mmol 1.1 equiv. in EtOH 100 mL was heated at 40 C. for 24 h. The solvent was removed in vacuo. The resulting residue was partitioned between EtOAc 350 mL and water 100 mL . The EtOAc layer was washed with water 3 saturated aqueous NaCl 1 and dried over NaSO. The resulting EtOAc solution was concentrated in vacuo providing the product 2 5 dichloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine 

A mixture of 2 4 dichloro 5 trifluoromethyl pyrimidine 1.06 g 4.86 mmol 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 amine 472.2 mg 4.86 mmol and sodium carbonate 2.06 g 19.4 mmol in 100 mL of EtOH was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The crude solid was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO concentrated in vacuo and purified by silica chromatography EtOAc hexanes 1 1 to afford 2 chloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 5 trifluoromethyl pyrimidin 4 amine ESMS m z 278.0 M H .

A mixture of 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 amine 3.00 g 30.9 mmol 2 4 dichloro 5 methylpyrimidine 5.03 g 30.9 mmol 1 equiv. and NaCO 3.60 g 34.0 mmol 1.1 equiv. in EtOH 100 mL was heated at 40 C. for 24 h. The solvent was removed in vacuo. The resulting residue was partitioned between EtOAc 350 mL and water 100 mL . The EtOAc layer was washed with water 3 saturated aqueous NaCl 1 dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude product was sonicated in EtO 200 mL and the resulting precipitate collected by filtration. This powder was further washed with EtO providing the product 2 chloro 5 methyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine ESMS m z 224.1 M H .

The mixture 5 methylisoxazol 3 amine 98 mg 1.0 mmol 2 4 5 trichloropyrimidine 344 L 3.0 mmol and sodium carbonate 106 mg 1.0 mmol in 3 mL of EtOH was heated at 60 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated and then partitioned between EtOAc and brine. The collected organic extracts were dried NaSO concentrated in vacuo and purified with silica gel chromatography MeOH DCM 1 9 to afford N 2 5 dichloropyrimidin 4 yl 5 methylisoxazol 3 amine ESMS m z 245.0 M H .

A mixture of 5 cyclopropyl 1H pyrazol 3 amine 246 mg 2.00 mmol 2 4 5 trichloropyrimidine 367 mg 2.00 mmol 1 equiv. and NaCO 233 mg 2.20 mmol 1.1 equiv. in EtOH 10 mL was heated at 40 C. for 16 h. The crude reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and sequentially washed with water 3 and saturated aqueous NaCl 1 . The resulting EtOAc layer was dried over NaSOand then concentrated in vacuo providing 2 5 dichloro N 5 cyclopropyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine ESMS m z 270.0 M H .

A mixture of amino caprolactam 256 mg 2.0 mmol 2 4 5 trichloropyrimidine 366 mg 2.0 mmol 1 equiv. and NaHCO 168 mg 2 mmol 1 equiv. in a mixture of MeOH 12 mL and HO 6 mL was stirred at room temperature for 15 h. The resulting precipitate was collected by vacuum filtration and washed with small amounts of MeOH and water providing the product 3 2 5 dichloropyrimidin 4 ylamino azepan 2 one ESMS m z 275.0 M H .

A mixture of 3 aminopyridin 2 1H one 99 mg 0.90 mmol 2 4 5 trichloropyrimidine 165 mg 0.90 mmol 1 equiv. and NaHCO 76 mg 0.90 mmol 1 equiv. in a mixture of MeOH 6 mL and HO 3 mL was stirred at room temperature for 24 h. The resulting precipitate was collected by vacuum filtration and washed with small amounts of MeOH and water providing the product 3 2 5 dichloropyrimidin 4 ylamino pyridin 2 1H one ESMS m z 257.0 M H .

To a mixture of 2 5 dichloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine 2.44 g 10 mmol and 4 toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 1.9 g 10 mmol in THF 200 mL was added DHP 4.25 g 50 mmol . After stirring overnight the reaction turned clear. After concentration the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and washed with NaCOsaturated aqueous solution. The organic layer was then washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford 2 5 Dichloro N 5 methyl 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine as light yellow solid which was used in subsequent reactions without further purification ESMS m z 244 M THP H TLC Rf 0.6 Silica 1 1 ethyl acetate hexanes starting material Rf 0.2 .

A mixture of E 4 amino 4 ethoxy 1 1 1 trifluorobut 3 en 2 one 5.00 g 27 mmol and hydrazine 1.05 g in anhydrous EtOH 20 mL was stirred at 80 C. in a sealed vial overnight. The reaction was quenched with water 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 100 ml then 2 50 mL . The EtOAc layers were combined and sequentially washed with water 25 mL brine 25 mL dried over NaSOand evaporated to give a light brown oily residue. The crude product was purified by silica chromatography 30 100 EtOAc in hexanes gradient to give 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 3 amine as an off white solid ESMS m z 152.0 M H .

A mixture of 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 3 amine 500 mg 3.3 mmol 2 4 5 trichloropyrimidine 607 mg 3.3 mmol and sodium carbonate 525 mg 5 mmol in anhydrous EtOH 10 mL was stirred at rt. After one day LCMS showed the reaction was not complete. Additional 2 4 5 trichloropyrimidine 0.15 mL and sodium carbonate 525 mg were added and the reaction continued for two more days. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was extracted with DCM 3 20 mL . The combined DCM layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSOand evaporated. The crude product was purified by silica chromatography 0 50 EtOAc in hexanes gradient to give 2 5 Dichloro N 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine as a light tan colored solid ESMS m z 297.9 M H .

A mixture of 5 ethyl 1H pyrazol 3 amine 1.00 g 6.77 mmol 2 4 5 trichloropyrimidine 1.24 g 6.77 mmol and NaCO 1.79 g 16.9 mmol in iso propanol 15 mL was stirred in a sealed vial at rt for two days. Water 10 mL was added. The solid was collected by filtration washed with water 10 mL and dried to give 2 5 Dichloro N 5 ethyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine as a light yellow solid ESMS m z 258.0 M H .

To a solution of 2 chloro 4 methyl 1 trifluoromethyl benzene 6.65 g 34.1 mmol in conc. sulfuric acid 25 mL at 0 C. was added potassium nitrate 3.46 g 34.1 mmol in sulfuric acid 15 mL . After stirring at 0 C. for 1.5 h the reaction mixture was poured into 500 mL of ice water. The precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with copious amounts of water yielding 1 chloro 5 fluoro 4 nitro 2 trifluoromethyl benzene as an orange solid H NMR 400 MHz chloroform d 8.356 s 1H 7.543 s 1H 2.660 s 3H .

Following the same procedure as described in Intermediate 11 starting with 2 bromo 4 methylbenzonitrile 2 bromo 4 methyl 5 nitrobenzonitrile was obtained as a yellow solid H NMR 400 MHz chloroform d 8.290 s 1H 7.742 s 1H 2.683 s 3H .

To a solution of 2 bromo 4 methyl 5 nitrobenzonitrile 500 mg 2.07 mmol in ethanol 20 mL was added tin chloride 785 mg 4.14 mmol . The mixture was refluxed for 5 h. After cooling to room temperature triethylamine 1.01 g 10 mmol was added. The mixture was concentrated and purified by silica chromatography 30 50 ethyl acetate in hexanes gradient to afford 5 Amino 2 bromo 4 methylbenzonitrile a as beige solid ESMS m z 211 M H .

Following the same procedure as described in Intermediate 11 starting with methyl 2 bromo 4 methylbenzoate the title compound was obtained as a white solid H NMR 400 MHz chloroform d 8.505 s 1H 7.711 s 1H 3.967 s 3H 2.640 s 3H .

Following the same procedure as described in Intermediate 13 the title compound was obtained as a beige solid ESMS m z 244 M H .

To a solution of triethylamine 2.9 g 14.4 mmol and 5 methoxy 2 methylaniline 1.0 g 7.2 mmol in DCM 30 mL at 0 C. was added acetyl chloride 0.57 g 7.2 mmol dropwise. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride aqueous solution and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was dried over NaSOand concentrated to give N 5 methoxy 2 methylphenyl acetamide as needle shaped crystals. The crude product was used in the next step without further purification.

To a solution of N 5 methoxy 2 methylphenyl acetamide in acetic acid 40 mL was added Br 3 g 19 mmol slowly. The mixture was capped and stirred at 50 C. for 5 hours. The reaction was cooled to room temperature then quenched with sodium sulfite aqueous solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over NaSOand concentrated to give crude N 4 bromo 5 methoxy 2 methylphenyl acetamide as a brown oil which was used in the next step without further purification.

N 4 bromo 5 methoxy 2 methylphenyl acetamide was dissolved in methanol 15 mL and concentrated HCl 30 mL . The mixture was refluxed at 95 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the mixture was poured into ice water and basified to pH 12 with conc. NaOH aqueous solution. The mixture was then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over NaSOand concentrated. The crude product was purified by silica chromatography 15 ethyl acetate in hexanes to give 4 bromo 5 methoxy 2 methylaniline as a beige solid H NMR 400 mHz CDCl 7.20 s 1H 6.37 s 1H 4.6 br 2H 3.82 s 3H 2.12 s 3H .

A mixture of 4 bromo 2 fluoro 5 methylaniline 2.0 g 9.8 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 2.74 g 10.8 mmol tricyclohexylphosphine 274.8 mg 0.98 mmol Pd dba 448.9 mg 0.49 mmol and potassium acetate 1.92 g 19.6 mmol in 60 mL of 1 4 dioxane was degassed and purged with nitrogen. The reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. overnight and then cooled to room temperature. The mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and water and the collected organic extracts were dried NaSO concentrated in vacuo and purified by silica chromatography EtOAc Hexanes 20 80 to afford 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl aniline ESMS m z 252.2 M H .

To a solution of 2 bromo 4 fluoro 1 methylbenzene 5 g 26.4 mmol dissolved in conc. sulfuric acid 20 mL was added potassium nitrate 2.67 g 26.4 mmol in sulfuric acid 5 mL at 0 C. After stirring at 0 C. for 1 hr the reaction was diluted with water extracted with ethyl acetate 3 40 mL . The combined organic phases were washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and brine sequentially and then dried over NaSO. The crude product obtained after concentration was purified by silica gel column chromatography with mixed solvent hexanes EtOAc 95 5 to afford 1 bromo 5 fluoro 2 methyl 4 nitrobenzene as an orange solid. H NMR 400 MHz chloroform d 7.93 d 1H J 7.6 Hz 7.50 d 1H J 10 Hz 2.43 s 3H .

To a solution of 1 bromo 5 fluoro 2 methyl 4 nitrobenzene Step 1 1.5 g 6.4 mmol in 2 propanol 30 mL was added cesium carbonate 5.3 g 16 mmol . The mixture was heated at 50 C. overnight. The mixture was concentrated and partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was concentrated and the residue was purified with silica gel column chromatography with 5 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford 1 bromo 5 isopropoxy 2 methyl 4 nitrobenzene as a yellow solid.

To a mixture of 1 bromo 5 isopropoxy 2 methyl 4 nitrobenzene Step 2 Ig 3.65 mmol pyridine 4 boronic acid 490 mg 4 mmol 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxybiphenyl 300 mg 0.73 mmol and potassium phosphate 1.55 g 7.3 mmol in mixed solvent of dioxane 15 mL and water 7.5 mL was added tris dibenzylidene acetone dipalladium 0 334 mg 0.36 mmol . This mixture was sealed and purged with nitrogen for 3 minutes and then heated at 120 C. for 5 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. After concentration the crude product was purified with silica gel flash column chromatography 60 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford 4 5 isopropoxy 2 methyl 4 nitrophenyl pyridine a as yellow solid ESMS m z 273.2 M H .

4 5 Isopropoxy 2 methyl 4 nitro phenyl pyridine Step 3 217 mg 0.797 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous THF 9 mL . Iodomethane 0.10 mL 1.61 mmol 2 equiv. was added and the reaction was stirred at 40 C. in a sealed tube for 2 days. The volatiles were removed under vacuum generating 4 5 Isopropoxy 2 methyl 4 nitro phenyl 1 methyl pyridinium iodide as a brown solid ESMS m z 287.1 M .

4 5 Isopropoxy 2 methyl 4 nitro phenyl 1 methyl pyridinium iodide Step 4 0.697 mmol was dissolved in CHOH 20 mL and cooled to 0 C. NaBH 264 mg 6.97 mmol 10 equiv. was slowly added. After this addition was complete the cooling bath was removed and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was quenched by the slow addition of 1N aqueous HCl 14 mL . The CHOH was partially removed by vacuum. The resulting residue was partitioned between EtOAc and 1 N aqueous NaOH. Additional 50 aqueous NaOH was added until the aqueous layer had a pH 12. The EtOAc layer was washed with 1 N aqueous NaOH 2 the organic layer was then dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under vacuum. After concentration the crude product 175 mg was dissolved in acetic acid 10 mL . TFA 0.15 mL 3 equiv. and PtO 53 mg 30 w w were added and the reaction was placed under 50 psi Hgas in a Parr Shaker for 14 h. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was partitioned between EtOAc and 1 N aqueous NaOH. Additional 50 aqueous NaOH was added until the aqueous layer has a pH 12. The EtOAc layer was washed with 1 N aqueous NaOH 2 the organic layer was then dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under vacuum to give 2 isopropoxy 5 methyl 4 1 methyl piperidin 4 yl phenylamine which was used in subsequent steps without further purification ESMS m z 263.2 M H .

A solution of N tert Butoxycarbonyl 4 piperidone 10.17 g 0.05 mol in THF 100 mL was added dropwise into a cooled 78 C. vigorously stirring solution of LDA 40 mL of 1.5 M solution in cyclohexanes 0.06 mol in THF 100 mL under N. The reaction mixture was left at 78 C. for 30 min before adding a solution of phenyl trifluorosulfonimide 19.85 g 0.055 mol in THF 50 mL . Then the reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 3 h. The reaction was quenched at 0 C. with 100 mL of saturated aqueous NHCl and filtered through Celite. The filtrate was added to 100 mL of EtOAc and the layers were separated. The organic layer was washed with HO dried over MgSOand concentrated. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 30 EtOAc in Hexanes as eluent and checked by TLC stained with 2 of KMnO4 in EtOH to afford 4 Trifluoromethanesulfonyloxy 3 6 dihydro 2H pyridine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester as a yellow oil.

A solution of tert butyl 4 trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate 16.0 g 48.2 mmol in DMSO 200 mL was treated with bis pinacolato diboron 12.6 g 49.6 mmol potassium acetate 14.65 g 149 mmol and Pd dppf Cl 790 mg 0.96 mmol . The solution was purged with N g for 5 minutes and then sealed and heated at 80 C. for 15 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into ice water. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL . The combined organic phase was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified with silica gel chromatography 15 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate as a white solid.

To a mixture of 5 chloro N 2 dimethyl 4 nitrobiphenyl 4 carboxamide 204 mg 1 mmol tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate 370 mg 1.2 mmol and sodium carbonate 742 mg 7 mmol in DMF HO 12 3 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 58 mg 5 mmol . The reaction tube was sealed the mixture was purged with Nfor 3 min and then heated at 90 C. under Nfor overnight. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into saturated aqueous ammonia chloride solution. The crude reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 15 mL . The organic extracts were combined washed with brine and concentrated. The crude product was purified with silica gel chromatography 20 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford tert butyl 4 4 amino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate as a yellow oil. The obtained oil was dissolved in methanol 20 mL . To the solution was added Pd C 10 . The reaction mixture was degassed and purged with Hfor several times and stirred under H 1 atm overnight. The mixture was filtered and concentrated to afford the tert butyl 4 4 amino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidine 1 carboxylate as a white solid. ESMS m z 207 M Boc H .

To a mixture of 1 bromo 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrobenzene 185 mg 1 mmol and 2 tributylstannyl pyridine 202 mg 1.1 mmol in DMF 4 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 58 mg 5 mmol . The reaction tube was sealed the mixture was purged with Nfor 3 min and then heated at 120 C. under Nfor overnight. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into saturated aqueous ammonia chloride solution. The crude reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 15 mL . The organic extracts were combined washed with brine and concentrated. The crude product was purified with silica gel column chromatography 60 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford 2 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrophenyl pyridine as a white solid. The obtained solid was dissolved in acetic acid TFA 15 mL 200 uL . To this solution was added PtO 10 w w . The reaction mixture was degassed and purged with Hfor several times and stirred under 1 atm. hydrogen gas overnight. The mixture was filtered and concentrated to afford 2 5 Dimethyl 4 piperidin 2 yl aniline as a yellow oil. ESMS m z 205 M H .

Prepared from tert butyl 3 iodoazetidine 1 carboxylate and 1 bromo 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrobenzene by following the general protocol as described in Billotte S. 1998 379.

tert Butyl 3 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrophenyl azetidine 1 carboxylate was reduced to tert butyl 3 4 amino 2 5 dimethylphenyl azetidine 1 carboxylate by standard Raney Ni hydrogenation at room temperature using MeOH as the solvent.

To a mixture of 4 bromo 5 chloro 2 methylaniline 500 mg 2.27 mmol tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate 840 mg 3.73 mmol and sodium carbonate 2.52 g 15.9 mmol in DMF HO 20 5 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 131 mg 5 mol . The reaction tube was sealed the mixture was purged with Nfor 3 min and then heated at 100 C. under Nfor overnight. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into saturated aqueous ammonia chloride solution. The crude reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 15 mL . The organic extracts were combined washed with brine and concentrated. The crude product was purified with silica chromatography 80 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford tert butyl 4 4 amino 2 chloro 5 methylphenyl 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate as a yellow solid. This obtained product 322 mg 1 mmol was dissolved in dioxane NMP anhydrous 4 mL 3 1 . To this solution was added tributyl vinyl stannane 380 mg 1.2 mmol cesium fluoride 304 mg 2 mmol and palladium bis tri tert butyl phosphine 51 mg 10 mol . This mixture was purged with Nfor 3 minutes and then heated in a sealed tube at 120 C. for overnight. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate. The resulting mixture was sequentially washed with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and brine and finally dried over sodium sulfate. After concentration the crude product was purified via silica chromatography 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford tert butyl 4 4 amino 5 methyl 2 vinylphenyl 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate as a light yellow oil 

The product obtained from the previous step was dissolved in methanol 20 mL . To this solution was added conc. aqueous HCl 200 uL and platinum oxide 23 mg 0.1 mmol . The reaction mixture was degassed and purged with Hfor several times and vigorously stirred under 1 atm. Hfor 3 h. The mixture was filtered and concentrated to afford 5 Ethyl 2 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl aniline as a yellow solid. ESMS m z 219.2 M H .

A suspension of 4 bromo 2 5 dimethylaniline 4.00 g 20 mmol pyridin 3 ylboronic acid 2.70 g 11 mmol Pd dba 0.55 g 0.6 mmol 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxybiphenyl 0.98 g 1.2 mmol and NaCO 10.6 g 100 mmol in n BuOH 50 mL was degassed by a stream of argon gas for 15 min. The reaction flask was sealed and placed in a pre heated oil bath 115 C. . After stirring overnight the reaction was cooled and filtered. The filter cake was washed with DCM and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was dissolved in EtOAc 150 mL . EtOAC was sequentially washed with water 20 mL brine 20 mL dried over NaSOand evaporated. The crude product was purified by silica chromatography 0 50 EtOAC in hexanes gradient to give 2 5 dimethyl 4 pyridin 3 yl aniline as a yellow solid ESMS m z 199.1 M H .

2 5 Dimethyl 4 pyridin 3 yl aniline 403 mg 2.03 mmol was dissolved in MeOH 5 mL and conc. aqueous HCl 1 mL followed by addition of PtO 40 mg . The flask was purged with Hand the reaction was vigorously stirred at rt under H 1 atm . After two days LCMS shows the completion of the reaction. The catalyst was removed by filtration and the remaining solution was concentrated in vacuo to give 2 5 Dimethyl 4 piperidin 3 yl aniline as a white solid which can be used in subsequent reactions without further purification ESMS m z 205.2 M H .

To a solution of 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 201 mg 1.0 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added NaH 120 mg 3.0 mmol at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 10 min. before the addition of MeI 568 mg 4.0 mmol . The mixture was then warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 2 hr. Saturated NHCl aqueous solution 20 mL was added into the mixture and the solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . The combined organic layers were concentrated and the residue was dissolved in MeOH 3 ml with NaOH 3 N 1 mL . This mixture was stirred at 80 C. for 1 hr and cooled down to room temperature. The clear solution was purified directly on preparative RP HPLC to provide 1 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino cyclopropanecarboxylic acid. ESMS m z 238.2 M Na .

Under nitrogen to the solution of R 2 bromopropanoic acid 5.0 g 32.68 mmol in 100 mL of DCM was added thionyl chloride 7.1 mL 98.04 mmol and 1 mL of DMF sequentially at 0 C. The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude product was directly used in next step without further purification.

 R 2 bromopropanoyl chloride was slowly added to a 37 ammonia hydroxide water solution cooled to 0 C. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred for 2 h. The product was extracted with EtOAc and the collected organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford R 2 bromopropanamide.

 R 2 bromopropanoyl chloride was slowly added to a methylamine water solution cooled to 0 C. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred for 2 h. The product was extracted with EtOAc and the collected organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford R 2 bromo N methylpropanamide.

Under nitrogen to the solution of 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 201.2 mg 1.0 mmol in 4 mL of DMF was added NaH 120.0 mg 3.0 mmol at 0 C. After 30 min stirring iodoethane 0.4 mL 5.0 mmol was added to the reaction. The reaction was warmed gradually to room temperature and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford crude ethyl 1 tert butoxycarbonyl ethyl amino cyclopropanecarboxylate which was used in the next step without further purification.

The crude product from Step 1 was dissolved in a mixture of EtOH 4.0 mL and water 1.0 mL . LiOH 82.0 mg 2.0 mmol was added to the reaction. The reaction was heated at 120 C. in a microwave reactor for 10 min. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and the crude product was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The water layer was neutralized with 4N aq. HCl to pH 4 and then extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford 1 tert butoxycarbonyl ethyl amino cyclopropanecarboxylic acid.

Under nitrogen to the solution of 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino cyclobutanecarboxylic acid 430.0 mg 2.0 mmol in 4 mL of DMF was added NaH 240.0 mg 6.0 mmol at 0 C. After stirring for 30 min. iodoethane 0.8 mL 10.0 mmol was added to the reaction. The reaction was warmed to room temperature gradually and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford crude ethyl 1 tert butoxycarbonyl ethyl amino cyclobutanecarboxylate.

The crude product from Step 1 was dissolved in EtOH 4.0 mL and water 1.0 mL . LiOH 164.0 mg 4.0 mmol was added to the reaction. The reaction was heated at 120 C. in a microwave reactor for 10 min. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and the crude was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The water layer was neutralized with 4N aq. HCl to pH 4 and then extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford 1 tert butoxycarbonyl ethyl amino cyclobutanecarboxylic acid.

Under nitrogen to the solution of 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino cyclobutanecarboxylic acid 430.0 mg 2.0 mmol in 4 mL of DMF was added NaH 240.0 mg 6.0 mmol at 0 C. After stirring for 30 min. iodomethane 0.62 mL 10.0 mmol was added to the reaction. The reaction was warmed to room temperature gradually and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford crude methyl 1 tert butoxycarbonyl ethyl amino cyclobutanecarboxylate.

The crude product from Step 1 was dissolved in MeOH 4.0 mL and water 1.0 mL . LiOH 164.0 mg 4.0 mmol was added to the reaction. The reaction was heated at 120 C. in a microwave reactor for 10 min. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and the crude was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The water layer was neutralized with 4N aq. HCl to pH 4 and then extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford 1 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino cyclobutanecarboxylic acid.

Under nitrogen to a solution of 2 bromobutanoic acid 2.0 g 12.0 mmol in DCM 50 mL at 0 C. were sequentially added thionyl chloride 2.6 mL 35.9 mmol and 0.5 mL of DMF. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and then cooled to 0 C. Thirty 30 mL of 37 aqueous ammonia hydroxide was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred for 2 h followed by extraction with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford 2 bromobutanamide.

Under nitrogen to a solution of 2 bromobutanoic acid 2.0 g 12.0 mmol in DCM 50 mL at 0 C. were sequentially added thionyl chloride 2.6 mL 35.9 mmol and 0.5 mL of DMF. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and then cooled to 0 C. Thirty 30 mL of 40 methylamine water solution was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred for 2 h followed by extraction with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford 2 bromo N methylbutanamide.

Under nitrogen to a solution of 2 bromobutanoic acid 2.0 g 12.0 mmol in DCM 50 mL at 0 C. were sequentially added thionyl chloride 2.6 mL 35.9 mmol and 0.5 mL of DMF. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and then cooled to 0 C. Thirty 30 mL of 40 ethylamine water solution was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred for 2 h followed by extraction with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford 2 bromo N ethylbutanamide.

To a mixture of 3 azetidinone hydrochloride 471 mg 3.28 mmol and KCO 1.50 g 11 mmol in CHCl HO 5 5 mL was added methanesulfonic anhydride 1.14 g 6.57 mmol in one portion at 0 C. After stirring for 2 h the reaction was diluted with saturated aqueous NaHCO 5 mL and extracted with DCM 3 25 mL . The combined DCM layers were washed with brine 5 mL dried over NaSOand evaporated to afford 1 Methylsulfonyl azetidin 3 one as an off white solid which was used without further purification H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.82 s 4H 3.05 s 3H .

Step 1 A mixture of 2 5 dichloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine Intermediate 1 132 mg 0.54 mmol and tert butyl 4 4 amino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidine 1 carboxylate Intermediate 19 166 mg 0.54 mmol in 2 propanol 15 mL was treated with conc. aqueous HCl 14 drops . The mixture was sealed and heated in a microwave at 130 C. for 60 min. The mixture was concentrated to afford 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a yellow solid. A portion of the crude product was purified with preparative RP HPLC to afford 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid ESMS m z 416.1 M H . The remainder of the crude product was used directly for the next step without further purification.

Step 2 To a solution of the crude product from previous step in THF 5 mL and methanol 5 mL was added formaldehyde 100 uL 1.3 mmol and 10 drops of AcOH sequentially. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then sodium cyanoborohydride 175 mg 2.78 mmol was added in one portion and the reaction was stirred for an additional 30 min. The reaction was quenched by saturated aqueous NHCl and concentrated in vacuo to give an oily residue. The residue was purified with preparative RP HPLC to afford 5 Chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 methylpiperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.33 br 1H 9.90 br 1H0 9.60 br 1H 8.22 s 1H 7.56 d 1H 7.00 d 1H 6.20 s 1H 3.53 3.50 m 2H 3.16 3.10 m 2H 2.97 2.92 m 1H 2.81 d 3H 2.26 s 3H 2.16 s 3H 1.94 1.91 m 2H 1.83 1.73 m 2H ESMS m z 430.1 M H .

A mixture of 2 5 dichloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine Intermediate 1 132 mg 0.54 mmol and tert butyl 4 4 amino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidine 1 carboxylate Intermediate 19 166 mg 0.54 mmol in 2 propanol 15 mL was treated with conc. aqueous HCl 14 drops . The mixture was sealed and heated in a microwave at 130 C. for 60 min. The mixture was concentrated to afford 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as yellow solid. A portion of the crude product was purified with preparative RP HPLC to afford 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid ESMS m z 416.1 M H .

 3 5 chloro 2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 methylpiperidin 4 yl phenylamino pyrimidin 4 ylamino azepan 2 one was synthesized by the same series of procedures as described in Example 1 utilizing Intermediate 6 and Intermediate 19. Chiral separation of the racemic mixture was conducted with normal phase HPLC using ChiralPaK AD column using the following solvent system hexanes 80 and iPrOH 20 modified with 0.1 Diethylamine. The two purified enantiomer peaks were collected separately S 3 5 chloro 2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 methylpiperidin 4 yl phenylamino pyrimidin 4 ylamino azepan 2 one and R 3 5 chloro 2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 methylpiperidin 4 yl phenylamino pyrimidin 4 ylamino azepan 2 one both peaks ESMS m z 461.2 M H . The earlier eluting peak RT 7.26 min. and the later eluting peak RT 10.17 min. were arbitrarily assigned as the S and R enantiomer respectively.

To a mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol and triethylamine 83 uL 0.6 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added 4 chloromethyl 3 5 dimethylisoxazole 35 mg 0.24 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was purified by preparative RP HPLC to afford 5 Chloro N2 4 1 3 5 dimethylisoxazol 4 yl methyl piperidin 4 yl 2 fluoro 5 methylphenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d4 8.12 s 1H 7.75 d 1H 7.03 s 1H 6.27 s 1H 4.25 s 2H 3.69 3.67 m 2H 3.27 3.20 m 3H 2.54 s 3H 2.37 s 3H 2.34 s 3H 2.30 s 3H 2.10 1.95 m 4H ESMS m z 525.1 M H .

5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous DMF 1 mL . TEA 50 uL 0.36 mmol 3 equiv. was added followed by 2 bromo ethanol 0.018 mL 0.24 mmol 2 equiv. dissolved in anhydrous DMF 0.7 mL . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated in a microwave at 100 C. for 20 min. After cooling to room temperature the reaction was concentrated and the crude product was purified using preparative RP HPLC to give 2 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl ethanol as a white solid ESMS m z 460.2 M H .

The mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol 3 bromo 1 1 1 trifluoropropane 85.0 uL 0.60 mmol and triethylamine 102.0 uL 0.60 mmol in 2 mL of DMF was stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was purified by preparative RP HPLC to afford 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine. ESMS m z 512.2 M H .

The mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 50.0 mg 0.12 mmol and 2 trifluoromethyl oxirane 67.8 mg 0.60 mmol in 2 mL of DMF was stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was purified by preparative RP HPLC to afford 3 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 1 1 1 trifluoropropan 2 ol. ESMS m z 528.2 M H .

To a mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol and triethylamine 50 uL 0.36 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added 2 bromo acetamide 33 mg 0.24 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was purified by preparative RP HPLC to give 2 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl acetamide as a white solid H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 8.11 s 1H 7.76 d 1H 7.09 d 1H 6.27 s 1H 4.0 s 2H 3.75 3.73 m 2H 3.22 3.13 m 3H 2.34 s 3H 2.30 s 3H 2.04 2.00 m 4H ESMS m z 473.2 M H .

To a mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol and triethylamine 83 uL 0.6 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added methyl vinyl sulfone 38 mg 0.36 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was purified by preparative RP HPLC to afford 5 Chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 2 methylsulfonyl ethyl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid.

To a mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol and triethylamine 50 uL 0.36 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 18 uL 0.24 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was purified by preparative RP HPLC to give 5 Chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 methylsulfonyl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid ESMS m z 494.2 M H .

To a mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol and triethylamine 50 uL 0.36 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added ethyl chloroformate 26 mg 0.24 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was purified by preparative RP HPLC to give Ethyl 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidine 1 carboxylate as a white solid H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 8.13 s 1H 7.54 d 1H 7.10 d 1H 6.28 s 1H 4.30 4.26 m 2H 4.14 q 2H 2.99 2.96 m 3H 2.33 s 3H 2.29 s 3H 1.8 1.77 m 2H 1.64 1.55 m 2H 1.28 t 3H ESMS m z 488.2 M H .

To a mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol and triethylamine 83 uL 0.6 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added dimethylcarbamic chloride 39 mg 0.36 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was purified by preparative RP HPLC to afford 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl N N dimethylpiperidine 1 carboxamide as a white solid.

To a mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol and triethylamine 50 uL 0.36 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added 2 dimethylamino acetyl chloride 38 mg 0.24 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was purified by preparative RP HPLC to give 1 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 2 dimethylamino ethanone as a white solid H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 8.08 s 1H 7.71 d 1H 7.03 d 1H 6.26 s 1H 4.71 4.67 m 2H 3.81 3.77 m 2H 3.14 3.12 m 2H 2.98 s 3H 2.96 s 3H 2.90 2.83 m 1H 2.34 s 3H 2.28 s 3H 1.87 d 2H 1.76 1.55 m 2H ESMS m z 501.2 M H .

To the solution of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 100.0 mg 0.24 mmol in 4 mL of DCM was added 2 chloroacetylchloride 23.0 uL 0.29 mmol and triethylamine 67.0 uL 0.48 mmol sequentially. The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then washed by brine. The organic extract was dried over NaSO followed by concentration in vacuo to afford a crude product. The crude product was mixed with 1 methylpiperazine 116.0 mg 1.16 mmol in 3 mL of DMF and the reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature. The reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC to afford 1 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 2 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl ethanone. ESMS m z 556.3 M H .

To a mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol di isopropylethylamine 50 uL 0.36 mmol and HATU 55 mg 0.14 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added 1 tert butoxycarbonyl azetidine 3 carboxylic acid 29 mg 0.14 mmol . After stirring at room temperature for 4 hours the mixture was diluted with methanol 1 mL and conc. aqueous HCl 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 30 min. The mixture was filtered and purified by preparative RP HPLC to give azetidin 3 yl 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl methanone as white solid. H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 8.08 s 1H 7.68 d 2H 7.04 d 2H 6.26 s 1H 4.74 4.68 m 2H 4.39 4.35 m 1H 4.29 4.24 m 2H 4.11 4.07 m 1H 3.74 3.71 m 1H 3.25 3.24 m 1H 3.07 3.04 m 1H 2.87 2.80 m 1H 2.33 s 3H 2.28 s 3H 1.87 1.84 m 2H 1.66 1.56 m 2H ESMS m z 499.2 M H .

To 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 30 mg 0.072 mml in EtOH 0.5 mL was added thiophene 2 3 dihydro 1 1 dioxide 17 mg 0.144 mmol . The resulting mixture was then heated to 130 C. for 2 hr. After cooling down to room temperature the mixture was concentrated and purified by preparative RP HPLC to provide 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 tetrahydro 1 1 dioxido 3 thienyl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine. ESMS m z 534.2 M H .

Step 1 To a solution of 5 chloro N2 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 30 mg 0.073 mmol in acetonitrile 1 mL was added CsCO 47 mg 0.15 mmol and 4 iodotetrahydro 2H thiopyran 48 mg 0.22 mmol . This mixture was then stirred at 80 C. for 16 hr. After cooling down to room temperature the mixture was treated with saturated aqueous NHCl solution 3 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 3 mL . The organic layers were combined and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 8 MeOH CHClwith NH to provide 5 chloro N2 2 5 dimethyl 4 1 tetrahydro 2H thiopyran 4 yl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid. ESMS m z 512.2 M H .

Step 2 To 5 chloro N2 2 5 dimethyl 4 1 tetrahydro 2H thiopyran 4 yl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 18 mg 0.035 mmol in CHCl 1 mL was added m CPBA 16 mg 0.71 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was then warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 30 min saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 3 mL was then added and the crude product extracted with CHCl 3 3 mL . The combined organic layers were concentrated and purified by preparative thin layer chromatography silica gel 12 MeOH CHClwith NH to provide 5 chloro N2 2 5 dimethyl 4 1 tetrahydro 1 1 dioxido 2H thiopyran 4 yl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine. ESMS m z 544.2 M H .

To 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 30 mg 0.072 mmol in MeOH 1 mL was added 3 bromothietane 1 1 dioxide 15 mg 0.079 mmol followed by TEA 15 mg . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 hr and then concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by preparative RP HPLC to provide 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 1 1 dioxido 3 thietanyl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 1 drop D2O 8.02 s 1H 7.37 s 1H 7.02 s 1H 6.23 s 1H 4.28 4.22 m 2H 4.12 4.07 m 2H 3.22 3.18 m 1H 2.95 2.92 m 2H 2.68 2.62 m 1H 2.22 s 3H 2.13 s 3H 2.07 2.01 m 2H 1.71 1.55 m 4H . ESMS m z 520.2 M H .

To a mixture of 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.10 mmol and triethylamine 83 uL 0.6 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added 2 chloro 5 ethylpyrimidine 27 mg 0.20 mmol . The mixture was heated in a microwave at 120 C. for 10 min. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was purified by preparative RP HPLC to afford 5 chloro N2 4 1 5 ethylpyrimidin 2 yl piperidin 4 yl 2 fluoro 5 methylphenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid. ESMS m z 522.2 M H .

Step 1 In a 5 mL microwave reaction tube was added 2 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrophenyl 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 143 mg 0.516 mmol prepared from 1 bromo 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrobenzene by standard protocol 1 4 methoxybenzyl 5 6 dihydropyridin 2 1H one 56 mg 0.26 mmol prepared by following a similar procedure as reported by Lerchner etc. in Chem. Eur. J. 2006 12 8208 chloro 1 5 cyclooctadiene rhodium I dimer 13 mg 0.026 mmol KOH 0.13 mL 1N aqueous solution and dioxane 1.2 mL . The tube was degassed filled with Nand sealed. The reaction tube was then heated to 100 C. in a microwave reactor for 10 min. After the reaction tube was opened the mixture was treated with saturated NHCl aqueous solution 3 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 4 mL . The organic layers were combined and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography silica gel gradient 0 70 EtOAc hexane to provide 4 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrophenyl 1 4 methoxybenzyl piperidin 2 one. ESMS m z 369.2 M H .

Step 2 To 4 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrophenyl 1 4 methoxybenzyl piperidin 2 one 63 mg 0.17 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was added 10 w w Pd C 6 mg the mixture was degassed and stirred under Hat room temperature for 14 hr. After removing the catalyst by filtration the filtrate was concentrated to provide 4 4 amino 2 5 dimethylphenyl 1 4 methoxybenzyl piperidin 2 one as a pale yellowish oil. ESMS m z 339.2 M H .

Step 3 To a mixture of 4 4 amino 2 5 dimethylphenyl 1 4 methoxybenzyl piperidin 2 one 23 mg 0.094 mmol and 2 5 dichloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine 29 mg 0.086 mmol in iPrOH 1 mL was added HCl 60 uL 4N in dioxane . The reaction vessel was then sealed and heated to 130 C. for 4 hr. After cooling to room temperature the mixture was treated with saturated NaHCOaqueous solution 3 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 4 mL . The organic layers were combined and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography silica gel gradient 0 10 MeOH CHCl to provide 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl 1 4 methoxybenzyl piperidin 2 one. ESMS m z 546.2 M H .

Step 4 A solution of 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl 1 4 methoxybenzyl piperidin 2 one 45 mg in TFA 0.5 mL was heated to 100 C. for 24 hr. After cooling down to room temperature the mixture was concentrated and purified by preparative RP HPLC to provide 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 2 one. ESMS m z 426.2 M H .

Step 1 To a microwave reaction tube was added 4 bromo 2 fluoro 5 trifluoromethyl aniline 256 mg 1.0 mmol 1 methylpiperazine 300 mg 3 mmol Pd dba 91.5 mg 0.1 mmol di tert butyl 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl 2 yl phosphine 60 mg 0.2 mmol NaOtBu 144 mg 1.5 mmol and THF 3 mL . After the reaction tube was degassed and filled with N the tube was heated to 120 C. in a microwave reactor for 40 min. The mixture was then poured into saturated NHCl aqueous solution 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . The organic layers were combined and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography silica gel gradient MeOH CHCl 0 10 to provide 2 fluoro 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl 5 trifluoromethyl aniline as a white solid. ESMS m z 278.1 M H .

Step 2 To a mixture of 2 fluoro 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl 5 trifluoromethyl aniline 37 mg 0.133 mmol and 2 5 dichloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine 36 mg 0.147 mmol in iPrOH 1 mL was added HCl 100 uL 4N in dioxane . The reaction vessel was then sealed and heated to 130 C. for 4 hr. After cooling to room temperature the mixture was treated with saturated NaHCOaqueous solution 5 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 5 mL . The organic layers were combined and concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography silica gel 8 MeOH CHCl to provide 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine. ESMS m z 485.2 M H .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 50.0 mg 0.12 mmol R 2 bromopropanamide 90.6 mg 0.60 mmol and triethylamine 102.0 L 0.60 mmol in 2 mL of DMF was heated at 150 C. in a microwave reactor for 30 min. The reaction mixture was directly purified by preparative RP HPLC to afford S 2 4 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl propanamide ESMS m z 487.2 M H .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 50.0 mg 0.12 mmol R 2 bromo N methylpropanamide 100.0 mg 0.60 mmol and triethylamine 102.0 L 0.60 mmol in 2 mL of DMF was heated at 150 C. in a microwave reactor for 30 min. The reaction mixture was directly purified by preparative RP HPLC to afford S 2 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl N methylpropanamide ESMS m z 501.2 M H .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 50.0 mg 0.12 mmol R 2 bromopropanamide 90.6 mg 0.60 mmol and triethylamine 102.0 L 0.60 mmol in 2 mL of DMF was heated at 150 C. in a microwave reactor for 30 min. The reaction mixture was directly purified by preparative RP HPLC to afford S 2 4 4 5 chloro 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl propanamide ESMS m z 483.2 M H .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 67.3 mg 0.17 mmol 1 tert butoxycarbonyl ethyl amino cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 38.0 mg 0.17 mmol HATU 63.0 mg 0.17 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 57 L 0.34 mmol in 1 mL of DMF was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and water the combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and then concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude mixture was dissolved in 5 mL of DCM and 4 mL of TFA and was then stirred for 2 h followed by concentration in vacuo. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to afford 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 1 ethylamino cyclopropyl methanone ESMS m z 527.2 M H .

To a solution of 2 amino 1 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 2 methylpropan 1 one 6 mg 0.012 mmol in acetone 0.5 mL was added KCO 11 mg 0.079 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 min. before the addition of EtI 6 mg 0.038 mmol . The resulting mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 14 h before it was treated with saturated aqueous NHCl 1 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 2 mL . The organic layers were combined concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography silica gel 8 MeOH DCM NH followed by further purification with preparative RP HPLC to provide 1 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 2 ethylamino 2 methylpropan 1 one ESMS m z 525.3 M H .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 50.0 mg 0.12 mmol 1 tert butoxycarbonyl ethyl amino cyclobutanecarboxylic acid 29.2 mg 0.12 mmol HATU 45.8 mg 0.12 mmol and di isopropylethylamine 20 L 0.12 mmol in 1 mL of DMF was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude mixture was dissolved in 5 mL of DCM and 4 mL of TFA and was then stirred for 2 h followed by concentration in vacuo. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to afford 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 1 ethylamino cyclobutyl methanone ESMS m z 541.3 M H .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 50.0 mg 0.12 mmol 1 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino cyclobutanecarboxylic acid 27.5 0.12 mmol HATU 45.8 mg 0.12 mmol and di isopropylethylamine 20 L 0.12 mmol in 1 mL of DMF was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude mixture was dissolved in 5 mL of DCM and 4 mL of TFA and was stirred for 2 h followed by concentration in vacuo. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to afford 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 1 methylamino cyclobutyl methanone ESMS m z 527.2 M H .

To a solution of N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl 5 methyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine hydrochloride 36.0 mg 0.084 mmol in DMF 0.5 mL were added TEA 23.4 L 0.168 mmol and S 2 trifluoromethyl oxirane 72.8 L 0.84 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and purified by preparative RP HPLC to provide S 3 4 2 5 dimethyl 4 5 methyl 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino phenyl piperidin 1 yl 1 1 1 trifluoropropan 2 ol ESMS m z 504.3 M H .

To a mixture of 5 Chloro N2 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 2 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.12 mmol and triethylamine 83 uL 0.6 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added 2 bromoacetamide 35 mg 0.24 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was purified by RP HPLC to afford 2 2 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl acetamide as a white solid H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d4 8.09 s 1H 7.65 d 1H 7.43 s 1H 6.41 s 1H 4.79 4.74 m 2H 3.83 3.48 m 2H 2.71 s 3H 2.42 s 3H 2.34 s 6H 2.15 1.84 m 7H ESMS m z 469.2 M H .

Step 1 To a mixture of 1 bromo 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrobenzene 185 mg 1 mmol and 2 tributylstannyl pyridine 202 mg 1.1 mmol in DMF 4 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 58 mg 0.05 mmol . The reaction tube was sealed the mixture was purged with Nfor 3 min and then heated at 120 C. under Nfor overnight. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into saturated aqueous ammonia chloride solution. The crude reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 15 mL . The organic extracts were combined washed with brine and concentrated. The crude product was purified with silica chromatography 60 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford 2 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrophenyl pyridine as a white solid. The obtained solid was dissolved in acetic acid TFA 15 mL 200 uL . To this solution was added PtO 10 w w . The reaction mixture was degassed and purged with Hfor several times and then vigorously stirred under 1 atm. Hovernight. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated to afford 2 5 Dimethyl 4 piperidin 2 yl aniline as a yellow oil ESMS m z 205 M H .

Step 2 A mixture of 2 5 dichloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine 120 mg 0.49 mmol and 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 2 yl aniline 100 mg 0.49 mmol in 2 propanol 10 mL was treated with conc. aqueous HCl 7 drops . The mixture was sealed and heated in a microwave at 130 C. for 45 min. The mixture was concentrated to afford 5 Chloro N2 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 2 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine ESMS m z 412.1 M H . The crude product was used directly for the next step without further purification.

Step 3 To a solution of the crude product from the previous step in THF 1 mL and methanol 1 mL was sequentially added formaldehyde 100 uL 1.3 mmol and 5 drops of AcOH. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then sodium cyanoborohydride 160 mg 2.45 mmol was added in one portion and the reaction was stirred for an additional 30 min. The reaction was quenched by saturated aqueous NHCl and concentrated in vacuo to give an oily residue. The residue was purified with RP HPLC to afford 5 Chloro N2 2 5 dimethyl 4 1 methylpiperidin 2 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid ESMS m z 426.2 M H .

Step 4 Chiral separation of the racemic mixture was conducted with normal phase HPLC using ChiralPaK AD H column using the following solvent system hexanes 95 EtOH 2.5 MeOH 2.5 . The two purified enantiomer peaks were collected separately R 5 Chloro N2 2 5 dimethyl 4 1 methylpiperidin 2 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine and S 5 Chloro N2 2 5 dimethyl 4 1 methylpiperidin 2 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine both peaks ESMS m z 426.2 M H . The earlier eluting peak has been arbitrarily assigned as the R enantiomer.

Step 1 To a solution of 5 chloro N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 78 mg 0.19 mmol and TEA 0.52 mL 3.78 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added 3 chloropropane 1 sulfonyl chloride 63 mg 0.36 mmol in 1 mL DCM . After stirring at rt for one hour EtOAc 100 mL was added. The mixture was sequentially washed with water 10 mL brine 10 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica chromatography 0 100 EtOAc in hexanes gradient to give 5 chloro N2 4 1 3 chloropropylsulfonyl piperidin 4 yl 2 5 dimethylphenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as an off white solid ESMS m z 552.2 M H .

Step 2 The product from Step 1 was stirred in neat morpholine 0.5 mL at 100 C. in a sealed vial for one hour. The reaction was purified by RP HPLC to give 5 Chloro N2 2 5 dimethyl 4 1 3 morpholinopropylsulfonyl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white powder ESMS m z 603.2 M H .

To a solution of 5 chloro N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 30 mg 0.078 mmol in acetonitrile 1.0 mL was added 1 cyanocyclopropyl methyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 16 mg 0.10 mmol prepared according to the procedure described in patent WO2005063247 followed by DIEA 30 mg 0.23 mmol and KI catalytic amount . The resulting mixture was heated to 70 C. for 14 h and then cooled down to room temperature. The resulting mixture was directly purified by preparative RP HPLC to provide 1 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl methyl cyclopropanecarbonitrile ESMS m z 491.2 M H .

To a solution of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 20 mg 0.048 mmol in acetonitrile 0.5 mL was added CsCO 31 mg 0.096 mmol and chloroacetonitrile 7 mg 0.096 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 h before it was treated with saturated aqueous NHCl 1 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 2 mL . The organic layers were combined concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative RP HPLC to provide 2 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl acetonitrile ESMS m z 455.2 M H .

To a solution of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 20 mg 0.048 mmol in MeOH 0.5 mL was added acrylonitrile 5 mg 0.096 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 h and then purified directly by preparative RP HPLC to provide 3 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl propanenitrile ESMS m z 469.2 M H .

A solution of 5 chloro N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 3 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 700 mg 1.70 mmol 2 bromo N methylacetamide 258 mg 1.70 mmol and TEA 1.2 mL 8.5 mmol in DMF 4 mL was stirred at rt for 30 min. The reaction was purified by RP HPLC to give the product as a racemate ESMS m z 483.2 M 1 . Chiral separation of the racemic mixture was conducted with chiral HPLC ChiralCel OD H Hex EtOH MeOH 80 10 10 15 min run time 1 mL min . The two purified enantiomer peaks were collected separately both as white solids R 2 3 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl N methylacetamide and S 2 3 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl N methylacetamide both peaks ESMS m z 483.2 M H . The earlier eluting peak rt 5.63 min. vs. rt 7.62 min. was arbitrarily assigned as the R enantiomer.

To a suspension of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 2.50 g 6.0 mmol in a mixed solvent of MeOH 42 mL and DCM 10 mL was added dihydro 2H pyran 4 3H one 3.33 mL 36.0 mmol and TEA 8.36 mL 60.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. for 1 h before NaCNBH 1.66 g 26.4 mmol was added. The mixture was heated at 60 C. for another 2 h cooled down to room temperature diluted with DCM 60 mL dry loaded onto silica gel 12.5 g and purified by silica gel chromatography DCM with 1 NHto 10 MeOH in DCM with 1 NHgradient to provide 5 chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 12.08 br 1H 9.58 br 1H 8.65 d J 28.4 Hz 1H 8.02 s 1H 7.36 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.03 d J 12.4 Hz 1H 6.08 br 1H 3.89 dd J 10.8 3.6 Hz 2H 3.28 t J 10.4 Hz 2H 2.99 d J 10.8 Hz 2H 2.64 2.43 m 2H 2.24 2.15 m 8H 1.71 1.40 m 8H ESMS m z 500.2 M H .

To a solution of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 30 mg 0.072 mmol in MeOH 0.7 mL was added AcOH 35 mg 0.58 mmol 1 ethoxycyclopropoxy trimethylsilane 37 mg 0.216 mmol and a small amount of 4 molecular sieves. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h before the addition of Na CN BH 14 mg 0.216 mmol . The resulting mixture was then stirred at 60 C. for 14 h and cooled to room temperature. Saturated aqueous NHCl 2 mL was added and the mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 3 mL . The combined organic layers were concentrated and purified by preparative RP HPLC to provide 5 chloro N 4 1 cyclopropylpiperidin 4 yl 2 fluoro 5 methylphenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d4 7.97 s 1H 7.84 d 1H 7.50 s 1H 6.93 d 1H 6.29 s 1H 5.33 s 1H 2.80 m 1H 2.58 s 2H 2.28 s 3H 2.24 s 3H 1.96 m 1H 1.80 1.85 m 2H 1.65 1.75 m 2H 0.2 0.7 m 6H ESMS m z 456.2 M H .

Step 1 To a solution of azetidine 12 mg 0.21 mmol and TEA 0.1 mL 0.71 mmol in DCM 5 mL was slowly added a solution of 3 chloropropane 1 sulfonyl chloride 34 mg 0.19 mmol in DCM 1 mL . After stirring at rt overnight the solvent was removed in vacuo. The resulting 1 3 chloropropylsulfonyl azetidine crude product was dissolved in NMP 1.9 mL 0.1 mmol mL and used in the next step without further purification ESMS m z 198.0 M H .

Step 2 A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 42 mg 0.1 mmol 1 3 chloropropylsulfonyl azetidine Step 1 0.1 mmol TEA 70 L and sodium iodide 150 mg in NMP 1 mL was placed in a sealed vial which was heated in a microwave for 30 min at 150 C. The reaction was purified by RP HPLC to give N2 4 1 3 azetidin 1 ylsulfonyl propyl piperidin 4 yl 2 5 dimethylphenyl 5 chloro N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white powder ESMS m z 573.3 M H .

Step 1 To a solution of HATU 95 mg 0.255 mmol and 4 chlorobutanoic acid 36 mg 0.25 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added DIEA 0.1 mL . After stirring at rt for 3 min 5 chloro N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 100 mg 0.24 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added. The reaction was stirred at rt for 90 min. at which point LCMS indicates the reaction was complete and that 4 chloro 1 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl butan 1 one has been generated ESMS m z 516.1 M H .

Step 2 Morpholine 0.5 mL was added directly to the crude reaction mixture from Step 1 1 mL . The resulting solution was stirred at 100 C. in a sealed vial for 1.5 h. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to give 1 4 4 5 Chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 4 morpholinobutan 1 one as a white powder ESMS m z 567.3 M H .

Step 1 A solution of HATU 108 mg 0.28 mmol 3 chloropropanoic acid 30 mg 0.28 mmol and DIEA 0.1 mL in DMF 1 mL was stirred at rt. After 3 min this solution was transferred to a solution of 5 chloro N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine solution 111 mg 0.27 mmol in DMF 10 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at rt overnight. The reaction was quenched with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined EtOAc layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica chromatography 0 10 MeOH in DCM gradient with 1 NHadditive to give 1 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl prop 2 en 1 one as a light brown oil ESMS m z 466.1 M H .

Step 2 A solution of 1 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl prop 2 en 1 one 41 mg 0.88 mmol and morpholine 0.1 mL in DMF 1 mL was stirred at rt overnight. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to give 1 4 4 5 Chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 3 morpholinopropan 1 one as a white powder ESMS m z 553.2 M H .

Step 1 To a microwave reaction vessel was added a mixture of 1 bromo 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrobenzene 1.15 g 5.0 mmol dibutyl vinylboronate 1.16 g 6.3 mmol Pd PPh 289 mg 0.25 mmol CsF 2.28 g 15 mmol and a mixed solvent 1 2 dimethoxyethane MeOH 2 1 15 mL . The mixture was degassed and sealed with N. The reaction vessel was then heated to 130 C. in a microwave reactor for 15 min. After opening the reaction vessel the mixture was poured into saturated NHCl aqueous solution 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine and dried MgSO . After removing the drying agent by filtration the filtrate was concentrated and purified by flash column chromatography silica gel 0 30 EtOAc in hexanes gradient to provide 1 4 dimethyl 2 nitro 5 vinylbenzene as needlelike crystals ESMS m z 178.1 M H .

Step 2 1 4 dimethyl 2 nitro 5 vinylbenzene was reacted via the asymmetric synthetic method reported by N. Barta et al. 2000 2 2821 followed by purification with preparative RP HPLC to provide S 4 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrophenyl oxazolidin 2 one ESMS m z 237.1 M H .

Step 3 To a solution of S 4 2 5 dimethyl 4 nitrophenyl oxazolidin 2 one 55 mg 0.23 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was added Pd C 5 mg 10 w w . The mixture was degassed and stirred at room temperature under 1 atm. Hfor 14 h. The Pd C was removed by filtering through Celite. The filtrate was concentrated to provide S 4 4 amino 2 5 dimethylphenyl oxazolidin 2 one which was used in the next step without further purification ESMS m z 207.1 M H .

Step 4 To a reaction tube was added S 4 4 amino 2 5 dimethylphenyl oxazolidin 2 one 48 mg 0.23 mmol 2 5 dichloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine 77 mg 0.32 mmol PrOH 2 mL and HCl 0.13 mL 0.52 mmol 4N in dioxane . The tube was then sealed and heated at 130 C. for 6 h. After cooling down to room temperature the mixture was concentrated and purified by preparative RP HPLC to provide S 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethyl phenyl oxazolidin 2 one ESMS m z 414.1 M H .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 400 mg 0.96 mmol iodoethane 92.5 L 1.2 mmol and triethylamine 201.5 L 1.4 mmol in 4 mL of DMF was heated at 60 C. for 2 h. The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography MeOH DCM 1 9 to afford 5 chloro N 4 1 ethylpiperidin 4 yl 2 fluoro 5 methylphenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine HNMR DMSO d 8.01 s 1H 7.35 m 1H 7.02 d 1H 6.22 s 1H 2.97 d 2H 2.62 m 1H 2.34 q 2H 2.21 s 3H 2.13 s 3H 1.98 t 2H 1.64 m 4H 1.01 t 3H ESMS m z 444.2 M H .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 40 mg 0.096 mmol 2 bromomethyl 1 1 difluorocyclopropane 32.8 mg 0.19 mmol and triethylamine 20.2 L 0.14 mmol in 1 mL of DMF was heated at 150 C. in a microwave reactor for 30 min. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to afford 5 chloro N 4 1 2 2 difluorocyclopropyl methyl piperidin 4 yl 2 fluoro 5 methylphenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine ESMS m z 506.2 M H .

A solution of 5 chloro N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 41 mg 0.1 mmol acrylamide 24 mg 0.33 mmol and DIEA 87 L 0.5 mmol in NMP 1 mL was stirred at 80 C. for 10 h. LCMS at this point shows the reaction was not complete so additional acrylamide 2 36 mg was added and the reaction continued until LCMS shows the reaction was complete. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to give 3 4 4 5 Chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidin 1 yl propanamide as a white powder ESMS m z 483.2 M 1 .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 41 mg 0.1 mmol 4 chloro 1 morpholinobutan 1 one 29 mg 0.15 mmol and DIEA 0.1 mL 0.58 mmol in NMP 1 mL was stirred at 80 C. After 10 h additional 4 chloro 1 morpholinobutan 1 one 51 mg was added and the reaction continued overnight. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to give 4 4 4 5 Chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 1 morpholinobutan 1 one as a white powder ESMS m z 571.3.3 M H .

N 4 1 2 2 difluorocyclopropyl methyl piperidin 4 yl 2 fluoro 5 methylphenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 5 trifluoromethyl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 251 

A mixture of N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 5 trifluoromethyl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 100 mg 0.22 mmol 2 bromomethyl 1 1 difluorocyclopropane 76.4 mg 0.45 mmol and triethylamine 60.6 L 0.42 mmol in 1 mL of DMF was heated at 60 C. in a microwave reactor for 2 h. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to afford N 4 1 2 2 difluorocyclopropyl methyl piperidin 4 yl 2 fluoro 5 methylphenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 5 trifluoromethyl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine ESMS m z 540.2 M H .

A mixture of 2 chloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 5 trifluoromethyl pyrimidin 4 amine 513.0 mg 0.9 mmol tert butyl 4 4 amino 2 5 dimethylphenyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 282.7 mg 0.9 mmol and concentrated aqueous HCl 10 drops in i PrOH 12 mL was heated at 150 C. in a microwave reactor for 30 min. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to afford N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 5 trifluoromethyl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine ESMS m z 446.2 M H .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 42 mg 0.1 mmol 5 chloromethyl 3 isopropyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 17 mg 0.10 mmol and DIEA 86 L 0.5 mmol in DMF 1 mL was stirred at rt overnight. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and washed with water 2 5 mL . The EtOAc layer was dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica chromatography 50 100 EtOAc in hexanes gradient to give 5 Chloro N2 2 fluoro 4 1 3 isopropyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl methyl piperidin 4 yl 5 methylphenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid ESMS m z 540.2 M H .

Step 1 A solution of isobutyronitrile 4.49 mL 50 mmol and hydroxylamine 12.3 mL 200 mmol in anhydrous ethanol 20 mL was stirred at 60 C. for two days. The solvent was evaporated. The residue was coevaporated repeatedly with toluene to give E N hydroxyisobutyrimidamide as a light yellow liquid H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.50 br s 1H 4.52 br s 2H 2.43 septet J 6.8 Hz 1H 1.15 d J 6.8 Hz 6H .

Step 2 A solution of E N hydroxyisobutyrimidamide 0.51 g 5 mmol and trichloroacetic anhydride 2.31 g 7.5 mmol in toluene 20 mL was stirred at 80 C. After 4 h the reaction was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 2 10 mL dried over NaSOand evaporated to give 3 Isopropyl 5 trichloromethyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole as a clear liquid which was used without further purification H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.16 septet J 7.2 Hz 1H 1.39 d J 6.8 Hz 6H .

Step 3 A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 42 mg 0.1 mmol 3 isopropyl 5 trichloromethyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 46 mg 0.2 mmol and DIEA 40 L 0.23 mmol in MeOH 1 mL was stirred at 70 C. overnight. The crude reaction mixture was purified by RP HPLC to give 4 4 5 Chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl 3 isopropyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl methanone as a white solid H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.67 br s 2H 8.50 s 1H 8.07 s 1H 7.57 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.05 d J 12.4 Hz 1H 6.16 s 1H 5.53 s 1H 3.98 d J 13.2 Hz 1H 3.34 dt J 2.0 2.8 Hz 1H 3.15 m 1H 2.82 m 2H 2.62 t J 4.8 Hz 2H 2.34 s 3H 2.25 9s 3H 1.90 m 2H 1.76 2H ESMS m z 554.2 M H .

Step 1 A mixture of E N hydroxyisobutyrimidamide 510 mg 5 mmol 3 chloropropanoic acid 542 mg 5 mmol and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1.24 g 6 mmol in anhydrous dioxane 20 mL was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h and then at room temperature for an additional 1 h. The reaction was then heated at 80 C. for an additional 18 h. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated. The resulting residue was purified by silica chromatography 0 100 EtOAc in hexanes gradient to give 5 2 chloroethyl 3 isopropyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.85 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.27 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.03 septet J 7.2 Hz 1H 1.13 d J 7.2 Hz 6H ESMS m z 175.1 M H .

Step 2 A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 5 dimethyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 14 mg 0.033 mmol 5 2 chloroethyl 3 isopropyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 9 mg 0.053 mmol and DIEA 29 uL 0.17 mmol in NMP 1 mL was stirred at 50 C. for 3 days. The crude reaction mixture was purified by RP HPLC to give 5 Chloro N2 4 1 2 3 isopropyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl ethyl piperidin 4 yl 2 5 dimethylphenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid ESMS m z 550.3 M H .

A suspension of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 20 mg 0.05 mmol 3 chloro 6 methylpyridazine 13 mg 0.1 mmol and CsCO 33 mg 0.1 mmol in dioxane 1 mL was stirred at 150 C. in a sealed vial. After 15 h additional 3 chloro 6 methylpyridazine 26 mg and CsCO 66 mg were added. The reaction was continued for an additional 3 h. The crude reaction mixture was purified by RP HPLC to give 5 Chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 6 methylpyridazin 3 yl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid 

Step 1 A solution of tert butyl 2 methyl 4 oxopiperidine 1 carboxylate 1 g 4.69 mmol in THF 20 mL was added dropwise into a cooled 78 C. vigorously stirring solution of LDA 3.75 mL of 1.5 M solution in cyclohexanes 5.63 mmol in THF 20 mL under N. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min before adding a solution of phenyl trifluorosulfonimide 1.84 g 5.16 mmol in THF 20 mL . Following this addition the reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 3 h. The reaction was cooled to 0 C. and quenched with 100 mL of saturated aqueous NHCl followed by filtration through Celite. The filtrate was added to 100 mL of EtOAc and the layers were separated. The organic layer was washed with water dried over MgSOand concentrated. The crude product was purified by silica chromatography 0 30 EtOAc in hexanes gradient and checked by TLC stained with 2 of KMnOin EtOH to afford tert butyl 2 methyl 4 trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate as a yellow solid.

Step 2 To a mixture of 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl aniline 587 mg 2.33 mmol tert butyl 2 methyl 4 trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate 968 mg 2.80 mmol and sodium carbonate 1.73 g 16.35 mmol in DMF HO 20 5 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 135 mg 5 mmol . The reaction tube was sealed the mixture was purged with Nfor 3 min and then heated at 100 C. under Nfor 8 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into saturated aqueous ammonia chloride solution. The crude reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 15 mL . The organic extracts were combined washed with brine and concentrated. The crude product was purified with silica chromatography 50 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford tert butyl 4 4 amino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl 6 methyl 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate as a yellow oil. The obtained oil was dissolved in methanol 20 mL . To the solution was added Pd C 10 . The reaction mixture was degassed and purged with Hfor several times and stirred vigorously under 1 atm. Hovernight. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated to afford tert butyl 4 4 amino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl 2 methylpiperidine 1 carboxylate as a white solid. ESMS m z 267 M 56 H .

Step 3 A mixture of 2 5 dichloro N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidin 4 amine 346 mg 1.42 mmol and tert butyl 4 4 amino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl 2 methylpiperidine 1 carboxylate 352 mg 1.09 mmol in 2 propanol 10 mL was treated with cone. HCl 12N 0.43 mL . The mixture was sealed and heated in a microwave at 130 C. for 45 min. The mixture was concentrated. The residue was purified by RP HPLC to afford 5 Chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 2 methylpiperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as a white solid. ESMS m z 430.1 M H .

Step 4 5 Chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 2 methylpiperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 20 mg 0.046 mmol was dissolved in a solvent mixture of DCM and methanol 0.5 mL 10 1 v v 0.175N NH . The mixture was applied to preparative TLC in order to separate the cis and trans stereoisomers eluent 6 MeOH in DCM with 0.1N NH of 5 Chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 2 methylpiperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as white solids. The trans isomer was the preparative TLC top band and the cis isomer was the preparative TLC bottom band ESMS m z 430.1 M H cis stereoisomer H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d4 8.03 s 1H 7.84 d 1H 7.02 d 1H 6.24 d 1H 3.90 3.85 m 1H 2.32 s 3H 2.27 s 3H 2.03 1.84 m 2H 1.65 1.54 m 1H 1.55 d 3H 1.38 1.19 m 4H .

A mixture of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 43 mg 0.1 mmol cyclopentane 1 3 dione 89 mg 9.1 mmol sodium cyanoborohydride 19 mg 0.3 mmol and DIEA 0.2 mL 11 mmol in MeOH 1 mL was stirred in a sealed vial at 60 C. After 2.5 h additional sodium cyanoborohydride 19 mg 0.3 mmol was added and the reaction continued to stir at 60 C. overnight. The mixture was purified by RP HPLC to give 3 4 4 5 Chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl piperidin 1 yl cyclopent 2 en one as an off white solid H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.97 br s 1H 9.83 br s 1H 8.90 s 1H 8.32 d J 6.8 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 12.8 Hz 1H 6.97 s 1H 6.04 s 1H 5.30 br s 1H 4.71 d J 12.0 Hz 2H 4.04 t J 12.4 Hz 2H 3.84 m 1H 3.53 m 2H 3.13 m 2H 3.08 s 3H 2.96 s 3H 2.59 2.40 m 4H ESMS m z 496.2 M H .

To a solution of 5 chloro N 4 1 ethylpiperidin 4 yl 2 fluoro 5 methylphenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 22.2 mg 0.05 mmol in DCM 10 mL and MeOH 1 mL was added MCPBA 11.2 mg 0.07 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was partitioned between DCM and saturated aqueous NaHCO the combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC to afford 4 4 5 chloro 4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 ylamino pyrimidin 2 ylamino 5 fluoro 2 methylphenyl 1 ethylpiperidine 1 oxide 

To a solution of 5 chloro N 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl phenyl N 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 45 mg 0.1 mmol and pyrimidine 5 carbaldehyde 32 mg 0.3 mmol in DCM 1.5 mL was added NaBH OAc 64 mg 0.3 mmol followed by addition of AcOH 12 uL . After stirring at room temperature in a sealed vial for 16 h the reaction was quenched with EtOAc 50 mL . The reaction mixture was sequentially washed with water 10 mL brine 5 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by silica chromatography 0 10 MeOH in EtOAc gradient with 1 NHin MeOH additive to give 5 Chloro N2 2 fluoro 5 methyl 4 1 pyrimidin 5 ylmethyl piperidin 4 yl phenyl N4 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine as an off white solid H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 9.09 s 1H 8.81 s 2H 8.00 s 1H 7.73 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.99 d J 13.2 Hz 1H 6.23 br s 1H 3.65 s 2H 3.03 m 2H 2.76 m 1H 2.27 s 3H 2.25 s 3H 2.25 m 2H 1.80 1.68 m 4H ESMS m z 508.2 M H .

The following compounds in Table 1 are obtained by repeating the procedures described in examples above and using appropriate starting materials.

The ICof a drug may be determined constructing a dose response curve and examining the effect of different concentrations of antagonist on reversing agonist activity. ICvalues may be calculated for a given antagonist by determining the concentration needed to inhibit half of the maximum biological response of the agonist. To calculate ICvalues a series of dose response data e.g. drug concentrations x1 x2 . . . xn and growth inhibition y1 y2 . . . yn the values of y are in the range of 0 1 is generated. ICvalues may be determined by a computer aided system using the formula 1 10 

The ICvalue is given as that concentration of the test compound that results in growth inhibition that is 50 lower than that obtained using the control without inhibitor. The compounds of the invention in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form may exhibit valuable pharmacological properties for example as indicated by the in vitro tests described in this application. In general compounds of the invention have ICvalues from 1 nM to 10 M. In some examples compounds of the invention have ICvalues from 0.01 M to 5 M. In other examples compounds of the invention have ICvalues from 0.01 M to 1 M or more particularly from 1 nM to 1 M. In yet other examples compounds of the invention have ICvalues of less than 1 nM or more than 10 M. The compounds of the invention may exhibit a percentage inhibition of greater than 50 or in other embodiments may exhibit a percentage inhibition greater than about 70 against IGF 1R at 10 M.

Ba F3 is a murine IL 3 dependent pro B lymphoma cell line. Parental Ba F3 cells are used to generate a panel of sublines whose proliferation and survival is rendered IL 3 independent by stable transduction with individual tyrosine kinases activated by fusion with the amino terminal portion of TEL amino acid 1 375 or BCR. In order to generate Ba F3 cell lines transformed by Tel Tyrosine Kinase TK fusions parental Ba F3 cells are infected with a retrovirus harboring each TEL fusion kinase and subjected to puromycin selection and IL 3 withdrawal to obtain IL 3 independent transformed Ba F3 cells.

Each transformed Ba F3 cells are cultured in RPMI 1640 media Gibco Cat 11875093 Carlsbad Calif. supplemented with 10 FBS Hyclone Cat SV30014.03 Logan Utah 4.5 g L glucose Sigma G5400 St. Louis Mo. 1.5 g L sodium bicarbonate Biowhittaker 17 613E Walkersville Md. and Pen Strep Gibco 10378 016 Carlsbad Calif. . Cells are splitted twice weekly.

The potency of test compounds against various Tel TK transformed Ba F3 lines is determined as follows. Exponentially growing BaF3 Tel TK cells are diluted in fresh medium to 75 000 cells mL and seeded into 384 well plates 3750 cells well at 50 L well using a Fill liquid dispenser BioTek Winooski Vt. USA . Duplicate plates are run for each cell line. Test and control compounds are serially diluted with DMSO and arrayed in a polypropylene 384 well plate. 50 mL of compound is transferred into the assay plates using a pin transfer device and the plates are incubated at 37 C. 5 CO for 48 hours. 25 L Britelite Perkin Elmer is added and luminescence is quantified using Analyst GT Molecular Devices . Custom curve fitting software is used to produce a logistic fit of percent cell viability as a function of the logarithm of inhibitor concentration. The ICis interpolated as the concentration of compound needed to reduce cell viability to 50 of a DMSO control. Parental Ba F3 cells that are maintained and cultured in presence of IL 3 1 ng ml in final are diluted in fresh medium containing IL 3 1 ng ml in final to 75 000 cells mL following the same procedure as described above.

IGF 1R and INSR insulin receptor are purchased from Upstate. Following reagents are prepared in house 10 kinase buffer KB 200 mM Tris pH 7.0 100 mM MgCl 30 mM MnCl 50 nM NaVO 10 mM ATP 100 mg ml BSA 0.5 M EDTA 4 M KF. Proxiplate 384 from Perkin Elmer is used for set up assay. All the HTRF reagents including substrate Biotin poly GT 61GT0BLB Mab PT66 K 61T66KLB Streptavidin XL 611SAXLB are purchased from CIS US Inc.

The substrate ATP mix is prepared by adding ATP final concentration 3 M and biotinylated poly GT final concentration 10 ng l into 1 KB and dispensed into Proxiplate 384 at 5 l well using Fill Bio TEK . Serially diluted compounds in DMSO are transferred into plate using 50 mL pinhead. 5 L of prepared Enzyme mix enzyme final concentration 5 ng l mixed with BSA and DTT in 1 KB is added to initiate kinase reaction using Fill Bio TEK . Assay plate is incubated at room temperature for 2 hours. Detection mix is prepared by adding both Mab PT66 K and Streptavidin XLinto 0.5 KB solution containing KF final concentration 125 mM EDTA final concentration 50 mM and BSA final concentration 100 g ml in. At the end of reaction 10 L of detection mix is added and incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature before measurement. HTRF signal is detected using Analyst GT molecular Devices .

For luciferizing cancer cell line each cell line is transduced by ampholytic retrovirus carrying both luciferase gene and puromycin resistant gene whose expression is driven by LTR. Briefly the retroviral vector pMSCV Puro Luc is transfected into Phoenix cell line using Fugene6 Roche according to manufacturer s instruction. Two days after transfection supernatant containing virus is harvested and filtered with 0.2 m filter. Harvested virus is used immediately or stored at 80 C. For infection cultured cancer cells are harvested and plated 5 10cells well in 1 ml medium on 6 well tissue culture plate. For each well 3 ml virus supernatant is added together with 400 l FBS 40 l 1 M HEPES pH8.0 and 4 l of polybrene 10 g ml Specialty media . The plate is centrifuged down for 90 minutes at 2500 rpm for spin infection and is transferred into an incubator for overnight infection. Next day infected cell line is transferred into T 75 flask containing fresh medium and incubated for one day. Two days after infection puromycin is added at the final concentration of 1 g ml to begin selection. Within 1 2 weeks puromycin resistant cell line is established after at least two subsequent splits and is preserved as luciferized stock.

Each cell line is harvested while in log phase growth by trypsinization and diluted in respective media to appropriate density prior to plating. Cells are dispensed using Fill BioTeK at 50 l well into white walled clear bottom plates Greiner custom for GNF . Cells are then placed in 37 C. incubator supplying 5 CO2 overnight. Compounds are transferred using 50 mL well Pintool technology via Platemate Matrix . Assay plates are then placed back into the incubator for 3 days. On the third day following compound transfer BRITELITE Perkin Elmer diluted according to manufacturer s suggestion is added to assay plates and read on Analyst GT Molecular Devices or Envision Perkin Elmer . Raw data is generated in RLU.

Three to 4 10human neuroblastoma SK N MC cells resuspended in HBSS and mixed in 50 matrigel were injected subcutaneously 0.05 ml mouse into female nude HsdNpa athymic nu mice 10 12 weeks of age. Treatments were initiated when the mean tumor volumes were approximately 150 200 mm. Body weights and tumor volumes were recorded three times a week. Tumor volumes were measured with calipers and determined according to the formula length diameter 6. In addition to presenting fractional changes of tumor volumes over the course of treatments antitumor activity is expressed as T C mean change of tumor volume of treated animals mean change of tumor volume of control animals 100. Efficacy of test compounds was determined by initiating oral dosing on day 19 post cell injection following randomization of the mice so that each group has similar mean tumor size. Dosing with an appropriate schedule continued for 7 days based on the general health condition of the animals. All test compounds were formulated in NMP PEG300 10 90 and applied daily by gavage. Vehicle consisted of NMP PEG300 10 90 . All application volumes were 5 ml kg. The activity of exemplary compounds of the invention on tumor growth is shown in Tables 2 4.

It is understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application and scope of the appended claims. All publications patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

