---

title: Salicylic acid derivatives, pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, composition thereof and method of use thereof
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09650399&OS=09650399&RS=09650399
owner: Indiana University Research and Technology Corporation
number: 09650399
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130524
---
This application is a National Stage Entry of PCT Patent Application No. PCT US13 42689 filed on May 24 2013 which claims priority of U.S. provisional application Ser. 61 651 757 filed May 25 2012 the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under CA167291 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to novel salicylic acid derivative compound compositions containing same and methods inhibiting STAT3 activity or for treating cancer where STAT3 5 are involved such as in brain breast colon hematologic lung ovarian and prostate cancers using said compounds.

STAT3 is persistently activated in over a dozen types of human cancers including all the major carcinomas including breast brain colon pancreas ovarian and squamous cell carcinomas of head and neck SCCHN cancers and melanomas as well as some hematologic tumors Bowman T et al 2000 Oncogene 19 2474 88 and Darnell J. E. 2005 Nat. Med. 1 1 595 596 . As such there is increasing interest in developing anticancer therapies through the inhibition of persistently active STAT3 especially as a strategy to deal with cancers where physicians are looking to improve the outcome and or where even establishing a satisfactory standard of care has been challenging in terms of patient care quality of life and outcome.

Glioblastoma GBM is considered the most aggressive and lethal of brain cancers with a median survival after treatment of approximately 15 months. Shockingly these modest results can only be achieved in the relatively young i.e. 

Brain tumours have been demonstrated to contain rare subpopulations of brain tumour stem cells BTSCs which possess the cardinal stem cell properties of clonogenic self renewal multipotency and tumourigenicity. The extensive self renewal and proliferative capacity of BTSCs coupled with their insensitivity to conventional radio and chemotherapies suggest that they are integral to the growth and post treatment recurrence of GBM. As such BTSCs represent a reservoir of disease that require novel therapeutic approaches to effectively eliminate in order to improve the outcome of GBM.

STAT proteins were originally discovered as latent cytoplasmic transcription factors that mediate cytokine and growth factor responses Darnell J. E. Jr. 1996 Recent Prog. Norm. Res. 51 391 403 Darnell J. E. 2005 Nat. Med. 1 1 595 596 . Seven members of the family STAT1 STAT2 STAT3 STAT4 STAT5a and STAT5b and STATE mediate several physiological effects including growth and differentiation survival development and inflammation. STATs are SH2 domain containing proteins. Upon ligand binding to cytokine or growth factor receptors STATs become phosphorylated on critical Tyr residue Tyr705 for STAT3 by growth factor receptors cytoplasmic Janus kinases Jaks or Src family kinases. Two phosphorylated and activated STAT monomers dimerize through reciprocal pTyr SH2 domain interactions translocate to the nucleus and bind to specific DNA response elements of target genes thereby inducing gene transcription Darnell J. E. Jr. 1996 Recent Prog. Norm. Res. 51 391 403 Darnell J. E. 2005 Nat. Med. 1 1 595 596 . In contrast to normal STAT signaling many human solid and hematological tumors harbor aberrant STAT3 activity Turkson J. Expert Opin. Ther. Targets 2004 8 409 422 Darnell J. E. Jr. 1996 Recent Prog. Norm. Res. 51 391 403 Darnell J. E. 2005 Nat. Med. 11 6 595 596 Bowman T. et al. 2000 Oncogene 19 21 2474 2488 Buettner et al. 2002 Clin. Cancer Res. 8 4 945 954 Yu H. and Jove. R. 2004 Nat. Rev. Cancer 4 2 97 105 Haura E. B. et al. 2005 Nat. Clin. Pract. Oncol. 2 6 315 324 .

Of note STAT3 protein is one of seven family members of the STAT family of transcription factor proteins. STAT3 is activated through phosphorylation of a tyrosine 705 Y705 that initiates complexation of two phosphorylated STAT3 monomers pSTAT3 . pSTAT3 homodimers are mediated through reciprocal STAT3 Src Homology 2 SH2 domain pY705 STAT3 interactions. pSTAT3 pSTAT3 homodimers translocate to the nucleus and bind DNA promoting STAT3 target gene transcription. Targeting STAT3 has been previously achieved with dominant negative constructs oligonucleotides or most commonly phosphopeptidic agents that mimic the native pY705 containing binding sequence.

Unfortunately these inhibitors are rapidly degraded in vivo which limits their use in the clinic. To circumvent these problems small molecule STAT3 inhibitors were designed for treatment of cancers harboring hyperactivated STAT3 protein. Acid based inhibitors have been identified in WO2012 018868 that potently and selectively block STAT3 dimerization and DNA binding activity namely compound 45O also referred to as BP 1 102 sometimes referred to as compound 1 herein . Compound 45O in WO2012018868 potently suppresses multiple oncogenic properties in diverse cultured cancer cells breast lung pancreatic prostate lung including cell proliferation anchorage independent cell growth migration invasion and motility. It is selective for STAT3 with over 10 fold less binding to 93 homologous STAT protein STAT1. It showed little or no effect on phosphorylation of Shc Src Jak 1 2 Erk1 2 or Akt and had no effect on non transformed cells NIH 3T3 cells STAT3 null mouse embryo fibroblasts or mouse thymus stromal cells nor does it affect transformed cells that do not harbor activated STAT3 . Moreover BP 1 102 exhibited striking anti tumor effects in vivo in murine xenograft models of lung or breast cancer resulting in dramatic regression in tumor volumes. Western blots of residual tumors from treated mice showed repression in pSTAT3 cMyc Cyclin D1 Bcl xL Survivin and VEGF in a dose dependent manner.

Moreover genetic and other molecular evidence reveals persistent Tyr phosphorylation of STAT3 is mediated by aberrant upstream Tyr kinases and shows cancer cell requirement for constitutively active and dimerized STAT3 for tumor maintenance and progression. Thus in numerous proof of concept studies Turkson J. et al. Mol. Cancer Ther. 2004 3 3 261 269 Turkson J. et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2001 276 48 45443 45455 Siddiquee K. et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2007 104 7391 7396 Turkson J. et al. Mol. Cancer Ther. 2004 3 1533 1542 and Turkson J. et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2005 280 38 32979 32988 inhibition of STAT3 activation or disruption of dimerization induces cancer cell death and tumor regression. Small molecule STAT3 inhibitors thus provide tools for probing the molecular dynamics of the cellular processing of STAT3 to understand STAT3 s role as a signaling intermediate and a molecular mediator of the events leading to carcinogenesis and malignant progression. Moreover since the STAT3 pathway is a key oncogenic driver in over a dozen types of human cancers including all the major carcinomas including breast brain colon pancreas ovarian and squamous cell carcinomas of head and neck SCCHN cancers and melanomas as well as some hematologic tumors Bowman T et al 2000 Oncogene 19 2474 88 and Darnell J. E. 2005 Nat. Med. 1 1 595 596 the direct inhibition of STAT3 would provide a molecularly targeted route for effectively managing these cancers and especially aggressive forms such as GBM.

In a seminal paper Carro et al. 463 7279 318 325 2010 demonstrated that the Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 STAT3 gene abnormally active in GBM is a critically important mediator of tumour growth and therapeutic resistance in GBM. Poorly treated brain cancers such as gliomas astrocytomas and glioblastomas harbor constitutively activated STAT3. In addition a growing body of recent evidence gathered using a variety of different small molecules that indirectly inhibit STAT3 by targeting upstream molecules such as the JAK family members strongly suggest that STAT3 signaling is crucial for the survival and proliferation of BTSCs and GBM both in vitro and in vivo. However due to their broad targeting nature existing drugs for treating GBM have limited translational potential due to numerous side effects. Hence drugs with the ability to more specifically block STAT3 activity may provide effective treatment for GBM patients.

STAT5 signaling like STAT3 signaling is transiently activated in normal cells and is deactivated by a number of different cytosolic and nuclear regulators including phosphatases SOCS PIAS and proteasomal degradation. Like STAT3 STAT5 has gained notoriety for its aberrant role in human cancers and tumorigenesis having been found to be constitutively activated in many cancers including those of the breast liver prostate blood skin head and neck. Muller J. et al. ChemBioChem 2008 9 723 727 . In cancer cells STAT5 is routinely constitutively phosphorylated which leads to the aberrant expression of STAT5 target genes resulting in malignant transformation. Cancer cells harbouring persistently activated STAT5 over express anti apoptotic proteins such as Bcl xL Myc and MCL 1 conferring significant resistance to natural apoptotic cues and administered chemotherapeutic agents. Of particular interest STAT5 has been identified as a key regulator in the development and progression of acute myelogenic AML and acute lymphoblastic leukemias ALL Gouilleux Gruart V. et al. Leukemia and Lymphoma 1997 28 83 88 Gouilleux Gruart V. et al. Blood 1996 87 1692 1697 Weber Nordt R. M. et al. Blood 1996 88 809 816 . Moreover inhibitors of upstream STAT5 activators such as JA and FLT3 have been shown to exhibit promising anti cancer properties Pardanani A. et al. Leukemia 2011 25 218 225 Quintas Cardama A. et al. Nature Reviews Drug Discovery 2011 10 127 140 .

It should be noted that medical benefits through the inhibition of STAT3 5 are not limited to the various forms of cancer described herein where these targets are constitutively activated but would also be applicable to treating other conditions where these pathways are know to play a key role such as but not limited to autoimmune disorders Harris T. J. et al Immunol. 2007 179 7 4313 4317 inflammation associated with arthritis Miyamoto. T et al Arthritis Research Therapy 2012 14 Suppl 1 P43 inflammatory bowel disease IBD World J Gastroenterol. 2008 14 33 5110 5114. diabetes Mashili F. et al 2013 Diabetes 62 2 457 465 irritable bowel syndrome IBS kidney disease Weimbs T. 2013 JAK STAT 2 2 0 1 and organ transplant Debonera F. et al 2001 J. Surg. Res. 96 2 289 295 .

Despite advances in drug discovery directed to identifying inhibitors of STAT protein activity there is still a scarcity of compounds that are both potent efficacious and selective activators of STAT3 and STAT5 and also effective in the treatment of cancer and other diseases associated with dysfunction in STAT3 STAT5 or both proteins and diseases in which one or both of STAT3 and STAT5 is involved. Moreover there is still a need for optimization of potency and reduced pharmacokinetic liabilities of existing compounds. These needs and other needs are satisfied by the present invention.

In accordance with the purpose s of the invention as embodied and broadly described herein the invention in one aspect relates to compounds useful as inhibitors of STAT3.

In a further aspect the disclosed compounds and products of disclosed methods of making or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate solvate or polymorph thereof are modulators of STAT3 and or STAT5 activity methods of making same pharmaceutical compositions comprising same and methods of treating disorders associated with a STAT3 activity dysfunction using same.

In a still further aspect the present invention relates to compounds that bind to STAT3 protein and negatively modulate STAT3 activity.

In a further aspect the present invention relates to compounds that bind to STAT5 protein and negatively modulate STAT5 activity.

Also disclosed are pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a disclosed compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Disclosed are methods for the treatment of a disorder associated with STAT3 STAT5 activity dysfunction preferably hyperactivity or over expression in a mammal comprising the step of administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a disclosed compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate solvate or polymorph thereof.

Also disclosed are methods for inhibition of STAT3 and or STAT5 activity in a mammal comprising the step of administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of least one disclosed compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate solvate or polymorph thereof.

Also disclosed are methods for inhibiting STAT3 and or STAT5 activity in at least one cell comprising the step of contacting the at least one cell with an effective amount of least one disclosed compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate solvate or polymorph thereof.

Also disclosed are uses of at least one disclosed compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate solvate or polymorph thereof.

wherein Ris selected from A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A and A A L A wherein Ais Ccycloalkyl and substituted with 0 3 groups selected from halo hydroxyl amino nitro cyano Chaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy Cpolyhaloalkoxy Calkylthio Chaloalkythio Cpolyhaloalkylthio Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C alk C alkoxy C alk C haloalkoxy C alk C polyhaloalkoxy C alk C alkylthio C alk C haloalkythio C alk C polyhaloalkylthio COH C O R C O OR and C O NHR wherein Ais Ccycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl substituted with 0 3 groups selected from halo hydroxyl amino nitro cyano Chaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy Cpolyhaloalkoxy Calkylthio Chaloalkythio Cpolyhaloalkylthio Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C alk C alkoxy C alk C haloalkoxy C alk C polyhaloalkoxy C alk C alkylthio C alk C haloalkythio C alk C polyhaloalkylthio COH C O R6 C O OR6 and C O NHR6 wherein Ais aryl and substituted with 0 3 groups selected from halo hydroxyl amino nitro cyano Chaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy Cpolyhaloalkoxy Calkylthio Chaloalkythio Cpolyhaloalkylthio Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C alk C alkoxy C alk C haloalkoxy C alk C polyhaloalkoxy C alk C alkylthio C alk C haloalkythio C alk C polyhaloalkylthio COH C O R7 C O OR7 and C O NHR7 wherein Ais aryl and substituted with 1 3 groups selected from halo hydroxyl amino nitro cyano Chaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy Cpolyhaloalkoxy Calkylthio Chaloalkythio Cpolyhaloalkylthio Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C alk C alkoxy C alk C haloalkoxy C alk C polyhaloalkoxy C alk C alkylthio C alk C haloalkythio C alk C polyhaloalkylthio COH C O R8 C O OR8 and C O NHR8 wherein Ais selected from Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl and aryl and substituted with 0 3 groups selected from halo hydroxyl amino nitro cyano Chaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy Cpolyhaloalkoxy Calkylthio Chaloalkythio Cpolyhaloalkylthio Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C alk C alkoxy C alk C haloalkoxy C alk C polyhaloalkoxy C alk C alkylthio C alk C haloalkythio C alk C polyhaloalkylthio COH C O R9 C O OR9 and C O NHR9 wherein Ais selected from Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl and aryl and substituted with 0 3 groups selected from halo hydroxyl amino nitro cyano Chaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy Cpolyhaloalkoxy Calkylthio Chaloalkythio Cpolyhaloalkylthio Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C alk C alkoxy C alk C haloalkoxy C alk C polyhaloalkoxy C alk C alkylthio C alk C haloalkythio C alk C polyhaloalkylthio COH C O R10 C O OR10 and C O NHR10 wherein Ais selected from Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl and aryl and substituted with 0 3 groups selected from halo hydroxyl amino nitro cyano Chaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy Cpolyhaloalkoxy Calkylthio Chaloalkythio Cpolyhaloalkylthio Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C alk C alkoxy C alk C haloalkoxy C alk C polyhaloalkoxy C alk C alkylthio C alk C haloalkythio C alk C polyhaloalkylthio COH C O R11 C O OR11 and C O NHR11 wherein Ais selected from Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl and aryl and substituted with 0 3 groups selected from halo hydroxyl amino nitro Chaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy Cpolyhaloalkoxy Calkylthio Chaloalkythio polyhaloalkylthio Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C alk C alkoxy C alk C haloalkoxy C alk C polyhaloalkoxy C alk C alkylthio C alk C haloalkythio C alk C polyhaloalkylthio COH C O R12 C O OR12 and C O NHR12 wherein L is selected from C 0 and SO wherein Ris selected from Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Chaloalkenyl Chaloalkynyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkenyl Cpolyhaloalkynyl or wherein Ris aryl and substituted with 0 5 groups independently selected from halo hydroxyl amino nitro cyano Chaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy Cpolyhaloalkoxy Calkylthio Chaloalkythio Cpolyhaloalkylthio Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C alk C alkoxy C alk C haloalkoxy C alk C polyhaloalkoxy C alk C alkylthio C alk C haloalkythio C alk C polyhaloalkylthio COH C O OR12 and C O NHR12 wherein Ris aryl substituted with 0 5 groups independently selected from halo hydroxyl amino nitro cyano Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cpolyhaloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy Cpolyhaloalkoxy Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C alk C alkoxy C alk C haloalkoxy and C alk C polyhaloalkoxy wherein each of R5 R6 R7 R8 R9 R10 R11 and Ris independently selected from hydrogen Calkyl Chaloalkyl and Cpolyhaloalkyl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate solvate or polymorph thereof 

In a further aspect the invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and an effective amount of a disclosed compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate solvate or polymorph thereof.

In another aspect of the disclosure there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as defined herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or prodrug thereof and an acceptable excipient.

In another aspect of the disclosure there is provided a method for inhibiting STAT3 and or STAT5 activity comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound as defined herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or prodrug thereof to a patient.

In yet another aspect of the disclosure there is provided a method for treating or preventing cancer associated with STAT3 STAT5 activity dysfunction preferably hyperactivity thereof or over expression of same comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound as defined herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or prodrug thereof to a patient. In alternative aspect the cancer is from solid or hematological tumors. Still in other aspect the cancer is one harbouring activated STAT3 and or STAT5. Such cancer can be for example breast liver prostate blood skin head neck cancer glioblastoma or acute myelogenic AML and acute lymphoblastic leukemias.

In another aspect of the disclosure there is provided the use of a compound as defined herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or prodrug thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting STAT3 and or STAT5 activity.

In another aspect of the disclosure there is provided the use of a compound as defined herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or prodrug thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for treating or preventing cancer harbouring activated STAT3 and or STAT5 such as cancer from solid or hematological tumors breast cancer liver cancer prostate cancer blood cancer skin cancer head cancer neck cancer glioblastoma or acute myelogenic AML and acute lymphoblastic leukemias.

In yet another aspect of the disclosure there is provided the use of a compound as defined herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or prodrug thereof for inhibiting STAT3 and or STAT5 activity.

In another aspect of the disclosure there is provided the use of a compound as defined herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or prodrug thereof for treating or preventing cancer harbouring activated STAT3 and or STAT5 such as the cancer is from solid or hematological tumors breast cancer liver cancer prostate cancer blood cancer skin cancer head cancer neck cancer glioblastoma or acute myelogenic AML and acute lymphoblastic leukemiasassociated with STAT3 STAT5 activity dysfunction such as breast prostate or brain cancer.

In another aspect of the disclosure there is provided a pharmaceutical composition as defined herein for use in inhibiting STAT3 and or STAT5 activity.

In yet another aspect of the disclosure there is provided a pharmaceutical composition as defined herein for use in treating or preventing cancer harbouring activated STAT3 and or STAT5 such as the cancer is from solid or hematological tumors breast cancer liver cancer prostate cancer blood cancer skin cancer head cancer neck cancer glioblastoma or acute myelogenic AML and acute lymphoblastic leukemias.

Also disclosed are methods for manufacturing a medicament comprising combining at least one disclosed compound or at least one disclosed product with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. In a further aspect the invention relates to the use of a disclosed compound in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a disorder associated with STAT3 STAT5 activity dysfunction such as hyperactivity or over expression . In a still further aspect the invention relates to the use of the disclosed compound in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a cancer harbouring activated STAT3 and or STAT5 such as the cancer is from solid or hematological tumors breast cancer liver cancer prostate cancer blood cancer skin cancer head cancer neck cancer glioblastoma or acute myelogenic AML and acute lymphoblastic leukemias.

Additional advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or can be learned by practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The present invention can be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description of the invention and the Examples included therein.

Before the present compounds compositions articles systems devices and or methods are disclosed and described it is to be understood that they are not limited to specific synthetic methods unless otherwise specified or to particular reagents unless otherwise specified as such may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects only and is not intended to be limiting. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention example methods and materials are now described.

All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the methods and or materials in connection with which the publications are cited. The publications discussed herein are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further the dates of publication provided herein can be different from the actual publication dates which can require independent confirmation.

As used herein nomenclature for compounds including organic compounds can be given using common names IUPAC IUBMB or CAS recommendations for nomenclature. When one or more stereochemical features are present Cahn Ingold Prelog rules for stereochemistry can be employed to designate stereochemical priority EIZ specification and the like. One of skill in the art can readily ascertain the structure of a compound if given a name either by systemic reduction of the compound structure using naming conventions or by commercially available software such as CHEMDRAW Cambridgesoft Corporation U.S.A. .

As used in the specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a functional group an alkyl or a residue includes mixtures of two or more such functional groups alkyls or residues and the like.

Ranges can be expressed herein as from about one particular value and or to about another particular value. When such a range is expressed a further aspect includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms a further aspect. It will be further understood that the endpoints of each of the ranges are significant both in relation to the other endpoint and independently of the other endpoint. It is also understood that there are a number of values disclosed herein and that each value is also herein disclosed as about that particular value in addition to the value itself. For example if the value 10 is disclosed then about 10 is also disclosed. It is also understood that each unit between two particular units are also disclosed. For example if 10 and 15 are disclosed then 11 12 13 and 14 are also disclosed.

References in the specification and concluding claims to parts by weight of a particular element or component in a composition denotes the weight relationship between the element or component and any other elements or components in the composition or article for which a part by weight is expressed. Thus in a compound containing 2 parts by weight of component X and 5 parts by weight component Y X and Y are present at a weight ratio of 2 5 and are present in such ratio regardless of whether additional components are contained in the compound.

A weight percent wt. of a component unless specifically stated to the contrary is based on the total weight of the formulation or composition in which the component is included.

As used herein the terms optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance can or cannot occur and that the description includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances where it does not.

As used herein the terms STAT3 signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 acute phase response and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 can be used interchangeably and refer to a transcription factor encoded by a gene designated in human as the STAT3 gene which has a human gene map locus of 17q21 and described by Entrez Gene cytogenetic band 17q21.31 Ensembl cytogenetic band 17q21.2 and HGNC cytogenetic band 17q21. The term STAT3 refers to a human protein that has 770 amino acids and has a molecular weight of about 88 068 Da. The term is inclusive of splice isoforms or variants and also inclusive of that protein referred to by such alternative designations as APRF MGC 16063 Acute phase response factor DNA binding protein APRF HIES as used by those skilled in the art to that protein encoded by human gene STAT3. The term is also inclusive of the non human ortholog or homolog thereof.

As used herein STAT5 refers to STAT5A and or STAT5B. If specific reference to either STAT5A or STAT5B is required the specific term will be used herein.

As used herein STAT5A and signal transducer and activator of transcription 5A can be used interchangeably and refer to a transcription factor encoded by a gene designated in human as the STAT5A gene which has a human gene map locus described by Entrez Gene cytogenetic band 17ql 1.2 Ensembl cytogenetic band 17q21.2 and HGNC cytogenetic band 17q l 1.2. The term STAT5A refers to a human protein that has 794 amino acids and has a molecular weight of about 90 647 Da. The term is inclusive of splice isoforms or variants and also inclusive of that protein referred to by such alternative designations as MGF and STAT5 as used by those skilled in the art to that protein encoded by human gene STAT5A. The term is also inclusive of the non human ortholog or homolog thereof.

As used herein STAT5B and signal transducer and activator of transcription 5B can be used interchangeably and refer to a transcription factor encoded by a gene designated in human as the STAT5B gene which has a human gene map locus described by Entrez Gene cytogenetic band 17ql 1.2 Ensembl cytogenetic band 17q21.2 and HGNC cytogenetic band 17ql 1.2. The term STAT5A refers to a human protein that has 787 amino acids and has a molecular weight of about 89 866 Da. The term is inclusive of splice isoforms or variants and also inclusive of that protein referred to by such alternative designations as transcription factor STAT5B as used by those skilled in the art to that protein encoded by human gene STAT5A. The term is also inclusive of the non human ortholog or homolog thereof.

As used herein the term subject can be a vertebrate such as a mammal a fish a bird a reptile or an amphibian. Thus the subject of the herein disclosed methods can be a human non human primate horse pig rabbit dog sheep goat cow cat guinea pig or rodent. The term does not denote a particular age or sex. In one aspect the subject is a mammal. A patient refers herein to a subject afflicted with cancer preferably glioblastoma. The term patient includes human and veterinary subjects.

As used herein the term treatment refers to the medical management of a patient with the intent to cure ameliorate stabilize or prevent a disease pathological condition or disorder. This term includes active treatment that is treatment directed specifically toward the improvement of a disease pathological condition or disorder and also includes causal treatment that is treatment directed toward removal of the cause of the associated disease pathological condition or disorder. In addition this term includes palliative treatment that is treatment designed for the relief of symptoms rather than the curing of the disease pathological condition or disorder preventative treatment that is treatment directed to minimizing or partially or completely inhibiting the development of the associated disease pathological condition or disorder and supportive treatment that is treatment employed to supplement another specific therapy directed toward the improvement of the associated disease pathological condition or disorder. In various aspects the term covers any treatment of a subject including a mammal e.g. a human and includes i preventing the disease from occurring in a subject that can be predisposed to the disease but has not yet been diagnosed as having it ii inhibiting the disease i.e. arresting its development or iii relieving the disease i.e. causing regression of the disease. In one aspect the subject is a mammal such as a primate and in a further aspect the subject is a human. The term subject also includes domesticated animals e.g. cats dogs etc. livestock e.g. cattle horses pigs sheep goats etc. and laboratory animals e.g. mouse rabbit rat guinea pig fruit fly etc. .

As used herein the term prevent or preventing refers to precluding averting obviating forestalling stopping or hindering something from happening especially by advance action. It is understood that where reduce inhibit or prevent are used herein unless specifically indicated otherwise the use of the other two words is also expressly disclosed.

As used herein the term diagnosed means having been subjected to a physical examination by a person of skill for example a physician and found to have a condition that can be diagnosed or treated by the compounds compositions or methods disclosed herein. For example diagnosed with a disorder treatable by STAT3 inhibition means having been subjected to a physical examination by a person of skill for example a physician and found to have a condition that can be diagnosed or treated by a compound or composition that can inhibit or negatively modulate STAT3. As a further example diagnosed with a need for inhibition of STAT3 refers to having been subjected to a physical examination by a person of skill for example a physician and found to have a condition characterized by a dysfunction in STAT3 activity. Such a diagnosis can be in reference to a disorder such as an oncological disorder or disease cancer and or disorder of uncontrolled cellular proliferation and the like as discussed herein. For example the term diagnosed with a need for inhibition of STAT3 activity refers to having been subjected to a physical examination by a person of skill for example a physician and found to have a condition that can be diagnosed or treated by inhibition of STAT3 activity. For example diagnosed with a need for modulation of STAT3 activity means having been subjected to a physical examination by a person of skill for example a physician and found to have a condition that can be diagnosed or treated by modulation of STAT3 activity e.g. negative modulation. For example diagnosed with a need for treatment of one or more disorder of uncontrolled cellular proliferation associated with STAT3 dysfunction means having been subjected to a physical examination by a person of skill for example a physician and found to have one or disorders of uncontrolled cellular proliferation e.g. a cancer associated with STAT3 dysfunction.

As used herein the expression STAT3 or STAT5 dependent cancer refers to a cancer harboring constitutively activated STAT3 or STAT5.

As used herein the phrase identified to be in need of treatment for a disorder or the like refers to selection of a subject based upon need for treatment of the disorder. For example a subject can be identified as having a need for treatment of a disorder e.g. a disorder related to STAT3 activity based upon an earlier diagnosis by a person of skill and thereafter subjected to treatment for the disorder. It is contemplated that the identification can in one aspect be performed by a person different from the person making the diagnosis. It is also contemplated in a further aspect that the administration can be performed by one who subsequently performed the administration.

As used herein the terms administering and administration refer to any method of providing a pharmaceutical preparation to a subject. Such methods are well known to those skilled in the art and include but are not limited to oral administration transdermal administration administration by inhalation nasal administration topical administration intravaginal administration ophthalmic administration intraaural administration intracerebral administration rectal administration sublingual administration buccal administration and parenteral administration including injectable such as intravenous administration intra arterial administration intramuscular administration and subcutaneous administration. Administration can be continuous or intermittent. In various aspects a preparation can be administered therapeutically that is administered to treat an existing disease or condition. In further various aspects a preparation can be administered prophylactically that is administered for prevention of a disease or condition.

The term contacting as used herein refers to bringing a disclosed compound and a cell target STAT3 protein or other biological entity together in such a manner that the compound can affect the activity of the target e.g. spliceosome cell etc. either directly i.e. by interacting with the target itself or indirectly i.e. by interacting with another molecule co factor factor or protein on which the activity of the target is dependent.

As used herein the terms effective amount and amount effective refer to an amount that is sufficient to achieve the desired result or to have an effect on an undesired condition. For example a therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount that is sufficient to achieve the desired therapeutic result or to have an effect on undesired symptoms but is generally insufficient to cause adverse side effects. The specific therapeutically effective dose level for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the disorder being treated and the severity of the disorder the specific composition employed the age body weight general health sex and diet of the patient the time of administration the route of administration the rate of excretion of the specific compound employed the duration of the treatment drugs used in combination or coincidental with the specific compound employed and like factors well known in the medical arts. For example it is well within the skill of the art to start doses of a compound at levels lower than those required to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and to gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved. If desired the effective daily dose can be divided into multiple doses for purposes of administration. Consequently single dose compositions can contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. The dosage can be adjusted by the individual physician in the event of any contraindications. Dosage can vary and can be administered in one or more dose administrations daily for one or several days. Guidance can be found in the literature for appropriate dosages for given classes of pharmaceutical products. In further various aspects a preparation can be administered in a prophylactically effective amount that is an amount effective for prevention of a disease or condition.

As used herein EC is intended to refer to the concentration of a substance e.g. a compound or a drug that is required for 50 agonism or activation of a biological process or component of a process including a protein subunit organelle ribonucleoprotein etc. In one aspect an ECcan refer to the concentration of a substance that is required for 50 agonism or activation in vivo as further defined elsewhere herein. In a further aspect ECrefers to the concentration of agonist or activator that provokes a response halfway between the baseline and maximum response.

As used herein IC is intended to refer to the concentration of a substance e.g. a compound or a drug that is required for 50 inhibition of a biological process or component of a process including a protein subunit organelle ribonucleoprotein etc. In some contexts an ICcan refer to the plasma concentration of a substance that is required for 50 inhibition in vivo as further defined elsewhere herein. More commonly ICrefers to the half maximal 50 inhibitory concentration IC of a substance required to inhibit a process or activity in vitro.

As used herein STAT3 IC refers to the concentration of a substance e.g. a compound or a drug that is required for 50 inhibition of a STAT3 activity. In some contexts an ICcan refer to the plasma concentration of a substance that is required for 50 inhibition of an in vivo activity or process as further defined elsewhere herein e.g. tumor growth in an animal or human. In other contexts STAT3 ICrefers the half maximal 50 inhibitory concentration IC of a substance or compound required to inhibit a process or activity an in vitro context e.g. a cell free or cell based assay. For example the STAT3 ICcan be in the context of the half maximal concentration required to inhibit cell growth. As discussed below the response is measured in a cell line with aberrant STAT3 activity. Alternatively the response is measured in a cell line with persistently active STAT3. The response can be determined using a cell line derived from a human breast cancer human pancreatic cancer and human prostate cancer. For example the response can be measured in a cell line selected from MDA MB 231 Pane 1 and DU 145. Cell lines transfected with specific genes can also be used. For example the response can be measured in a cell line transfected with v Src. Alternatively the cell line transfected with v Src is a permanent cell line. In some cases the STAT3 ICis the half maximal concentration required to inhibit STAT3 activity in a cell free assay e.g. an electrophoretic mobility shift assay EMSA . Alternatively the STAT3 ICis the half maximal concentration required to inhibit cell growth cell viability or cell migration activity.

As used herein the term STAT3 K refers to the binding affinity of a compound or substance for the STAT3 determined in an in vitro assay. The Kof a substance for a protein can be determined by a variety of methods known to one skilled in the art e.g. equilibrium dialysis analytical ultracentrifugation and surface plasmon resonance SPR analysis. As typically used herein STAT3 Kis defined as the ratio of association and dissociation rate constants determined using SPR analysis using purified STAT3 protein.

As used herein the term STAT3 K refers to the inhibition constant for the displacement of a STAT3 SH2 probe from STAT3 protein. For example the STAT3 SH2 can be fluorescence labelled GpYLPQTV. As described herein the fluorescence label is 5 carboxyfluorescein although other suitable fluorescence probes can be used as determined to be useful and convenient by one skilled in the art.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable describes a material that is not biologically or otherwise undesirable i.e. without causing an unacceptable level of undesirable biological effects or interacting in a deleterious manner.

As used herein the term derivative refers to a compound having a structure derived from the structure of a parent compound e.g. a compound disclosed herein and whose structure is sufficiently similar to those disclosed herein and based upon that similarity would be expected by one skilled in the art to exhibit the same or similar activities and utilities as the claimed compounds or to induce as a precursor the same or similar activities and utilities as the claimed compounds. Exemplary derivatives include salts esters amides salts of esters or amides and N oxides of a parent compound.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to sterile aqueous or non aqueous solutions dispersions suspensions or emulsions as well as sterile powders for reconstitution into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior to use. Examples of suitable aqueous and non aqueous carriers diluents solvents or vehicles include water ethanol polyols such as glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and the like carboxymethylcellulose and suitable mixtures thereof vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of coating materials such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions and by the use of surfactants. These compositions can also contain adjuvants such as preservatives wetting agents emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal agents such as paraben chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid and the like. It can also be desirable to include isotonic agents such as sugars sodium chloride and the like. Prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the inclusion of agents such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin which delay absorption. Injectable depot forms are made by forming microencapsule matrices of the drug in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide polyglycolide poly orthoesters and poly anhydrides . Depending upon the ratio of drug to polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed the rate of drug release can be controlled. Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the drug in liposomes or microemulsions which are compatible with body tissues. The injectable formulations can be sterilized for example by filtration through a bacterial retaining filter or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile injectable media just prior to use. Suitable inert carriers can include sugars such as lactose. Desirably at least 95 by weight of the particles of the active ingredient have an effective particle size in the range of 0.01 to 10 micrometers.

A residue of a chemical species as used in the specification and concluding claims refers to the moiety that is the resulting product of the chemical species in a particular reaction scheme or subsequent formulation or chemical product regardless of whether the moiety is actually obtained from the chemical species.

As used herein the term substituted is contemplated to include all permissible substituents of organic compounds. In a broad aspect the permissible substituents include acyclic and cyclic branched and unbranched carbocyclic and heterocyclic and aromatic and nonaromatic substituents of organic compounds. Illustrative substituents include for example those described below. The permissible substituents can be one or more and the same or different for appropriate organic compounds. For purposes of this disclosure the heteroatoms such as nitrogen can have hydrogen substituents and or any permissible substituents of organic compounds described herein which satisfy the valences of the heteroatoms. This disclosure is not intended to be limited in any manner by the permissible substituents of organic compounds. Also the terms substitution or substituted with include the implicit proviso that such substitution is in accordance with permitted valence of the substituted atom and the substituent and that the substitution results in a stable compound e.g. a compound that does not spontaneously undergo transformation such as by rearrangement cyclization elimination etc. It is also contemplated that in certain aspects unless expressly indicated to the contrary individual substituents can be further optionally substituted i.e. further substituted or unsubstituted .

In defining various terms A A A and A are used herein as generic symbols to represent various specific substituents. These symbols can be any substituent not limited to those disclosed herein and when they are defined to be certain substituents in one instance they can in another instance be defined as some other substituents.

The term alkyl as used herein is a branched or unbranched saturated hydrocarbon group of 1 to 24 carbon atoms such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl s butyl butyl n pentyl isopentyl i pentyl neopentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl decyl dode cyl tetradecyl hexadecyl eicosyl tetracosyl and the like. The alkyl group can be cyclic or acyclic. The alkyl group can be branched or unbranched. The alkyl group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkyl group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy amino ether halide hydroxy nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol as described herein. A lower alkyl group is an alkyl group containing from one to six e.g. from one to four carbon atoms.

Throughout the specification alkyl is generally used to refer to both unsubstituted alkyl groups and substituted alkyl groups however substituted alkyl groups are also specifically referred to herein by identifying the specific substituent s on the alkyl group. For example the term halogenated alkyl or haloalkyl specifically refers to an alkyl group that is substituted with one or more halide e.g. fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine. The term alkoxyalkyl specifically refers to an alkyl group that is substituted with one or more alkoxy groups as described below. The term alkylamino specifically refers to an alkyl group that is substituted with one or more amino groups as described below and the like. When alkyl is used in one instance and a specific term such as alkylalcohol is used in another it is not meant to imply that the term alkyl does not also refer to specific terms such as alkylalcohol and the like. 0086 This practice is also used for other groups described herein. That is while a term such as cycloalkyl refers to both unsubstituted and substituted cycloalkyl moieties the substituted moieties can in addition be specifically identified herein for example a particular substituted cycloalkyl can be referred to as e.g. an alkylcycloalkyl. Similarly a substituted alkoxy can be specifically referred to as e.g. a halogenated alkoxy a particular substituted alkenyl can be e.g. an alkenylalcohol and the like. Again the practice of using a general term such as cycloalkyl and a specific term such as alkylcycloalkyl is not meant to imply that the general term does not also include the specific term.

The term cycloalkyl as used herein is a non aromatic carbon based ring composed of at least three carbon atoms. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl norbornyl and the like. The term heterocycloalkyl is a type of cycloalkyl group as defined above and is included within the meaning of the term cycloalkyl where at least one of the carbon atoms of the ring is replaced with a heteroatom such as but not limited to nitrogen oxygen sulfur or phosphorus. The cycloalkyl group and heterocycloalkyl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. The cycloalkyl group and heterocycloalkyl group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy amino ether halide hydroxy nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol as described herein.

The term polyalkylene group as used herein is a group having two or more CHgroups linked to one another. The polyalkylene group can be represented by the formula CH2 where a is an integer of from 2 to 500.

The terms alkoxy and alkoxyl as used herein to refer to an alkyl or cycloalkyl group bonded through an ether linkage that is an alkoxy group can be defined as OAwhere Ais alkyl or cycloalkyl as defined above. Alkoxy also includes polymers of alkoxy groups as just described that is an alkoxy can be a polyether such as OA OAor OA OA OA where a is an integer of from 1 to 200 and A A and Aare alkyl and or cycloalkyl groups.

The term alkenyl as used herein is a hydrocarbon group of from 2 to 24 carbon atoms with a structural formula containing at least one carbon carbon double bond. Asymmetric structures such as AA C C AA are intended to include both the E and Z isomers. This can be presumed in structural formulae herein wherein an asymmetric alkene is present or it can be explicitly indicated by the bond symbol C C. The alkenyl group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl heteroaryl aldehyde amino carboxylic acid ester ether halide hydroxy ketone azide nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol as described herein.

The term cycloalkenyl as used herein is a non aromatic carbon based ring composed of at least three carbon atoms and containing at least one carbon carbon double bound i.e. C C. Examples of cycloalkenyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropenyl cyclobutenyl cyclopentenyl cyclopentadienyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl norbornenyl and the like. The term heterocycloalkenyl is a type of cycloalkenyl group as defined above and is included within the meaning of the term cycloalkenyl where at least one of the carbon atoms of the ring is replaced with a heteroatom such as but not limited to nitrogen oxygen sulfur or phosphorus. The cycloalkenyl group and heterocycloalkenyl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. The cycloalkenyl group and heterocycloalkenyl group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl heteroaryl aldehyde amino carboxylic acid ester ether halide hydroxy ketone azide nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol as described herein.

The term alkynyl as used herein is a hydrocarbon group of 2 to 24 carbon atoms with a structural formula containing at least one carbon carbon triple bond. The alkynyl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl heteroaryl aldehyde amino carboxylic acid ester ether halide hydroxy ketone azide nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol as described herein.

The term cycloalkynyl as used herein is a non aromatic carbon based ring composed of at least seven carbon atoms and containing at least one carbon carbon triple bound. Examples of cycloalkynyl groups include but are not limited to cycloheptynyl cyclooctynyl cyclononynyl and the like. The term heterocycloalkynyl is a type of cycloalkenyl group as defined above and is included within the meaning of the term cycloalkynyl where at least one of the carbon atoms of the ring is replaced with a heteroatom such as but not limited to nitrogen oxygen sulfur or phosphorus. The cycloalkynyl group and heterocycloalkynyl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. The cycloalkynyl group and heterocycloalkynyl group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl heteroaryl aldehyde amino carboxylic acid ester ether halide hydroxy ketone azide nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol as described herein.

The term aryl as used herein is a group that contains any carbon based aromatic group including but not limited to benzene naphthalene phenyl biphenyl phenoxybenzene and the like. The term aryl also includes heteroaryl which is defined as a group that contains an aromatic group that has at least one heteroatom incorporated within the ring of the aromatic group. Examples of heteroatoms include but are not limited to nitrogen oxygen sulfur and phosphorus. Likewise the term non heteroaryl which is also included in the term aryl defines a group that contains an aromatic group that does not contain a heteroatom. The aryl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. The aryl group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl heteroaryl aldehyde amino carboxylic acid ester ether halide hydroxy ketone azide nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol as described herein. The term biaryl is a specific type of aryl group and is included in the definition of aryl. Biaryl refers to two aryl groups that are bound together via a fused ring structure as in naphthalene or are attached via one or more carbon carbon bonds as in biphenyl.

The term aldehyde as used herein is represented by the formula C O H. Throughout this specification C O is a short hand notation for a carbonyl group i.e. C O.

The terms amine or amino as used herein are represented by the formula NAA where Aand Acan be independently hydrogen or alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl or heteroaryl group as described herein.

The term alkylamino as used herein is represented by the formula NH alkyl where alkyl is a described herein. Representative examples include but are not limited to methylamino group ethylamino group propylamino group isopropylamino group butylamino group isobutylamino group sec butyl amino group tert butyl amino group pentylamino group isopentylamino group tert pentyl amino group hexylamino group and the like.

The term dialkylamino as used herein is represented by the formula N alkyl 2 where alkyl is a described herein. Representative examples include but are not limited to dimethylamino group diethylamino group dipropylamino group diisopropylamino group dibutylamino group diisobutylamino group di sec butyl amino group di tert butyl amino group dipentylamino group diisopentylamino group di tert pentyl amino group dihexylamino group N ethyl N methylamino group N methyl N propylamino group N ethyl N propylamino group and the like.

The term ester as used herein is represented by the formula OC O Aor C O OA where Acan be alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl or heteroaryl group as described herein. The term polyester as used herein is represented by the formula AO O C A C O O or AO O C A OC O where Aand Acan be independently an alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl or heteroaryl group described herein and a is an integer from 1 to 500. Polyester is as the tem used to describe a group that is produced by the reaction between a compound having at least two carboxylic acid groups with a compound having at least two hydroxyl groups.

The term ether as used herein is represented by the formula AOA where Aand Acan be independently an alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl or heteroaryl group described herein. The term polyether as used herein is represented by the formula A0 AO where Aand Acan be independently an alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl or heteroaryl group described herein and a is an integer of from 1 to 500. Examples of polyether groups include polyethylene oxide polypropylene oxide and polybutylene oxide.

The term heterocycle as used herein refers to single and multi cyclic aromatic or non aromatic ring systems in which at least one of the ring members is other than carbon. Heterocycle includes azetidine dioxane furan imidazole isothiazole isoxazole morpholine oxazole oxazole including 1 2 3 oxadiazole 1 2 5 oxadiazole and 1 3 4 oxadiazole piperazine piperidine pyrazine pyrazole pyridazine pyridine pyrimidine pyrrole pyrrolidine tetrahydrofuran tetrahydropyran tetrazine including 1 2 4 5 tetrazine tetrazole including 1 2 3 4 tetrazole and 1 2 4 5 tetrazole thiadiazole including 1 2 3 thiadiazole 1 2 5 thiadiazole and 1 3 4 thiadiazole thiazole thiophene triazine including 1 3 5 triazine and 1 2 4 triazine triazole including 1 2 3 triazole 1 3 4 triazole and the like.

The term ketone as used herein is represented by the formula AC O A where Aand Acan be independently an alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl or heteroaryl group as described herein.

The term sulfo oxo as used herein is represented by the formulas S O A S O A OS O A or OS O OA where Acan be hydrogen or an alkyl cycloaikyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl or heteroaryl group as described herein. Throughout this specification S O is a short hand notation for S 0. The term sulfonyl is used herein to refer to the sulfo oxo group represented by the S O A where Acan be hydrogen or an alkyl cycloaikyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl or heteroaryl group as described herein. The term sulfone as used herein is represented by the formula AS O A where Aand Acan be independently an alkyl cycloaikyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl or heteroaryl group as described herein. The term sulfoxide as used herein is represented by the formula AS O A where Aand Acan be independently an alkyl cycloaikyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl or heteroaryl group as described herein.

 R R R R where n is an integer as used herein can independently possess one or more of the groups listed above. For example if Ris a straight chain alkyl group one of the hydrogen atoms of the alkyl group can optionally be substituted with a hydroxyl group an alkoxy group an alkyl group a halide and the like. Depending upon the groups that are selected a first group can be incorporated within second group or alternatively the first group can be pendant i.e. attached to the second group. For example with the phrase an alkyl group comprising an amino group the amino group can be incorporated within the backbone of the alkyl group. Alternatively the amino group can be attached to the backbone of the alkyl group. The nature of the group s that is are selected will determine if the first group is embedded or attached to the second group.

As described herein compounds of the invention may contain optionally substituted moieties. In general the term substituted whether preceded by the term optionally or not means that one or more hydrogens of the designated moiety are replaced with a suitable substituent. Unless otherwise indicated an optionally substituted group may have a suitable substituent at each substitutable position of the group and when more than one position in any given structure may be substituted with more than one substituent selected from a specified group the substituent may be either the same or different at every position. Combinations of substituents envisioned by this invention are preferably those that result in the formation of stable or chemically feasible compounds. In is also contemplated that in certain aspects unless expressly indicated to the contrary individual substituents can be further optionally substituted i.e. further substituted or unsubstituted .

The term stable as used herein refers to compounds that are not substantially altered when subjected to conditions to allow for their production detection and in certain aspects their recovery purification and use for one or more of the purposes disclosed herein.

Suitable monovalent substituents on a substitutable carbon atom of an optionally substituted group are independently halogen CH R CH OR O CH R 0 CH C O OR CH CH OR CH Ph which may be substituted with R CH O CH Ph which may be substituted with R CH CHPh which may be substituted with R CH O CH pyridyl which may be substituted with R N0 CN N CH N R CH N R C O R N R C S R CH N R C O NR N R C S NR CH N R C O OR N R N R C O R N R N R C O NR N R N R C O OR CH C O R C S R CH C O OR CH C O SR CH C O OsiR CH OC O R OC O CH SR SC S SR CH SC O R CH C O NR C S NR C S SR SC S SR CH OC O NR C O N OR R C O C O R C O CHC O R C NOR R CH SSR CH S O R CH S O OR CH OS O R S O NR CH S O R N R S O NR N R S O R N OR R C NH NR P O R P O R OP O R OP O OR SiR Cstraight or branched alkylene O N R or Cstraight or branched alkylene C O ON R wherein each Rmay be substituted as defined below and is independently hydrogen Caliphatic CHPh O CH Ph CH 5 6 membered heteroaryl ring or a 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur or notwithstanding the definition above two independent occurrences of R taken together with their intervening atom s form a 3 12 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl mono or bicyclic ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur which may be substituted as defined below.

Suitable monovalent substituents on R or the ring formed by taking two independent occurrences of Rtogether with their intervening atoms are independently halogen CH R haloR CH OH CH OR CH CH OR O haloR CN N CH C O R CH C O OH CH C O OR CH SR CH SH CH NH CH NHR CH NR NO OSiR C O SR Cstraight or branched alkylene C O OR or SSR wherein each R is unsubstituted or where preceded by halo is substituted only with one or more halogens and is independently selected from Caliphatic CHPh O CH Ph or a 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Suitable divalent substituents on a saturated carbon atom of R include 0 and S.

Suitable divalent substituents on a saturated carbon atom of an optionally substituted group include the following 0 S NNR NNHC O R NNHC O OR NNHS O R NR NOR O C R O or S C R S wherein each independent occurrence of R is selected from hydrogen Caliphatic which may be substituted as defined below or an unsubstituted 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Suitable divalent substituents that are bound to vicinal substitutable carbons of an optionally substituted group include O CR O wherein each independent occurrence of R is selected from hydrogen Caliphatic which may be substituted as defined below or an unsubstituted 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

Suitable substituents on the aliphatic group of R include halogen haloR OH OR O haloR CN C O OH C O OR NH NHR NR or NO wherein each R is unsubstituted or where preceded by halo is substituted only with one or more halogens and is independently Caliphatic CHPh O CH Ph or a 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

Suitable substituents on a substitutable nitrogen of an optionally substituted group include R NR C O R C O OR C O C O R C O CHC O R S O R S O NR C S NR C NH NR or N R S O R wherein each Ris independently hydrogen Caliphatic which may be substituted as defined below unsubstituted OPh or an unsubstituted 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur or notwithstanding the definition above two independent occurrences of R taken together with their intervening atom s form an unsubstituted 3 12 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl mono or bicyclic ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

Suitable substituents on the aliphatic group of R are independently halogen R haloR OH OR O haloR CN C O OH C O OR NH NHR NR or NO wherein each R is unsubstituted or where preceded by halo is substituted only with one or more halogens and is independently Caliphatic CHPh O CH Ph or a 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

The term leaving group refers to an atom or a group of atoms with electron withdrawing ability that can be displaced as a stable species taking with it the bonding electrons. Examples of suitable leaving groups include halides including chloro bromo and iodo and pseudohalides sulfonate esters including triflate mesylate tosylate and brosylate. It is also contemplated that a hydroxyl moiety can be converted into a leaving group via Mitsunobu reaction.

The terms hydrolysable group and hydrolysable moiety refer to a functional group capable of undergoing hydrolysis e.g. under basic or acidic conditions. Examples of hydrolysable residues include without limitation acid halides activated carboxylic acids and various protecting groups known in the art see for example Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis T. W. Greene P. G. M. Wuts Wiley Interscience 1999 .

The term organic residue defines a carbon containing residue i.e. a residue comprising at least one carbon atom and includes but is not limited to the carbon containing groups residues or radicals defined hereinabove. Organic residues can contain various heteroatoms or be bonded to another molecule through a heteroatom including oxygen nitrogen sulfur phosphorus or the like. Examples of organic residues include but are not limited alkyl or substituted alkyls alkoxy or substituted alkoxy mono or di substituted amino amide groups etc. Organic residues can preferably comprise 1 to 18 carbon atoms 1 to 15 carbon atoms 1 to 12 carbon atoms 1 to 8 carbon atoms 1 to 6 carbon atoms or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. In a further aspect an organic residue can comprise 2 to 18 carbon atoms 2 to 15 carbon atoms 2 to 12 carbon atoms 2 to 8 carbon atoms 2 to 4 carbon atoms or 2 to 4 carbon atoms.

A very close synonym of the term residue is the term radical which as used in the specification and concluding claims refers to a fragment group or substructure of a molecule described herein regardless of how the molecule is prepared. In some embodiments the radical for example an alkyl can be further modified i.e. substituted alkyl by having bonded thereto one or more substituent radicals. The number of atoms in a given radical is not critical to the present invention unless it is indicated to the contrary elsewhere herein.

 Organic radicals as the term is defined and used herein contain one or more carbon atoms. An organic radical can have for example 1 26 carbon atoms 1 18 carbon atoms 1 12 carbon atoms 1 8 carbon atoms 1 6 carbon atoms or 1 4 carbon atoms. In a further aspect an organic radical can have 2 26 carbon atoms 2 18 carbon atoms 2 12 carbon atoms 2 8 carbon atoms 2 6 carbon atoms or 2 4 carbon atoms. Organic radicals often have hydrogen bound to at least some of the carbon atoms of the organic radical. In some embodiments an organic radical can contain 1 10 inorganic heteroatoms bound thereto or therein including halogens oxygen sulfur nitrogen phosphorus and the like. Examples of organic radicals include but are not limited to an alkyl substituted alkyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl mono substituted amino di substituted amino acyloxy cyano carboxy carboalkoxy alkylcarboxamide substituted alkylcarboxamide dialkylcarboxamide substituted dialkylcarboxamide alkylsulfonyl alkylsulfinyl thioalkyl thiohaloalkyl alkoxy substituted alkoxy haloalkyl haloalkoxy aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl heterocyclic or substituted heterocyclic radicals wherein the terms are defined elsewhere herein. A few non limiting examples of organic radicals that include heteroatoms include alkoxy radicals trifluoromethoxy radicals acetoxy radicals dimethylamino radicals and the like.

 Inorganic radicals as the term is defined and used herein contain no carbon atoms and therefore comprise only atoms other than carbon. Inorganic radicals comprise bonded combinations of atoms selected from hydrogen nitrogen oxygen silicon phosphorus sulfur selenium and halogens such as fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine which can be present individually or bonded together in their chemically stable combinations. Inorganic radicals have 10 or fewer or preferably one to six or one to four inorganic atoms as listed above bonded together. Examples of inorganic radicals include but not limited to amino hydroxy halogens nitro thiol sulfate phosphate and like commonly known inorganic radicals. The inorganic radicals do not have bonded therein the metallic elements of the periodic table such as the alkali metals alkaline earth metals transition metals lanthanide metals or actinide metals although such metal ions can sometimes serve as a pharmaceutically acceptable cation for anionic inorganic radicals such as a sulfate phosphate or like anionic inorganic radical. Inorganic radicals do not comprise metalloids elements such as boron aluminum gallium germanium arsenic tin lead or tellurium or the noble gas elements unless otherwise specifically indicated elsewhere herein.

Compounds described herein can contain one or more double bonds and thus potentially give rise to cis trans E Z isomers as well as other conformational isomers. Unless stated to the contrary the invention includes all such possible isomers as well as mixtures of such isomers.

Unless stated to the contrary a formula with chemical bonds shown only as solid lines and not as wedges or dashed lines contemplates each possible isomer e.g. each enantiomer and diastereomer and a mixture of isomers such as a racemic or scalemic mixture. Compounds described herein can contain one or more asymmetric centers and thus potentially give rise to diastereomers and optical isomers. Unless stated to the contrary the present invention includes all such possible diastereomers as well as their racemic mixtures their substantially pure resolved enantiomers all possible geometric isomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Mixtures of stereoisomers as well as isolated specific stereoisomers are also included. During the course of the synthetic procedures used to prepare such compounds or in using racemization or epimerization procedures known to those skilled in the art the products of such procedures can be a mixture of stereoisomers.

Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms having the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these compounds called stereoisomers are identical except that they are non superimposable mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer can also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture. Many of the compounds described herein can have one or more chiral centers and therefore can exist in different enantiomeric forms. If desired a chiral carbon can be designated with an asterisk . When bonds to the chiral carbon are depicted as straight lines in the disclosed formulas it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence both enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced within the formula. As is used in the art when it is desired to specify the absolute configuration about a chiral carbon one of the bonds to the chiral carbon can be depicted as a wedge bonds to atoms above the plane and the other can be depicted as a series or wedge of short parallel lines is bonds to atoms below the plane . The Cahn Inglod Prelog system can be used to assign the R or S configuration to a chiral carbon.

Compounds described herein comprise atoms in both their natural isotopic abundance and in non natural abundance. The disclosed compounds can be isotopically labelled or isotopically substituted compounds identical to those described but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number typically found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C N O O S F and Cl respectively. Compounds further comprise prodrugs thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds or of said prodrugs which contain the aforementioned isotopes and or other isotopes of other atoms are within the scope of this invention. Certain isotopically labelled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H and C are incorporated are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are particularly preferred for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H can afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Isotopically labelled compounds of the present invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures below by substituting a readily available isotopically labelled reagent for a non isotopically labelled reagent.

The compounds described in the invention can be present as a solvate. In some cases the solvent used to prepare the solvate is an aqueous solution and the solvate is then often referred to as a hydrate. The compounds can be present as a hydrate which can be obtained for example by crystallization from a solvent or from aqueous solution. In this connection one two three or any arbitrary number of solvate or water molecules can combine with the compounds according to the invention to form solvates and hydrates. Unless stated to the contrary the invention includes all such possible solvates.

The term co crystal means a physical association of two or more molecules which owe their stability through non covalent interaction. One or more components of this molecular complex provide a stable framework in the crystalline lattice. In certain instances the guest molecules are incorporated in the crystalline lattice as anhydrates or solvates see e.g. Crystal Engineering of the Composition of Pharmaceutical Phases. Do Pharmaceutical Co crystals Represent a New Path to Improved Medicines Almarasson O. et. al. The Royal Society of Chemistry 1889 1896 2004. Examples of co crystals include p toluenesulfonic acid and benzenesulfonic acid.

It is also appreciated that certain compounds described herein can be present as an equilibrium of tautomers. For example ketones with an hydrogen can exist in an equilibrium of the keto form and the enol form.

Likewise amides with an N hydrogen can exist in equilibrium of the amide form and the imidic acid form. Unless stated to the contrary the invention includes all such possible tautomers.

It is known that chemical substances form solids which are present in different states of order which are termed polymorphic forms or modifications. The different modifications of a polymorphic substance can differ greatly in their physical properties. The compounds according to the invention can be present in different polymorphic forms with it being possible for particular modifications to be metastable. Unless stated to the contrary the invention includes all such possible polymorphic forms.

Disclosed are the components to be used to prepare the compositions of the invention as well as the compositions themselves to be used within the methods disclosed herein. These and other materials are disclosed herein and it is understood that when combinations subsets interactions groups etc. of these materials are disclosed that while specific reference of each various individual and collective combinations and permutation of these compounds cannot be explicitly disclosed each is specifically contemplated and described herein. For example if a particular compound is disclosed and discussed and a number of modifications that can be made to a number of molecules including the compounds are discussed specifically contemplated is each and every combination and permutation of the compound and the modifications that are possible unless specifically indicated to the contrary. This concept applies to all aspects of this application including but not limited to steps in methods of making and using the compositions of the invention. Thus if there are a variety of additional steps that can be performed it is understood that each of these additional steps can be performed with any specific embodiment or combination of embodiments of the methods of the invention.

In one aspect the invention relates to compounds useful as inhibitors of STAT3 STAT5. In a further aspect the disclosed compounds and products of disclosed methods of making are modulators of STAT3 STAT5 activity. In various aspects the present invention relates to compounds that bind to a STAT3 protein and negatively modulate STAT3 activity. In other various aspects the present invention relates to compounds that bind to a STAT5 protein and negatively modulate STAT5 activity. In a further aspect the disclosed compounds exhibit inhibition of STAT3 5 activity.

In one aspect the compounds of the invention are useful in the treatment of cancer associated with STAT3 STAT5 activity dysfunction such as breast prostate or brain cancer and glioblastoma and other diseases in which a STAT3 5 protein is involved as further described herein.

It is contemplated that each disclosed derivative can be optionally further substituted. It is also contemplated that any one or more derivative can be optionally omitted from the invention. It is understood that a disclosed compound can be provided by the disclosed methods. It is also understood that the disclosed compounds can be employed in the disclosed methods of using.

In an aspect of the disclosure there is provided a focused library of 4 2 phenylsulfonamido acetamido salicylic acid analogs possessing both prodrugs potential bioisosteres as well as functionality deemed appropriate for salicylic acid mimicry. These compounds are tested for their inhibitory activity of STAT5 5. These two proteins have been shown to be involved in various cancers. In will be demonstrated herein that the compounds of the present invention in comparison to other compounds that are known to be useful for treating various cancers are in fact more potent. With consideration for improving cell and BBB permeability prodrugs designed herein were synthesized to conceal either one of or both of the anionic hydroxyl and carboxylic acid of the salicylic group. In this sub family alkyl 39 40 acetoxymethyl AOM 26 pivaloyloxymethyl POM 27 and the acetylated prodrug 22 23 of the salicylic acid were prepared to enhance cell permeability Table 1 . In addition to salicylic acid a phosphotyrosine like phosphonate derivative of 1 was prepared 21 and the prodrug analog 20. For purposes of developing a structure activity relationship the relative ring positions of the hydroxy and carboxylate groups were inversed 38 the hydroxyl substituent replaced with a fluoride 33 43 or removed entirely and replaced with a hydrogen atom 31 42 . The electronegative fluorinated analogs 33 43 were prepared to lower inhibitor polarity by reducing the charge on carboxylate and thus for improving cell permeability. As an additional benefit the hydroxyl group deletion or replacement with fluorine would preclude phase II glucoronidation. To further investigate the role of the salicylic acid in binding STAT3 an N hydroxyl amino 32 44 sulfonamide 12 15 sulfonamine 16 tetrazole 35 41 and N hydoxy oxamic acid 28 46 derivatives were prepared. Selected prodrug analogs of the bioisosteres were also prepared 17 18 . Compounds 12 13 and 36 possessing bulky hydrophobic naphthyl group or benzene respectively lacking the key salicylic acid and were synthesized as negative controls. Chemical synthetic routes toward all compounds shown are reported herein.

First the library was screened for biological activity against a set of three representative GBM BTSCs derived from GBM patients including the very aggressive GBM BTSC lines BTSC73M BTSC30M BTSC68EF. Dissociated BTSC spheres were seeded at 1500 cells 96 well and treated with drug compound or vehicle DMSO one day after plating. Cell viability following drug treatment was assessed after 72 hrs using the ALAMARBLUE assay Invitrogen according to the manufacturer s instructions. All culture experiments were performed in triplicate with a minimum of three wells per condition. ICvalues obtained from the results of these experiments were compared to BP 1 102 compound also referred in these experiments as compound 1 and Cucurbitacin a JAK2 inhibitor and the most potent inhibitor of BTSCs to date as referenced Table 2 .

However poor BBB permeability has negated Cucurbitacin s clinical relevance. Consistent with findings in other tumour cells harbouring activated STAT3 compound 1 exhibited low M activity . Most encouragingly the library prepared exhibited a number of more potent inhibitors that exhibited low nanomolar nM ICcytotoxicity values against BTSCs including unprecedented activity against 73M. Of note the tolyl analogs R tolyl 18 23 42 46 were poorly soluble and exhibited much reduced activity cf the pentafluorobenzene Rcounterparts which gave homogenous solutions. The top four ranked compounds 22 31 32 and 33 which displayed ICvalues ranging from 100 nM to 3.8 M were further investigated against BTSCs 25M 67EF 73EF 84EF and 127EF which represent the molecular heterogeneity of human GBMs . Across all 8 BTSCs evaluated compounds 22 and 31 33 showed remarkable activity with ECs ranging from 66 1145 nM. However of the top four agents evaluated compound 31 equipped with a benzoic acid substituent exhibited significantly higher potency against a larger number of BTSCs. Most notably against 127EF 31 with an EC66 33.9 nM represents the most potent small molecule inhibitor of a BTSC more potent even than Cucurbitacin EC 630 nM and 700 nM v.s. 30M and 73M respectively .

Given the nM cytoxicity these compounds were assayed for biological effects in healthy cells. A series of normal human fetal astrocytes HF 2003 HF 2006 HF 2009 HF 2013 were subjected to top three inhibitors at concentrations up to 5 M 10 20 fold higher than reported ICs against BTSCs . As shown in compounds 22 31 and 32 showed minimal toxicity at concentrations of up to 5 M in normal human cells identifying a clear therapeutic window for these agents in GBM.

Next to confirm retention of STAT3 binding affinity surface plasmon resonance SPR binding experiments were performed using a ProteOn XPR36 Bio rad . Briefly full length His tagged STAT3 protein SignalChem was immobilized onto THE sensor chip bio Rad Ontario Canada . To determine the kinetic association and dissociation rate constants kand k drug protein binding was evaluated at varying concentrations. Most encouragingly all four compounds exhibited potent nM binding potencies . Compound 31 was shown to be the most potent binder with a K k k 300 27 nM. Thus with the results reported above when compared to what exists in the prior art compound 31 represents the most potent non phosphorylated STAT3 inhibitor reported to date with low nM Kvalues against STAT3 protein. Studies reported on were done at multiple concentrations i.e. 5.000 1.667 0.556 and 0.185 M.

Next to examine disruption of phosphopeptide STAT3 SH2 domain complexation events compounds were subjected to a fluorescence polarization FP assay as previously reported by Schust J. et al. 330 114 118 2004 and Wu P. et al. 249 29 36 1997 . Briefly fluorescein labeled peptide probe 5 FAM GpYLPQTV NH CanPeptide was incubated with STAT3 protein SignalChem and inhibitor for 30 minutes and then analyzed on a Tecan M1000 fluorimeter Tecan . Polarized fluorescence was plotted against concentration of inhibitor and ICvalues determined by fitting to a dose response curve. Relative to compound 1 many of the new derivatives showed improved binding activity. As expected in an extracellular setting prodrug analogs 17 20 22 26 27 and 39 40 displayed no binding activity. In addition negative control 36 lacking the salicylic acid binding group showed no disruption of the STAT3 phosphopeptide interaction. Compounds possessing the neutral amidosulfonamide substituent exhibited lower inhibitory potency. Substitution with a hydroxyl amine 32 showed marked improvements in inhibitory potency. Finally and in good agreement with SPR data compound 27 was the most potent inhibitor of STAT3. In addition 31 displayed a 5 fold selectivity for STAT3 and STAT5 over STAT1 which has anti tumor roles.

Cellular levels of activated STAT3 activity were determined using Western blot analyses for phosphorylated STAT3 including Y705 as well as pSTAT3 5727 and downstream target genes Bcl xL and Cyclin Dl. Blockade of the STAT3 SH2 domain should not inhibit S727 phosphorylation only Y705. For protein analysis following drug treatment BTSC spheres were dissociated to single cells and 1 10cells were treated with drug or vehicle DMSO at different concentrations and time points. 15 g of protein were loaded on 7.5 or 10 SDS PAGE gels and trans blotted to nitrocellulose membranes. Blots were stained with antibodies phospho Y705 phospho S727 Bcl xL cyclin D1 PARP and Actin. Bands were visualized with the ECL PLUS Western Blotting Detection System and HYPERFILM Amersham . Most encouragingly at 1 M the top four compounds exhibited potent suppression of pSTAT3 Y705 with no effect on the total STAT3 concentrations or on pSTAT3 S727 levels . In addition off target effects were not observed against kinase targets including MAPK or EGFR as well as structural protein tubulin. Notably compounds 22 31 and 32 showed the most suppression of pSTAT3 Y705 . To determine whether the observed biological responses were STAT3 concentration dependant and further to establish the exact pSTAT3 inhibition potency selected BTSCs were treated to varying concentrations of lead inhibitors 0 0.1 0.5 1.0 and 5.0 M and lysates subjected to Western Blot analysis. Most encouragingly dose dependent decreases in pSTAT3 levels were observed as well as potent inhibition of downstream targets involved in cell growth and survival Cyclin D1 and Bcl xL. Most notably compound 31 the most potent compound against BTSCs exhibited concentration dependant decreases in pSTAT3 levels that correlated well with observed cytotoxicity and downstream target suppression. Specifically treatment with compound 31 at 500 nM completely silenced pSTAT3 signalling. Compounds 22 and 32 whilst slightly less potent still exhibited nM inhibition of pSTAT3.

To further evaluate potential off target effects compounds 22 31 and 32 were screened in vitro for activity against five cancer related kinases c Src ERK1 AKT JaK1 and JaK2 at 5 M 10 15 fold higher than reported ICs against BTSCs . Briefly this assay employs a radiometric detection system to measure kinase phosphoryl transfer activity. The top three inhibitors exhibited moderate to negligible activity against the bank of kinases. For example all three compounds showed negligible inhibition of Akt1 Erk1 and JaK1 whilst only exhibiting modest inhibition of c Src and JaK2 50 inhibition of kinase activity . Thus since the concentration of inhibitor required to elicit effective kinase inhibition was 15 fold higher than the ICvalues in BTSCs It thus shows that the biological activity was not a result of upstream JaK kinase inhibition.

To more comprehensively investigate potential off target effects 31 was subjected to a kinome screen 101 diverse kinases DISCOVERX KINOMEscan as well as a protein and receptor screen 21 biologically important G protein coupled receptors GPCRs . For kinome screening kinases labelled with DNA were treated with compound 31 500 nM and incubated with an immobilized ligand designed to capture the target kinase. Ultra sensitive quantitative PCR qPCR was used to measure levels of immobilized kinases after treatment with compound 31. The immobilized kinase levels were compared to control samples and hits were designated when the quantity of the seized kinase fell below a 35 threshold. The GPCR screening employed the widely applied PathHunter arrestin GPCR assay platform DISCOVERX to evaluate the activity of compound 31. The GPCRs are widely regarded as a most important family of membrane receptors due to their master regulatory role in intracellular signal transduction. As a result GPCRs are among the most heavily investigated drug targets in the pharmaceutical industry. Encouragingly compound 32 showed no off target activity against any of the 21 GPCRs tested 500 nM . Moreover compound 31 at same concentration 500 nM showed negligible effects against the representative family of kinases including a large number of both SH2 JaK1 and JaK2 and SH3 Fes Fer Fyn domain containing kinases. Lack of off target kinase activity is illustrated in the TreeSpot dendrogram . Since there exists an estimated 117 SH2 and 300 SH3 domains it was important that compound 31 display relative selectivity for the target STAT3 SH2 domain minimizing undesired off target biological effects. Taken together compound 31 exhibited unprecedented cytotoxicity across a range of human BTSCs exhibited no toxicity in human fetal astrocytes at concentrations 15 20 fold higher than ICs potently suppressed pSTAT3 at nM concentrations correlating well with in vitro nM Kvalues SPR inhibited STAT3 s downstream targets and showed no discernible off target effects at therapeutic doses as assessed by kinome and GPCR screens.

Finally to establish inhibitors clinical relevance compound 31 s activity was compared against a leading JaK2 inhibitor WP1066 in 73M one of the most aggressive BTSC . Comparative Western blot analyses demonstrated equipotent pSTAT3 suppression at 1 M inhibitor concentrations. However it should be noted that upstream JaK kinase inhibitors have suffered from lack of kinase selectivity and poor in vivo efficacy including blood brain barrier permeability. As noted previously the compounds reported herein do not inhibit the JaKs at therapeutic doses and appear to function through STAT3 direct inhibition.

In summary the most potent non phosphorylated direct binding STAT3 SH2 domain inhibitors has been synthesized and tested herein. Moreover their application in GBM BTSCs recently reported to harbor high levels of hyperactivated STAT3 which critically has been shown to be the major driver in brain cancer tumourogenesis and BTSC drug resistance has been validated. Compound 31 displayed the highest STAT3 binding affinity for a non phosphorylated drug like small molecule inhibitor SPR K 315 nM and it was shown to effectively disrupt STAT3 phosphopeptide interactions. Additionally in whole cell studies the inhibitors presented herein effectively suppress STAT3 phosphorylation and its downstream protein targets Cyclin D1 and Bcl xL . The potential of STAT3 inhibitors have now been clearly demonstrated for the first time for the treatment of BTSCs and its clinical efficacy for GBM clinical application.

Having brought light herein on new potent STAT3 inhibitors where mimetics of the salicylic acid were tested. However the inventors have also tested other STAT3 inhibitors as reported in WO2012 018868. These specific compounds are substituents on Rfrom formula 1 above. However having already defined position R Rand R and showed that the compounds obtained were STAT3 inhibitors the person skilled in the art will also appreciate with the present invention that in addition to the modifications suggested on Rherein the other substitutions as suggested in WO2012 018868 would also produce a compound with STAT3 inhibiting activity. It will however be appreciated that the modifications suggested herein provide new compounds having much better inhibiting activity against STAT3.

It will be appreciated that the amount of a compound of the invention required for use in treatment will vary not only with the particular compound selected but also with the route of administration the nature of the condition for which treatment is required and the age and condition of the patient and will be ultimately at the discretion of the attendant physician. Generally the amount administered will be empirically determined typically in the range of about 10 g to 100 mg kg body weight of the recipient.

The desired dose may conveniently be presented in a single dose or as divided dose administered at appropriate intervals for example as two three four or more doses per day.

Pharmaceutical compositions include without limitation those suitable for oral including buccal and sub lingual transdermal or parenteral including intramuscular sub cutaneous and intravenous administration or in a form suitable for administration by inhalation.

The formulations may where appropriate be conveniently presented in discrete dosage units and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. The methods for preparing a pharmaceutical composition can include the steps of bringing into association the compound as defined herein and pharmaceutically acceptable excipients and then if necessary shaping the product into the desired formulation including applying a coating when desired.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for oral administration may conveniently be presented as discrete units such as capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient as a powder or granules as a solution a suspension or as an emulsion. Tablets and capsules for oral administration may contain conventional excipients such as binding agents fillers lubricants disintegrants or wetting agents. The tablets may be coated according to methods well known in the art. Oral liquid preparations may be in the form of for example aqueous or oily suspensions solutions emulsions syrups or elixirs or may be presented as a dry product for constitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations may contain conventional additives such as suspending agents emulsifying agents non aqueous vehicles which may include edible oils or preservatives.

The compounds and combinations as defined herein may also be formulated for parenteral administration e.g. by injection for example bolus injection or continuous infusion and may be presented in unit dose form in ampoules pre filled syringes small volume infusion or in multi dose containers with an added preservative. The compositions may take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents. Alternatively the active ingredient may be in powder form obtained by aseptic isolation of sterile solid or by lyophilisation from solution for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile water or saline before use.

Compositions suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavoured base usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert base such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

For administration by inhalation the compounds and combinations as defined herein may take the form of a dry powder composition for example a powder mix of the compound and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch. The powder composition may be presented in unit dosage form in for example capsules or cartridges or e.g. gelatin or blister packs from which the powder may be administered with the aid of an inhalator or insufflator.

The compounds as defined herein may include a chiral center which gives rise to enantiomers. The compounds may thus exist in the form of two different optical isomers that is or enantiomers. All such enantiomers and mixtures thereof including racemic or other ratio mixtures of individual enantiomers are included within the scope of the invention. The single enantiomer can be obtained by methods well known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as chiral HPLC enzymatic resolution and chiral auxiliary derivatization.

It will also be appreciated that the compounds in accordance with the present disclosure can contain more than one chiral centre. The compounds of the present invention may thus exist in the form of different diastereomers. All such diastereomers and mixtures thereof are included within the scope of the invention. The single diastereomer can be obtained by methods well known in the art such as HPLC crystallization and chromatography.

The term Solvate means that a compound as defined herein incorporates one or more pharmaceutically acceptable solvents including water to give rise to hydrates. The solvate may contain one or more molecules of solvent per molecule of compound or may contain one or more molecules of compound per molecule of solvent. Illustrative non limiting examples of hydrates include monohydrate dihydrate trihydrate and tetrahydrate or semi hydrate. In one embodiment the solvent may be held in the crystal in various ways and thus the solvent molecule may occupy lattice positions in the crystal or they may form bonds with salts of the compounds as described herein. The solvate s must be acceptable in the sense of not being deleterious to the recipient thereof. The solvation may be assessed by methods known in the art such as Loss on Drying techniques LOD .

The compounds of the present disclosure can be prepared according to the procedures denoted in the following reaction Schemes 1 and 2 and Examples or modifications thereof using readily available starting materials reagents and conventional procedures or variations thereof well known to a practitioner of ordinary skill in the art of synthetic organic chemistry. Specific definitions of variables in the Schemes are given for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the procedures described.

In Scheme 1 a BnBr KOtBu DMF 0 C. R.T. 5 h then BnBr KOtBu DMF 0 C. RT 16 h 61 b BnBr KOtBu DMF 0 C. R.T. 16 h 74 c Aldehyde AcOH 4 MS MeOH 45 C. 3 h 2. NaCNBH RT 12 h 74 91 d Aldehyde AcOH 4 MS CHCHCl 30 min then Na OAc BH RT 12 h 77 98 e CFSOCl or p TsCl DIPEA CHCN 0 C. RT 1 h 92 95 f DCM TFA 2 1 RT 1 h 95 g LiOH.H2O THF H2O 3 1 RT 1 h 80 85 h PPhCl 100 C. Microwave assisted heating CHCl 30 min 60 87 i COCl DMF DIPEA CHCl R.T 16 h 71 80 . p TsCl para toluenesulfonyl chloride DIPEA N N diisopropylethylamine DMF N N dimethylformamide TFA Trifluoroacetic acid COCl oxalyl chloride THF tetrahydrofuran LiOH.H2O lithium hydroxide hydrate.

In scheme 2 j SnCl.2HO MeOH reflux 16 hr 78 k R SOCl Pyridine DCM 0 C. R.T. 16 h 81 1 H2 10 Pd C MeOH THF 1 1 RT 1 16 h 85 99 . SnCl.2HO Stannous chloride dihydrate DCM Dichloromethane.

Anhydrous solvents methanol DMSO CHCl THF and DMF were used directly from their Sure Seal bottles and were purchased from Sigma Aldrich. 4 molecular sieves also purchased from Sigma Aldrich were activated by heating to 300 C. under vacuum overnight. All reactions were performed in oven dried glassware and were monitored for completeness by thin layer chromatography TLC using silica gel visualized by UV light or developed by treatment with KMnOstain or Hanessian s stain . A 400 MHz Bruker NMR was utilized to obtain H and C NMR spectra in CDCl CDOD or d DMSO. All NMR Chemical shifts are reported in parts per million after calibrations to residual isotopic solvent and coupling constants J are reported in Hz. Inhibitor purity was evaluated by a Water s reversed phase HPLC rpHPLC prior to biological testing. Analysis by rpHPLC was performed using a Microsorb MV 300 C18 250 mm 4.6 mm column with eluent flow set at 1 mL min and using gradient mixtures of A water with 0.1 TFA and B an acetonitrile solution containing 10 HO and 0.1 TFA. Ligand purity was confirmed using linear gradients from 50 A and 50 B to 100 B after an initial 2 minute period of 100 A and a second linear gradient of 100 A to 100 B. The linear gradient consisted of a changing solvent composition of either I 5.2 per minute and UV detection at 254 nm or II 1.8 per minute and detection at 254 nm each ending with 5 minutes of 100 B. When reporting the HPLC results retention times for each condition are written followed by their purities in their respective order. Biologically evaluated compounds are 95 chemical purity as measured by HPLC. Traces of the HPLC results are provided in supporting information.

To a stirred solution of amino benzyl alcohols or 4 aminobenzoic acid 1.0 eq in DMF 0.1 M at 0 C. was added KOtBu 1.1 eq . After 15 mins benzyl bromide 1.1 eq was added drop wise and the reaction left to stir over night before quenching with HO. The solution was then repeatedly extracted with ethyl acetate and the organics were combined. The organics were then washed with HO and brine then concentrated dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified using the Biotage Isolera automated column chromotographer in a gradient of EtOAc and Hexane and then dried under reduced pressure.

To a stirred solution of 4 aminosalicyclic acid 6.00 g 39.2 mmol in DMF 0.1 M at 0 C. was added KOtBu 4.84 g 43.2 mmol . After 15 mins benzyl bromide 5.14 mL 43.2 mmol was added drop wise. The suspension was allowed to stir at R.T. for a further 4 hrs before the reaction vessel was again cooled to 0 C. A further 1.1 eqs of KtOBu 2.84 g 43.2 mmol were added prior to the drop wise addition of benzyl bromide 5.14 mL 43.2 mmol . The reaction was then stirred overnight before quenching with HO. The solution was then repeatedly extracted with ethyl acetate and the organics combined. The organics were then washed with HO and brine then concentrated dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified using the Biotage Isolera automated column chromotographer in a gradient of EtOAc and Hexane and then dried under reduced pressure.

To a solution of primary aniline 1 eq and acetic acid 1.1 eq stirred in anhydrous MeOH 0.1 M with 4 mol. sieves was added 4 cyclohexylbenzaldehyde 1.5 eq . The solution was then heated to 45 C. for 3 hr and then allowed to cool to rt. Next NaCNBH 1.5 eq was added and the reaction allowed to stir at rt overnight. When TLC indicated the reaction was complete the reaction was concentrated in vacuo and absorbed directly onto silica for column chromatography purification using a gradient of EtOAc and Hexane.

To a solution of primary aniline 1 eq and acetic acid 1.1 eq stirred in anhydrous dichloroethane 0.1 M with 4 mol. sieves was added 4 cyclohexylbenzaldehyde 1.5 eq . The solution was then stirred at rt for 5 mins after which Na OAc BH 1.5 eq was added and the reaction allowed to stir at rt overnight. When TLC indicated the reaction was complete the reaction was concentrated in vacuo and absorbed directly onto silica for column chromatography purification using a gradient of EtOAc and Hexane.

A solution of the methyl amino 1 eq and DIPEA 3 eq were dissolved in anhydrous acetonitrile and cooled to 0 C. before 2 3 4 5 6 pentafluorobenzene 1 sulfonyl chloride or TsCl 1.1 eq was added to yield the desired product. The resultant solution was allowed to stir overnight at R.T. The solvent was removed and the residue redissolved in CHCl. The organics were then washed sequentially with 0.1 M HCl saturated NaHCOand brine. The organics were then dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo to furnish 6a or 6b. The material was carried forward without any purification.

A solution of 6a was dissolved in TFA and immediately diluted with DCM to form a 1 1 TFA DCM 0.1 M solution. Reaction was stirred for one hour at R.T. and then co evaporated with MeOH 3 then CHCl 4 to near dryness. The residue was re dissolved up in EtOAc and Hexanes wet loaded onto a Biotage Isolera column and purified using a gradient of MeOH and DCM.

Methyl or ethyl esters 1.0 eq were dissolved in a 3 1 mixture of THF HO. Then LiOH 1.1 eq was added and after 30 minutes the reaction was confirmed to be complete by TLC. The reaction mixture was diluted with water acidified pH 5.5 by KHPO and continuously extracted into EtOAc. Organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. Reaction was purified by flash column chromatography using an isocratic solvent system 35 7 1 DCM MeOH HO .

To a stirred solution of the acid 1.1 eq in CHCl 0.1 M was added PPhCl 2.5 eq . After five minutes of stirring at R.T. the amine 1.0 eq was added in one portion and the reaction was heated in the microwave at 125 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and absorbed directly onto silica for column chromatography purification using a gradient of EtOAc and Hexane.

To a solution of the acid 1.0 eq in anhydrous CHCl 0.1 M at 0 C. was added oxalyl chloride 1.2 eq followed by a drop of DMF. The reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hr under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen gas before it was stopped and concentrated in vacuo. The reaction was then resumed by re dissolving in anhydrous CHCl 0.1 M . After 5 mins of stirring the amine 1.2 eq and triethylamine 2.5 eq was added to the reaction at 0 C. and stirred for two hours at R.T. The reaction was then quenched with HO and the aqueous layer was extracted repeatedly into ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were then washed with brine and driver over NaSOand the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate to afford the desired product.

A stirred solution of name of the nitro 143 mg 0.4 mmol and Tin II Chloride dihydrate 445 mg 1.97 mmol in DCM MeOH 2 1 0.1 M was heated at 70 C. until determined to be complete by TLC. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and diluted with water and repeatedly extracted with ethyl acetate. The collected organic layers were then combined washed with saturated NaHCOand dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The material was purified using a Biotage Isolera in a gradient of 50 EtOAc Hexanes to afford a white solid 91 .

The free amine functionality was dissolved in mixture of 1 1 DCM Pyridine 0.1 M and cooled to 0 C. The desired sulfonyl chloride or ethyl 2 chloro 2 oxoacetate was added drop wise and the reaction stirred until deemed complete by TLC. The solvent was evaporated and the resulting residue was adsorbed onto silica gel from CHCland columned using a Biotage Isolera in a gradient of EtOAc Hexanes.

The benzyl protected 1 eq acid alcohol or salicylic acid was dissolved in a stirred solution of MeOH THF 1 2 0.1 M . The solution was thoroughly degassed and 10 Pd C 10 mg mmol was carefully added to the reaction. Hgas was bubbled through the solvent for 5 mins before the reaction was put under an atmosphere of Hgas and stirred continuously for 3 hrs. The Hgas was evacuated and the reaction filtered through celite to remove the Pd catalyst and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was adsorbed onto silica gel from CHCland columned using a Biotage Isolera in a gradient of MeOH and DCM.

To a solution of the acid 50 mg 0.09 mmol in anhydrous THF 1 mL at 0 C. was added oxalyl chloride 25.6 M 0.32 mmol and a drop of DMF. The reaction was stirred at 0 C. for two hours and then concentrated under vacuo and placed under high vacuum for 15 minutes. The reaction was then resumed by re dissolving in THF 1 mL followed by the addition of O Benzylhydroxylamine 21.7 M 0.18 mmol and triethylamine 52 M 0.37 mmol . The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 1 hr and then quenched with HO and the aqueous layer was extracted repeatedly intro ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were then washed with brine and driver over NaSOand the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel 50 hexanes ethyl acetate to afford the desired product 13 as a white solid 51 mg 79 .

Iodotrimethylsilane 11.94 M 0.084 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of phosphonate 30 mg 0.042 mmol and bis timethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide 11.25 M 0.046 mmol in anhydrous DCM at 0 C. The reaction mixture was kept under nitrogen and stirred for 1 hr at 0 C. and slowly brought to room temperature and stirred for an additional 1 hr. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and purified via HPLC to yield the desired product 20 mg 74 .

A drop of concentrated sulphuric acid was added to a solution of the desired salicylic acid 30 mg 0.05 mmol in acetic anhydride 0.5 ml at 0 C. and under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at R.T until complete by TLC after which the reaction was cooled to 0 C. and quenched with ice cold water. The material was concentrated in vacuo and purified by column chromatography on silica gel 5 Methanol Dichloromethane to afford the acetylated product 21 mg 60 .

A mixture of 4 aminobenzonitrile 100 mg 0.85 mmol sodium azide 110.2 mg 1.69 mmol DMF 8.5 mL and ammonium chloride 45.3 mg 0.85 mmol was heated in an oil bath for 24 h at 125 C. When the reaction was deemed complete by TLC the mixture was acidified with 1N HCL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 . The combined ethyl acetate was washed with brine and dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give the crude product. The tetrazole compound was purified by column chromatography on silica gel 90 CHCl MeOH to yield the desired product 102 mg 74 .

SOCl 5 eq was added dropwise to a cooled solution of 4 amino benzoic acid 1 eq in alcohol MeOH or EtOH . The reaction mixture was then stirred at R.T. for 30 minutes.

When determined to be complete by TLC the reaction was concentrated in vacuo and absorbed directly onto silica for column chromatography purification.

The free acid 1.0 eq was dissolved up in anhydrous DMF. Re distilled DIPEA 2.1 eq was added in a single portion followed by the addition of iodomethyl pivalate or bromomethyl acetate 2.0 eq . Reaction was covered with tin foil and allowed to react at R.T. for 24 hours. At this point the reaction was diluted with water and repeatedly extracted into EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrated product was re dissolved in the HPLC solution condition B. This solution was purified using preparative HPLC and immediately lyophilized from the eluent solution.

Compound 5a was synthesized according to general procedure a yielding the final product 5a as a white solid 93 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.37 s 9H CH 3.03 s 3H CH 4.10 s 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 27.5 35.3 51.5 82.8 115.6 136.4 144.8 145.9 167.0 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 376.06 found 376.09.

Compound 5b was synthesized according to general procedure a yielding the final product 5b as a white solid 91 . 400 MHz d CDCl 2.42 s 3H CH 2.87 s 3H CH 3.65 s 3H CH 3.96 s 2H CH 7.30 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.68 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.1 35.2 50.3 52.0 126.9 134.6 143.0 168.3 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 258.08 found 258.29.

Compound 6a was synthesized according to general procedure a yielding the final product 6a as a brown solid 95 . 400 MHz d CDCl 2.86 s 3H CH 4.10 s 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 35.4 51.8 115.3 136.4 144.8 145.9 167.1 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 320.00 found 319.97.

Compound 6b was synthesized according to general procedure g yielding the final product 6b as a white solid 84 . 400 MHz d CDCl 2.32 s 3H CH 2.76 s 3H CH 3.86 s 2H CH 7.21 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.68 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 20.8 35.1 50.0 126.7 129.0 134.2 143.1 172.9 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 244.06 found 244.28.

Compound 3a was synthesized according to general procedure a yielding the final product 3a as an orange solid 71 . 400 MHz d CDCl 4.13 brs 2H NH 5.05 s 2H CH 5.35 s 2H CH 6.19 6.23 m 2H CH 7.31 7.49 m 10H CH 7.81 7.86 m 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 65.8 70.3 99.1 106.7 108.8 126.9 127.6 127.8 128.0 128.4 134.4 136.6 136.7 152.5 160.8 165.8 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO Na 356.13 found 356.33.

Compound 3b was synthesized according to general procedure a yielding the final product 3b as a yellow solid 75 . 400 MHz d CDCl 4.21 brs 2H NH 5.10 s 2H CH 5.33 s 2H CH 7.35 7.48 m 10H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 67.1 70.8 100.1 105.4 110.2 126.4 127.3 127.9 128.2 128.1 134.8 136.3 136.5 152.5 160.2 165.7 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO Na 356.13 found 356.14.

Compound 3c was synthesized according to general procedure b yielding the final product 3c as a white solid 82 . 400 MHz d CDCl 4.25 brs 2H NH 5.38 s 2H CH 6.63 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 7.33 7.51 m 5H CH 7.96 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 66.1 113.7 118.9 127.9 128.0 128.7 131.7 136.6 151.5 166.6 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO Na 250.08 found 250.07.

Compound 3d was synthesized according to general procedure b yielding the final product 3d as a white solid 98 . 400 MHz d CDCl 4.15 brs 2H NH 5.34 s 2H CH 6.31 6.36 m 1H CH 6.38 6.43 m 1H CH 7.28 7.45 m 5H CH 7.76 7.82 m 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 66.1 113.7 118.9 127.9 128.0 128.7 131.7 136.6 151.5 166.6 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNO Na 268.07 found 268.06.

Compound 3e was synthesized according to general procedure b yielding the final product 3e as a grey solid 84 . 400 MHz d CDCl 3.66 brs 2H NH 5.03 s 2H CH 6.29 6.35 m 2H CH 6.38 6.44 m 2H CH 7.03 7.1 m 1H CH 7.29 7.45 m 5H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 68.1 114.2 116.6 125.0 127.5 127.5 127.9 128.1 136.9 LRMS ES Calcd for CHN0 H 199.19 found 199.23.

Compound 3f was synthesized according to general procedure b yielding the final product 3f as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 3.66 brs 2H NH 5.03 s 2H CH 6.29 6.34 m 2H CH 6.38 6.43 m 1H CH 7.03 7.1 m 1H CH 7.31 7.45 m 5H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 70.9 102.7 105.6 107.3 126.5 127.5 127.7 128.1 130.1 151.2 160.4 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO H 199.19 found 199.23.

Compound 4a was synthesized according to general procedure c yielding the final product 4a as an orange solid 81 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.25 1.48 m 5H CH 1.73 1.94 m 5H CH 2.48 2.52 m 1H CH 4.30 s 2H CH 5.05 s 2H CH 5.35 s 2H CH 6.68 6.75 m 1H CH 6.19 6.23 m 2H CH 6.86 6.92 m 1H CH 7.16 7.22 m 2H CH 7.30 7.48 m 10H CH 7.37 7.4 m 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.1 26.6 34.3 44.1 47.1 65.5 70.2 97.3 104.9 108.1 125.9 126.8 127.2 127.4 127.5 127.8 128.1 128.3 133.9 134.8 135.2 136.6 136.8 147.3 152.8 160.6 165.7 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO Na 528.65 found 528.35.

Compound 4b was synthesized according to general procedure c yielding the final product 4b as an orange solid 86 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.29 1.49 m 5H CH 1.72 1.95 m 5H CH 2.44 2.56 in 1H CH 4.25 s 2H CH 5.05 s 2H CH 5.4 s 2H CH 6.68 6.75 m 1H CH 6.86 6.92 m 1H CH 7.16 7.22 m 3H CH 7.25 7.36 m 10H CH 7.37 7.4 m 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.1 26.8 34.4 44.2 48.6 66.6 72.2 115.6 116.8 117.6 121.7 126.9 127.2 127.5 127.9 128.1 128.3 128.6 136.1 136.3 137.2 142.4 147.2 150.5 166.6 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO Na 528.65 found 528.35.

Compound 4c was synthesized according to general procedure d yielding the final product 4c as a white solid 88 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.48 m 5H CH 1.71 1.93 m 5H CH 2.42 2.55 m 1H CH 4.35 s 2H CH 5.36 s 2H CH 6.87 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.10 7.16 m 4H CH 7.33 7.47 m 5H CH 8.10 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.2 26.5 34.1 44.1 46.8 66.9 126.9 128.2 128.2 128.4 128.5 128.4 131.3 133.4 135.1 147.8 165.1 165.7 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO H 399.22 found 399.16.

Compound 4d was synthesized according to general procedure d yielding the final product 4d as a white solid 98 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.49 m 5H CH 1.72 1.95 m 5H CH 2.48 2.56 m 1H CH 4.31 s 2H CH 4.72 brs 1H NH 5.34 s 2H CH 6.27 6.32 m 1H CH 6.36 6.41 m 1H CH 7.22 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.27 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.32 7.49 m 5H CH 7.78 7.84 m 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.9 26.8 34.3 44.1 47.3 65.9 106.2 108.3 127.2 127.4 127.8 128.4 133.4 134.9 136.4 147.6 153.5 153.6 162.9 164.3 165.6 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNO H 418.21 found 419.38.

Compound 4e was synthesized according to general procedure c yielding the final product 4e as a yellow solid 86 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.32 1.50 m 5H CH 1.29 1.48 m 5H CH 2.43 2.56 m 1H CH 4.25 s 2H CH 5.01 s 2H CH 6.58 6.65 m 2H CH 6.84 6.90 m 2H CH 7.20 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.31 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 7.33 7.46 m 5H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.2 26.9 34.5 44.3 49.0 70.9 113.9 116.2 127.0 127.5 127.6 127.7 128.5 136.9 137.7 142.9 147.1 151.4 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO H 371.23 found 372.25.

Compound 4f was synthesized according to general procedure d yielding the final product 4f as a yellow solid 76 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.22 1.42 m 5H CH 1.71 1.91 m 5H CH 2.43 2.54 m 1H CH 4.26 s 2H CH 5.01 s 2H CH 6.27 6.33 m 2H CH 6.35 6.40 m 1H CH 7.06 7.13 m 1H CH 7.19 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.28 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.31 7.45 m 5H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.2 26.5 34.1 44.1 49.5 70.1 103.1 106.8 106.9 114.1 116.4 127.3 127.5 127.6 127.7 128.5 136.9 137.7 147.1 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO H 371.23 found 372.28.

Compound 4g was synthesized according to general procedure d yielding the final product 4g as a white solid 88 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.31 1.42 m 5H CH 1.74 1.89 m 5H CH 2.41 2.50 m 1H CH 4.94 s 2H CH 5.31 s 4H CH 7.01 7.14 m 4H CH 7.37 7.52 m 10H CH 7.81 7.86 m 2H CH 8.42 s 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.1 26.5 34.1 35.1 49.1 67.2 68.1 116.1 118.5 119.1 126.1 126.3 127.1 127.5 127.9 138.4 138.7 141.2 144.3 147.5 161.4 166.1 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO H 534.32 found 534.17.

Compound 4h was synthesized according to general procedure c yielding the final product 4h as a yellow oil 78 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.24 t J 7.1 Hz 6H CH 1.34 1.45 m 5H CH 1.70 1.89 m 5H CH 2.43 2.54 m 1H CH 3.01 s 3H CH 3.10 s 1H CH 3.16 s 1H CH 3.93 4.04 m 4H CH 4.25 m 2H CH 6.58 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 7.10 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.17 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.27 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 16.2 16.3 26.0 26.8 44.2 48.0 61.8 61.9 112.9 113.0 126.9 127.5 130.4 130.5 136.5 147.0 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOP H 416.24 found 416.32.

Compound 4i was synthesized according to procedure d yielding the final product 4i as white solid 89 . 400 MHz d MeOD 1.23 1.45 m 5H CH 1.71 1.91 m 5H CH 2.45 2.55 m 1H CH 4.31 d J 5.3 Hz 2H CH 4.71 brs 1H NH 6.55 d J 8.8 Hz 2H CH 7.20 7.28 m 4H CH 8.10 d J 8.8 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCO 113.1 121.5 126.6 143.2 154.3 LRMS ES Calcd for CHN H 334.20 found 334.31.

Compound 4j was synthesized according to general procedure c yielding the final product 4j as a yellow solid 85 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.21 1.47 m 5H CH 1.72 1.92 m 5H CH 2.45 2.57 m 1H CH 4.28 d J 5.3 Hz 2H CH 4.78 brs 1H NH 6.57 d J 8.9 Hz 2H CH 7.19 7.29 m 4H CH 8.10 d J 8.9 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.2 26.1 34.1 43.2 48.7 113.5 126.2 127.5 128.5 136.9 137.7 145.1 154.4 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNO H 311.16 found 311.21.

Compound 4k was synthesized according to general procedure c yielding the final product 4k as a brown solid 81 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.47 m 5H CH 1.64 1.91 m 5H CH 2.37 2.54 m 1H CH 3.91 s 3H CH 4.32 s 2H CH 6.79 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.01 7.14 m 4H CH 7.89 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.2 26.1 34.3 43.6 48.1 51.8 112.3 122.1 126.4 128.1 131.2 137.3 147.6 152.4 165.8 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO Na 346.18 found 345.88.

Compound 41 was synthesized according to general procedure c yielding the final product 41 as a white solid 81 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.24 1.46 m 8H CH 1.64 1.91 m 5H CH 2.38 2.54 m 1H CH 4.31 q J 7.1 Hz 2H CH 4.32 s 2H CH 6.64 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.01 7.14 m 4H CH 7.86 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 14.3 25.4 26.1 34.5 44.1 48.1 60.3 112.3 122.1 126.4 128.1 131.8 136.9 147.6 151.4 166.8 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO Na 360.19 found 359.89.

Compound 7a was synthesized according to general procedure d yielding the final product 7a as a yellow oil 81 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.33 1.41 m 5H CH 1.70 1.85 m 5H CH 2.42 2.51 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.84 s 2H CH 4.47 s 2H CH 4.76 s 2H CH 5.38 s 2H CH 6.43 s 1H CH 6.68 d J 8.0 Hz 1H CH 6.95 d J 7.0 Hz 2H CH 7.10 d J 7.2 Hz 2H CH 7.30 7.41 m 10H CH 7.85 dd J 8.0 and 1.2 Hz 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.1 26.7 34.3 35.3 44.2 51.9 52.7 67.1 70.7 112.0 114.1 115.9 119.8 121.0 127.1 127.2 128.1 128.3 128.5 128.6 128.7 133.3 133.4 135.6 135.7 137.8 141.6 142.9 144.2 147.9 158.7 165.2 165.8 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 807.84 found 807.79.

Compound 7b was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 7b as an orange solid 68 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.33 1.43 m 5H CH 1.72 1.89 m 5H CH 2.42 2.52 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.94 s 2H CH 4.67 s 2H CH 5.15 s 2H CH 5.33 s 2H CH 6.93 6.99 m 4H CH 7.06 7.12 m 2H CH 7.31 7.45 m 10H CH 7.53 7.56 m 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.0 26.7 34.3 35.8 44.1 52.3 53.1 67.1 70.9 34.4 44.2 48.6 66.6 72.2 114.6 121.9 126.8 127.1 127.5 127.9 128.1 128.3 128.5 128.6 131.3 132.3 133.2 133.4 135.5 135.7 147.6 157.9 165.1 166.3 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS Na 829.84 found 829.28.

Compound 7c was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 7c as a white solid 78 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.48 m 5H CH 1.71 1.93 m 5H CH 2.42 2.55 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.96 s 2H CH 4.79 s 2H CH 5.38 s 2H CH 6.90 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.10 7.16 m 4H CH 7.33 7.47 m 5H CH 8.10 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.1 26.8 34.3 35.8 44.1 52.2 53.0 66.9 126.9 128.2 128.3 128.4 128.5 128.6 131.4 133.1 135.5 147.8 165.1 165.7 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 723.19 found 723.13.

Compound 7d was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 7d as a colorless oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.23 1.46 m 5H CH 1.71 1.91 m 5H CH 2.42 2.52 m 1H CH 3.1 s 3H CH 3.98 s 2H CH 4.21 s 2H CH 4.76 s 2H CH 5.38 s 2H CH 6.81 6.91 m 2H CH 6.98 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.32 7.47 m 5H CH 7.93 7.99 m 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.9 26.8 34.2 35.8 44.2 52.1 52.9 67.2 106.5 108.3 116.9 123.9 127.2 127.4 127.7 128.1 128.4 128.6 132.7 133.2 135.1 147.5 162.9 165.6 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 718.19 found 719.32.

Compound 7f was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 7f as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.44 m 5H CH 1.72 1.91 m 5H CH 2.42 2.51 m 1H CH 3.11 s 3H CH 3.96 s 2H CH 4.65 s 2H CH 5.02 s 2H CH 6.74 6.82 m 2H CH 6.89 6.93 m 1H CH 6.95 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.12 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.31 7.45 m 5H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.2 25.9 34.1 35.3 44.11 51.2 52.2 71.3 115.4 123.5 127.1 128.1 128.2 128.9 129.1 132.5 133.1 136.1 147.4 157.8 165.1 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS Na 695.21 found 696.30.

Compound 7g was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 7g as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.38 1.51 m 5H CH 1.75 1.81 m 5H CH 2.43 2.52 m 1H CH 3.11 s 3H CH 3.91 s 2H CH 4.69 s 2H CH 5.31 s 4H CH 7.13 7.18 m 4H CH 7.37 7.52 m 10H CH 7.79 7.85 m 2H CH 8.40 s 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.3 26.6 34.5 35.1 35.6 48.2 49.3 67.1 68.4 117.2 118.1 120.2 126.3 126.8 127.3 127.7 127.9 134.5 138.1 138.4 140.3 141.1 144.5 147.7 165.1 166.4 166.9 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNS H 835.61 found 836.17.

Compound 7h was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 7h as a white solid 91 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.46 m 5H CH 1.70 1.93 m 5H CH 2.40 s 3H CH 2.43 2.53 m 1H CH 2.87 s 3H CH 3.76 s 2H CH 4.82 s 2H CH 5.38 s 2H CH 7.04 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.11 s J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.26 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.32 7.43 m 5H CH 7.45 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.63 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 8.10 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 26.0 26.8 34.3 35.7 44.1 51.5 52.9 66.9 70.2 126.9 127.4 128.2 128.3 128.6 129.4 129.4 131.2 133.5 135.2 135.6 143.3 144.9 147.5 165.3 166.6 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 625.27 found 625.31.

Compound 7i was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 7i as a white solid 80 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.46 m 5H CH 1.70 1.93 m 5H CH 2.41 s 3H CH 2.45 2.51 m 1H CH 2.86 s 3H CH 3.76 s 2H CH 4.82 s 2H CH 5.38 s 2H CH 6.82 6.93 m 2H CH 7.03 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 7.12 d 8.2 Hz 2H CH 7.27 s J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.30 7.46 m 5H CH 7.63 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.93 7.98 m 1H CH 5c 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 26.0 26.7 34.2 35.8 44.1 51.6 52.9 67.2 71.3 126.9 127.4 128.1 128.3 128.4 128.6 129.4 133.2 135.1 135.3 143.3 147.3 147.8 163.1 163.4 166.6 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 643.26 found 643.39.

Compound 7j was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 7j as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.21 1.41 m 5H CH 1.71 1.88 m 5H CH 2.30 s 3H CH 2.40 2.48 m 1H CH 3.1 s 3H CH 3.58 s 2H CH 4.57 s 2H CH 4.79 s 2H CH 5.28 s 2H CH 6.59 dd J 8.2 and 1.5 Hz 1H CH 6.93 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.02 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.14 7.35 m 12H CH 7.52 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 7.75 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 25.9 26.4 34.2 35.7 44.1 51.1 52.3 66.5 70.4 114.1 119.9 120.5 126.8 126.9 127.3 127.8 128.0 128.1 128.4 128.5 128.7 129.3 133.0 133.8 135.2 135.6 135.7 143.1 144.9 147.6 158.6 165.2 166.6. LRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 731.32 found 731.28.

Compound 7k was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.31 1.46 m 5H CH 1.71 1.91 m 5H CH 2.42 s 3H CH 2.44 2.51 m 1H CH 2.89 s 3H CH 3.74 s 2H CH 4.73 s 2H CH 5.05 s 2H CH 6.89 d J 8.8 Hz 2H CH 6.93 s J 8.8 Hz 2H CH 7.05 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.10 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.27 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 7.31 7.45 m 5H CH 7.67 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 26.1 26.8 34.3 35.7 44.1 51.3 53.1 70.2 115.7 126.7 127.4 128.1 128.5 128.7 129.3 129.4 133.5 134.2 135.6 136.2 143.1 147.3 158.5 167.2 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS Hg 5 597.28 found 597.34.

Compound 8 was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 8 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.44 m 5H CH 1.69 1.86 m 5H CH 2.41 2.53 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.98 s 2H CH 4.78 s 2H CH 6.97 d J 7.5 Hz 2H CH 7.13 d J 7.5 Hz 2H CH 7.21 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 8.24 d J 8.6 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.9 26.6 34.2 35.8 44.1 52.2 53.1 125.2 127.2 128.4 129.2 132.5 148.2 146.9 147.8 165.6 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 612.5881 found 612.1582 HPLC I t 31.615 min 100.0 II t 48.560 min 100.0 .

Compound 9 was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 9 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.27 1.44 m 5H CH 1.68 1.89 m 5H CH 2.41 s 3H CH 2.43 2.50 m 1H CH 2.83 s 3H CH 3.76 s 2H CH 4.86 s 2H CH 7.04 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.11 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.21 7.29 m 4H CH 7.61 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 8.21 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 25.7 26.6 34.3 35.8 44.2 52.1 53.1 124.9 127.1 127.4 128.4 128.9 129.5 133.1 134.6 143.4 146.6 146.9 147.8 166.6 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 536.6624 found 536.2222 HPLC I t 28.939 min 100.0 II t 46.607 min 100.0 .

Compound 10 was synthesized according to general procedure j yielding the final product 10 as a colorless oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.25 1.43 m 5H CH 1.70 1.88 m 5H CH 2.41 2.52 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.78 s 2H CH 3.96 s 2H CH 4.63 s 2H NH 6.59 d I 8.3 Hz 2H CH 6.71 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 6.97 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.10 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.9 26.3 34.1 35.6 44.2 51.5 53.2 120.9 126.2 127.7 129.1 131.3 135.1 136.9 147.1 165.8 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 582.6052 found 582.1859 HPLC I t 20.503 min 94.4 II t 40.315 min 95.3 .

Compound 11 was synthesized according to general procedure j yielding the final product 11 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.25 1.45 m 5H CH 1.71 1.89 m 5H CH 2.40 s 3H CH 2.42 2.53 m 1H CH 2.87 s 3H CH 3.74 s 2H CH 4.71 s 2H CH 6.57 d J 8.6 Hz 2H CH 6.71 d J 8.6 Hz 2H CH 7.02 7.11 m 4H CH 7.25 d J 7.0 Hz 2H CH 7.65 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 26.1 26.7 34.3 35.7 44.1 51.2 53.1 115.5 126.6 127.4 128.8 129.1 129.3 130.9 134.4 135.6 143.0 146.6 147.1 167.4 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 506.6794 found 506.2467 HPLC I t 15.995 min 100.0 II t 36.789 min 100.0 .

Compound 12 was synthesized according to general procedure d yielding the final product 12 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.30 1.43 m 5H CH 1.71 1.90 m 5H CH 2.37 2.48 m 1H CH 3.01 s 3H CH 3.75 s 2H CH 4.58 s 2H CH 6.79 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 6.84 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 6.99 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.09 d J 8.4 Hz 2H CH 7.43 brs 1H NH 7.59 7.71 m 2H CH 7.74 7.79 m 1H CH 7.86 7.95 m 3H CH 8.35 8.41 m 1H C14 100 MHz d CDCl 26.0 26.7 34.2 35.7 44.0 52.1 52.9 121.8 122.0 126.7 127.7 127.8 128.4 128.8 129.1 129.2 129.5 131.8 133.2 134.9 135.5 136.6 137.1 147.6 165.9 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 772.8236 found 772.1938 HPLC I t 32.086 min 95.8 II t 47.265 min 96.9 .

Compound 13 was synthesized according to general procedure d yielding the final product 15 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.44 m 5H CH 1.70 1.88 m 5H CH 2.38 2.48 m 1H CH 3.01 s 3H CH 3.72 s 2H CH 4.55 s 2H CH 6.72 d J 8.4 Hz 2H CH 6.82 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 6.98 7.06 m 4H CH 7.59 7.68 m 2H CH 8.10 d J 8.0 Hz 1H CH 8.32 d J 7.5 Hz 1H CH 8.36 d J 7.1 Hz 1H CH 8.61 brs 1H NH 9.12 9.16 m 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.9 26.7 34.2 35.7 44.0 52.1 52.9 122.4 122.8 125.6 126.7 128.28 128.74 128.82 131.5 133.2 133.84 135.1 136.7 137.3 137.5 142.9 147.5 151.2 166.0 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 773.8117 found 773.1871 HPLC I t 29.764 min 95.6 II t 47.224 min 97.8 .

Compound 14 was synthesized according to general procedure d yielding the final product 13 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.48 m 5H CH 1.69 1.89 m 5H CH 2.41 2.52 m 1H CH 3.05 s 3H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.94 s 2H CH 4.68 s 2H CH 6.93 7.02 m 4H CH 7.10 d 2H J 7.7 Hz CH 7.21 d J 8.4 Hz 2H CH 7.41 brs 1H NH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.0 26.7 34.3 35.8 39.7 44.10 52.20 53.09 120.7 126.9 128.4 129.5 133.3 136.4 137.5 147.6 166.1 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 660.6956 found 660.1634 HPLC I t 26.394 min 95.55 II t 44.372 min 94.33 .

Compound 15 was synthesized according to general procedure d yielding the final product 14 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.30 1.47 m 5H CH 1.70 1.94 m 5H CH 2.42 2.53 m 1H CH 3.07 s 3H CH 3.70 s 3H CH 3.86 s 2H CH 4.62 s 2H CH 6.85 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 6.94 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.10 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.34 d J 8.4 Hz 2H CH 7.41 s 1H CH 7.56 s 1H CH 10.23 s 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.0 26.7 34.1 34.3 35.8 44.0 52.1 53.0 122.3 124.9 126.8 128.2 128.8 133.4 136.3 137.8 138.7 139.3 147.5 166.2 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 726.1843 found 726.1821 HPLC I t 23.409 min 94.7 II t 42.488 min 94.9 .

Compound 16 was synthesized according to general procedure d yielding the final product X as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.44 m 5H CH 1.70 1.89 m 5H CH 2.41 2.50 m 1H CH 3.06 s 3H CH 3.92 s 2H CH 4.68 s 2H CH 5.10 brs 2H NH 6.94 7.01 m 4H CH 7.10 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.19 d J 8.4 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.9 26.7 34.3 35.7 44.1 52.2 53.2 121.0 126.9 128.4 129.2 133.3 136.3 137.6 147.6 166.3 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 661.6836 found 661.1575 HPLC I t 23.259 min 90.9 II t 42.445 min 91.4 .

Compound 17 was synthesized according to general procedure k yielding the final product 17 as a colorless oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.32 1.46 m 8H CHand CH 1.69 1.90 m 5H CH 2.41 2.52 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.94 s 2H CH 4.41 q J 7.2 Hz 2H CH 4.70 s 2H CH 6.92 7.02 m 4H CH 7.10 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.67 d 8.3 Hz 2H CH 9.02 brs 1H NH 100 MHz d CDCl 13.9 26.1 26.8 34.3 35.9 44.1 52.2 53.1 63.8 121.0 126.9 128.6 129.1 133.4 136.7 136.8 147.7 154.0 160.6 166.2 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 682.6779 found 682.1994 HPLC I t 28.867 min 93.7 II 46.469 min 95.6 .

Compound 18 was synthesized according to general procedure g yielding the final product 18 as a colorless oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.23 1.41 m 5H CH 1.42 t J 7.2 Hz 3H CH 1.69 1.86 m 5H CH 2.40 s 3H CH 2.42 2.52 m 1H CH 2.85 s 3H CH 3.72 s 2H CH 4.41 q J 7.2 Hz 2H CH 4.75 s 2H CH 6.95 7.05 m 4H CH 7.10 d J 7.8 Hz 2H CH 7.24 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.58 7.67 m 4H CH 9.01 s 1H NH 100 MHz d CDCl 13.8 21.4 26.1 26.7 34.2 35.6 44.1 51.4 53.1 63.7 120.9 126.7 128.7 129.2 129.4 133.9 135.2 136.4 137.3 143.2 147.4 154.1 160.6 166.7 167.4 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 606.7522 found 606.2635 HPLC I t 25.724 min 100.0 II t 44.185 min 100.0 .

Compound 19a was synthesized according to general procedure m yielding the final product 19a as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.27 1.45 m 5H CH 1.69 1.91 m 5H CH 2.41 2.53 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.89 s 2H CH 4.71 s 2H CH 5.01 s 2H CH 6.90 7.10 m 4H CH 7.11 7.15 m 2H CH 7.33 7.45 m 5H CH 7.63 7.70 m 1H CH 8.10 d J 8.3 Hz 1H CH 8.72 8.91 brs 1H NH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.9 26.7 34.2 35.8 44.1 52.2 53.0 78.4 126.9 128.4 128.5 128.6 128.9 129.1 130.9 131.8 132.9 148.0 158.9 159.9 161.2 166.7 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNFNOS Na 738.20 found 738.15.

Compound 19b was synthesized according to general procedure m yielding the final product 19b as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.45 m 5H CH 1.69 1.91 m 5H CH 2.41 s 3H CH 2.42 2.50 m 1H CH 2.83 s 3H CH 3.68 s 2H CH 4.77 s 2H CH 5.03 s 2H CH 6.97 7.11 m 6H CH 7.22 7.30 m 2H CH 7.33 7.48 m 5H CH 7.61 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 7.65 7.71 m 2H CH 8.72 8.91 brs 1H NH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 25.9 26.7 34.3 35.7 44.1 51.5 52.9 59.1 117.1 126.9 127.4 128.1 128.5 128.6 128.7 129.2 129.4 133.5 135.1 143.3 147.6 158.9 159.9 161.2 166.7 LRMS ES Calcd for CHHOS Na 640.28 found 640.41.

Compound 20 was synthesized according to general procedure i yielding the final product 20 as a viscous orange oil 74 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.23 t J 6.9 Hz 6H CH 1.27 1.47 m 5H CH 1.70 1.87 m 5H CH 2.4 2.5 m 1H CH 3.08 s 3H CH 3.10 s 1H CH 3.16 s 1H CH 3.92 s 2H CH 3.95 4.07 m 4H CH 4.73 s 2H CH 6.98 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.03 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.10 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.31 7.37 m 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 15.1 15.2 25.7 26.4 34.1 44.1 51.5 52.5 62.3 62.5 126.4 128.1 128.2 131.1 131.2 133.7 138.9 147.1 166.7 FIRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOPS H 717.7033 found 717.2198 HPLC I t 29.18 min 96.1 H t 41.38 min 95.1 .

Compound 21 was synthesized according to general procedure n yielding the final product 21 as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.27 1.42 m 5H CH 1.70 1.87 m 5H CH 2.40 2.50 m 1H CH 3.03 s 3H CH 3.10 s 2H CH 3.90 s 2H CH 4.65 s 2H CH 6.89 7.05 m 4H CH 7.11 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.20 7.31 m 2H CH 100 MHz d CD SO 25.7 26.4 34.1 35.5 43.5 44.1 51.5 53.4 126.4 128.1 128.2 131.1 131.2 133.7 138.9 147.1 166.7 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOPS H 661.5970 found 661.1566 HPLC I t 17.489 min 97.9 II t 38.028 min 100.0 .

Compound 22 was synthesized according to general procedure o yielding the final product 22 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.32 1.48 m 5H CH 1.70 1.88 m 5H CH 2.32 s 3H CH 2.43 2.51 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 4.00 s 2H CH 4.76 s 2H CH 6.82 s 1H CH 6.93 7.02 m 3H CH 7.12 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 8.10 d J 8.1 Hz 1H CH 100 MHz d CD SO 20.5 26.0 26.4 33.6 36.3 44.3 52.1 53.4 118.4 120.0 120.1 123.0 123.1 125.6 130.8 139.2 158.8 159.0 168.0 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 669.1691 found 669.1701 HPLC I t 24.679 min 93.9 II t 43.441 min 93.3 .

Compound 23 was synthesized according to general procedure o yielding the final product 23 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.24 1.47 m 5H CH 1.70 1.91 m 5H CH 2.32 s 3H CH 2.40 s 3H CH 2.43 2.52 m 1H CH 2.83 s 3H CH 3.77 s 2H CH 4.85 s 2H CH 6.87 s 1H CH 7.03 d 1H J 8.1 Hz CH 7.11 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.13 d J 7.9 Hz 1H CH 7.27 d J 8.4 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CD SO 20.9 25.8 26.2 29.5 33.6 36.3 44.3 52.1 53.4 118.4 120.1 120.5 123.0 123.1 125.6 130.8 134.9 139.2 142.5 147.1 158.8 159.0 168.0 169.2 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 593.7104 found 593.2316 HPLC I t 22.090 min 94.8 II t 41.402 min 96.3 .

Compound 24 was synthesized according to procedure p yielding the final product 24 as white powder 74 . 400 MHz d MeOD 4.34 brs 2H NH 6.51 d J 8.9 Hz 2H CH 7.71 s J 8.9 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCO 113.4 121.6 126.8 143.1 154.2 LRMS ES Calcd for CHN H 161.07 found 162.16.

Compound 25a was synthesized according to general procedure q yielding the final product 25a as a brown solid 91 . 400 MHz d CDCl 3.83 s 3H CH 3.90 3.95 brs 2H CH 6.61 d J 8.8 Hz 2H CH 7.84 d J 8.8 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 51.6 114.1 120.1 131.5 151.2 167.4 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO H 152.07 found 152.04.

Compound 25b was synthesized according to general procedure q yielding the final product 25b as a brown solid 87 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.34 t J 7.0 Hz 3H CH 3.95 4.02 brs 2H NH 4.31 q J 7.1 Hz 2H CH 6.63 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.86 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 14.5 60.2 114.1 120.2 131.5 152.1 167.9 LRMS ES Calcd for CHNO H 166.09 found 166.1.

Compound 26 was synthesized according to general procedure r yielding the final product 26 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.27 1.46 m 5H CH 1.69 1.92 m 5H CH 2.14 s 3H CH 2.42 2.52 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.94 s 2H CH 4.74 s 2H CH 5.98 s 2H CH 6.95 d J 7.5 Hz 2H CH 7.05 7.15 m 4H CH 8.10 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 20.6 26.0 26.7 34.2 35.8 44.1 52.2 53.0 79.6 126.9 127.8 128.0 128.2 128.4 131.7 132.9 147.8 164.0 165.7 169.4 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 683.6627 found 683.1877 HPLC I t 30.783 min 97.3 II t 47.872 min 100.0 .

Compound 27 was synthesized according to general procedure r yielding the final product 27 as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.23 s 9H CH 1.34 1.44 m 5H CH 1.71 1.89 m 5H CH 2.42 2.52 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.94 s 2H CH 4.74 s 2H CH 5.99 s 2H CH 6.96 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.06 7.13 m 4H CH 8.10 d J 8.6 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.0 26.6 26.7 34.2 35.8 38.7 44.1 52.2 53.0 80.0 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 725.7424 found 725.2339 HPLC I t 35.701 min 96.2 II t 52.017 min 99.5 .

Compound 28 was synthesized according to general procedure g yielding the final product 28 as a white solid. 400 MHz d CD SO 1.25 1.40 m 5H CH 1.62 1.80 m 5H CH 2.37 2.55 m 1H CH 2.97 s 3H CH 3.97 s 2H CH 4.67 s 2H CH 6.98 d J 7.5 Hz 2H CH 7.03 7.13 m 4H CH 7.83 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 10.54 brs 1H NH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.1 26.7 34.2 35.9 44.2 52.4 53.3 121.0 126.9 128.6 129.1 133.4 136.7 136.8 147.7 154.2 160.5 166.1 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 653.1619 found 654.1691 HPLC I t 23.256 min 92.9 II t 42.389 min 90.7 .

Compound 29 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 29 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.53 m 5H CH 1.72 1.95 m 5H CH 2.41 2.58 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 4.01 s 2H CH 4.71 s 2H CH 6.75 d J 8.4 Hz 2H CH 6.82 d J 8.4 Hz 2H CH 7.01 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.13 d J 7.8 Hz 2H CH 7.36 brs 1H OH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.0 26.8 34.3 35.8 44.1 52.2 53.4 116.5 126.8 128.5 129.1 131.8 133.3 147.6 156.7 167.2 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 583.5899 found 583.1702 HPLC I t 27.039 min 99.7 II t 45.289 min 99.98 .

Compound 30 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 30 as a white solid 77 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.45 m 5H CH 1.70 1.93 m 5H CH 2.41 2.53 m 1H CH 3.08 s 3H CH 4.02 s 2H CH 4.70 s 2H CH 6.39 brs 1H OH 6.51 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 6.79 d J 8.1 Hz 1H CH 7.01 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.10 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.13 7.21 m 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.1 26.8 34.4 35.9 44.2 52.2 53.2 115.1 116.0 119.9 126.9 128.5 130.9 133.5 141.2 147.7 157.3 166.5 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 538.5899 found 583.1703 HPLC I t 26.890 min 98.1 II t 45.172 min 100.0 .

Compound 31 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 31 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.30 1.46 m 5H CH 1.71 1.88 m 5H CH 2.42 2.52 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.97 s 2H CH 4.76 s 2H CH 6.97 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.06 7.15 d 4H CH 8.11 d J 8.4 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.0 26.8 34.3 35.9 44.1 52.3 53.2 127.1 128.4 128.5 129.9 131.9 132.9 147.9 166.0 170.6 177.6 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 611.6000 found 611.1642 HPLC I t 26.244 min 100.0 II t 44.532 min 100.0 .

Compound 32 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 32 as an orange solid. S 400 MHz d MeOD 1.27 1.43 m 5H CH 1.71 1.87 m 5H CH 2.41 2.51 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 4.01 s 2H CH 4.78 s 2H CH 6.98 7.01 m 2H CH 7.10 d J 7.2 Hz 2H CH 7.15 7.23 m 2H CH 7.72 7.81 m 2H CH 100 MHz d MeOD 25.7 26.4 34.12 34.8 44.1 51.4 52.4 126.5 128.1 128.3 133.5 136.7 136.8 147.7 154.2 165.4 166.6 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 626.6147 found 626.1742 HPLC I t 22.843 min 97.9 II t 44.120 min 97.2 .

Compound 33 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 33 as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.48 m 5H CH 1.70 1.91 m 5H CH 2.41 2.54 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 4.03 s 2H CH 4.77 s 2H CH 6.84 6.96 m 2H CH 6.99 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.13 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 8.03 t J 7.9 Hz 1H CH 9.42 brs 1H OH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.0 26.8 34.3 35.9 44.2 52.3 53.2 127.3 128.3 132.7 134.2 148.2 161.4 164.0 165.9 167.8 177.5 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 629.5905 found 629.629.1545 HPLC I t 25.136 min 97.8 II t 43.841 min 97.8 .

Compound 34 was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 34 as a white solid 84 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.45 m 5H CH 1.69 1.89 m 5H CH 2.40 2.53 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.93 s 2H CH 4.76 s 2H CH 6.97 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.10 7.18 m 4H CH 7.65 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.0 26.7 34.3 35.7 44.0 52.0 52.9 61.8 112.2 117.6 127.1 128.3 129.1 132.9 133.7 147.9 165.8 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 592.6000 found 592.1707 HPLC I t 29.752 min 100.0 II t 47.312 min 99.78 .

Compound 35 was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 35 as a white powder 82 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.25 1.41 m 5H CH 1.64 1.84 m 5H CH 2.38 2.51 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.96 s 2H CH 4.75 s 2H CH 6.97 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.05 7.18 m 4H CH 8.03 8.10 m 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.1 26.7 34.3 35.9 44.1 52.3 53.4 115.4 127.1 128.5 129.1 132.9 142.3 147.9 157.1 166.6 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 635.6280 found 635.1858 HPLC I t 24.461 min 99.7 II t 43.295 min 99.3 .

Compound 36 was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 36 as a while solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.45 m 5H CH 1.71 1.93 m 5H CH 2.42 2.53 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.95 s 2H CH 4.72 s 2H CH 6.96 7.03 m 4H CH 7.11 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.34 7.41 m 3H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 26.1 26.8 34.4 35.8 44.2 52.3 53.2 126.9 128.2 128.5 128.8 130.1 133.6 140.2 147.6 166.2 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 567.5905 found 567.1752 HPLC I t 22.657 min 99.6 II t 49.267 min 98.9 .

Compound 37 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 37 as a white solid. 400 MHz d CD SO 1.21 1.42 m 5H CH 1.64 1.79 m 5H CH 2.40 2.51 m 1H CH 3.01 s 3H CH 3.97 s 2H CH 4.77 s 2H CH 7.01 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.12 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.84 7.89 m 2H CH 8.41 s 1H CH 100 MHz d CD SO 25.8 26.8 34.2 35.8 43.7 52.5 53.1 127.2 128.5 130.1 133.3 133.5 134.1 140.4 141.1 147.1 166.1 166.4 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 655.6095 found 655.1537 HPLC I t 18.18 min 93.4 II t 35.28 min 94.5 .

Compound 38 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 38 as a colorless oil. 400 MHz d CD SO 1.26 1.44 m 5H CH 1.71 1.87 m 5H CH 2.42 2.50 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.94 s 2H CH 4.68 s 2H CH 7.01 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.12 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.84 7.89 m 2H CH 8.41 s 1H CH 10.94 brs 1H OH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.8 26.8 34.2 35.8 43.7 52.5 53.1 127.2 128.5 130.1 133.3 133.5 134.1 140.4 141.1 147.1 166.1 166.4 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 627.5994 found 627.1588 HPLC I t 26.235 min 99.4 II t 44.654 min 96.4 .

Compound 39 was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 39 as a white solid 74 . 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.49 m 5H CH 1.66 1.93 m 5H CH 2.37 2.54 m 1H CH 3.07 s 3H CH 3.90 s 3H CH 3.94 s 2H CH 4.73 s 2H CH 6.95 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.01 7.14 m 4H CH 8.02 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.1 26.7 34.2 35.8 44.0 48.5 51.8 53.5 126.8 128.1 128.4 131.2 133.2 147.6 152.4 165.1 166.3 165.8 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 625.6266 found 625.1784 HPLC I t 32.188 min 99.6 II t 49.208 min 99.6 .

Compound 40 was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 40 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.32 1.46 m 8H CHand CH 1.70 1.86 m 5H CH 2.42 2.52 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 3.94 s 2H CH 4.39 q J 7.2 Hz 2H CH 4.73 s 2H CH 6.96 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.1 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 7.10 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 8.10 d J 8.3 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 14.1 26.0 26.7 34.2 35.8 44.0 52.2 53.0 61.3 126.9 128.2 128.4 131.3 133.1 147.8 152.6 165.3 165.7 165.8 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 639.6532 found 639.1956 HPLC I t 33.512 min 100.0 II t 50.144 min 100.0 .

Compound 41 was synthesized according to general procedure h yielding the final product 41 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CD SO 1.22 1.44 m 5H CH 1.64 1.82 m 5H CH 2.41 2.50 m 1H CH 3.01 s 3H CH 3.98 s 2H CH 4.10 s 2H CH 4.69 s 2H CH 7.00 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.05 7.18 m 4H CH 7.60 d J 8.6 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 20.7 26.7 31.6 34.2 36.7 44.1 52.1 53.1 97.8 121.4 126.9 128.4 128.7 133.3 137.8 147.6 163.1 166.2 176.9 HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 692.6794 found 692.2072 HPLC I t 21.636 min 97.6 II t 9.452 min 99.12 .

Compound 42 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 43 as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.25 1.41 m 5H CH 1.71 1.89 m 5H CH 2.41 s 3H CH 2.44 2.51 m 1H CH 2.86 s 3H CH 3.77 s 2H CH 4.83 s 2H CH 7.04 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.10 7.16 m 4H CH 7.27 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.63 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 8.10 d J 8.2 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 25.9 26.8 29.5 34.3 35.8 44.1 53.1 126.8 127.4 129.3 129.6 131.6 133.5 135.2 137.5 143.3 145.1 146.5 147.1 166.7 169.4 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 535.6743 found 535.2259 HPLC I t 20.701 min 100.0 II t 40.495 min 100.0 .

Compound 43 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 44 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.44 m 5H CH 1.70 1.89 m 5H CH 2.41 s 3H CH 2.42 2.54 m 1H CH 2.85 s 3H CH 3.81 s 2H CH 4.84 s 2H CH 6.85 6.98 m 2H CH 7.05 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.12 d J 7.7 Hz 2H CH 7.3 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.63 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.96 8.03 m 1H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 25.8 26.7 34.3 35.7 44.1 51.8 53.1 127.1 127.5 129.5 132.7 133.1 134.2 134.9 136.8 137.1 148.2 161.4 164.0 165.9 167.8. HRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 553.6648 found 553.2158 HPLC I t 20.972 min 97.1 II t 40.669 min 94.40 .

Compound 44 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 45 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.46 m 5H CH 1.70 1.87 m 5H CH 2.39 s 3H CH 2.42 2.50 m 1H CH 2.81 s 3H CH 3.63 s 1H NH 3.70 brs 1H OH 3.89 s 2H CH 4.85 s 2H CH 7.03 7.14 m 4H CH 7.18 7.24 m 2H CH 7.31 d J 7.5 Hz 2H CH 7.53 d J 7.5 Hz 2H CH 7.75 d J 7.0 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 25.9 26.7 29.6 34.3 35.8 44.1 51.4 53.1 119.8 126.9 127.4 128.1 129.2 132.5 134.3 135.3 143.2 147.3 163.1 167.6 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 550.6889 found 550.2370 HPLC I t 14.977 min 96.5 II t 37.687 min 97.2 .

Compound 45 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 46 as a yellow oil. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.28 1.44 m 5H CH 1.71 1.89 m 5H CH 2.39 s 3H CH 2.42 2.50 m 1H CH 2.86 s 3H CH 3.74 s 2H CH 4.73 s 2H CH 6.36 brs 1H OH 6.76 6.83 m 4H CH 7.04 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.1 d J 7.9 Hz 2H CH 7.25 d J 7.4 Hz 2H CH 7.64 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.4 25.8 26.5 34.3 35.8 44.1 51.4 53.1 116.3 126.6 127.4 128.7 129.3 132.7 134.0 135.3 143.2 147.3 156.1 167.6 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 507.6642 found 507.2312 HPLC I t 21.567 min 100.0 II t 41.184 min 100.0 .

Compound 46 was synthesized according to general procedure g yielding the final product 47 as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.24 1.41 m 5H CH 1.71 1.86 m 5H CH 2.45 s 3H CH 2.41 2.53 m 1H CH 2.87 s 3H CH 3.71 s 2H CH 4.77 s 2H CH 6.98 7.01 m 4H CH 7.12 d J 7.8 Hz 2H CH 7.31 d J 7.3 Hz 2H CH 7.53 7.59 m 4H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 25.9 26.2 34.1 35.3 44.2 51.6 53.4 63.6 121.1 126.5 128.2 129.1 129.7 133.1 135.5 136.8 137.4 143.1 147.2 154.4 161.2 165.9 167.1 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 578.6990 found 578.2319 HPLC I t 19.967 min 100.0 II t 39.811 min 97.9 .

Compound 47 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 42 as a colorless oil. 400 MHz d DMSO 1.33 1.41 m 5H CH 1.68 1.85 m 5H CH 2.42 2.51 m 1H CH 3.10 s 3H CH 4.13 s 2H CH 4.76 s 2H CH 6.75 dd J 8.4 and 2.0 Hz 1H CH 6.68 d J 8.0 Hz 1H CH 7.10 d J 7.0 Hz 2H CH 7.12 d J 8.0 Hz 2H CH 7.81 d J 8.4 1H CH 100 MHz d DMSO 25.3 26.1 34.7 35.5 44.1 51.3 51.7 115.7 118.4 118.9 125.9 127.4 131.3 133.8 145.9 146.2 161.4 165.2 171.2 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 627.15. found 627.15.

Compound 48 was synthesized according to general procedure l yielding the final product 48 as a white solid. 400 MHz d CDCl 1.26 1.45 m 5H CH 1.71 1.89 m 5H CH 2.42 s 3H CH 2.43 2.51 m 1H CH 2.88 s 3H CH 3.86 s 2H CH 4.81 s 2H CH 6.61 d J 8.3 Hz 1H CH 6.68 6.72 m 1H CH 7.10 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.12 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.27 d J 8.4 1H CH 7.66 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 7.87 d J 8.1 Hz 2H CH 100 MHz d CDCl 21.3 25.3 26.5 34.1 36.2 42.1 43.4 51.3 52.0 112.8 116.3 118.8 126.8 127.1 127.6 131.0 134.3 141.2 146.7 147.1 161.8 167.0 171.5 LRMS ES Calcd for CHFNOS H 627.1582. found 627.1551 HRMS ES Calcd for CHNOS H 551.2223 found 551.2210 HPLC I t 24.351 min 98.1 II t 52.80 min 98.2 .

Test compound was evaluated at a single dose of 5 M in duplicate mode. Control compound was tested in a 10 dose ICwith 3 fold serial dilution starting at 20 M. Reactions were carried out at 10 M ATP.

Preliminary screen against AKT c Src ERK1 JaK1 and JaK2 was performed at Reaction Biology Corporation www.reactionbiology.com Malvern Pa. using the HotSpot assay platform. Specific kinase substrate pairs along with their required cofactors were prepared in reaction buffer 20 mM Hepes pH 7.5 10 mM MgCl 1 mM EGTA 0.02 Brij35 0.02 mg ml BSA 0.1 mM NaVO 2 mM DTT 1 DMSO. The screen was completed in duplicate at a single concentration of 5 M. The reaction well with the subject compound was treated with a mixture of ATP Sigma St. Louis Mo. and P ATP Perkin Elmer Waltham Mass. to a final concentration of 10 M. Control compound Staurosporine was tested in a 10 dose ICwith 3 fold serial dilution starting at 20 M. Reaction wells were kept at room temperature for 120 minutes followed by spotting each of the reactions onto P81 ion exchange filter paper Whatman Inc. Piscataway N.J. . Any unbound phosphate was removed through extensive washing of filters using 0.75 phosphoric acid. Background was subtracted using control reactions and the kinase activity data was expressed as the percent remaining kinase activity in test samples compared to vehicle dimethyl sulfoxide reactions. All ICvalues table 3 and curve fitting were produced using Prism GraphPad Software .

Second screen against 101 selected kinases including ABL1 E255K phosphorylated ABL1 T315I phosphorylated ABL1 nonphosphorylated ABL1 phosphorylated ACVR1B ADCK3 AKT1 AKT2 ALK AURKA AURKB AXL BMPR2 BRAF BRAF V600E BTK CDK11 CDK2 CDK3 CDK7 CDK9 CHEK1 CSF1R CSNK1D CSNK1G2 DCAMKL1 DYRK1B EGFR EGFR L858R EPHA2 ERBB2 ERBB4 ERK1 FAK FER FES FGFR2 FGFR3 FGR FLT3 FYN GSK3B IGF1R IKK alpha IKK beta INSR JAK2 JH1 domain catalytic JAK3 JH1 domain catalytic JNK1 JNK2 JNK3 MAPKAPK2 MARK3 MEK1 MEK2 MET MKNK1 MKNK2 MLK1 p38 alpha p38 Beta PAK1 PAK2 PAK4 PCTK1 PDGFRA PDGFRB PDPK1 PIK3C2B PIK3CA PIK3CG PIM1 PIM2 PIM3 PKAC alpha PLK1 PLK3 PLK4 PRKCE RAF1 RET RIOK2 ROCK2 RSK2 Kin.DOM.1 N TERMINAL SNARK SRC SRPK3 TGFBR1 TIE2 TRKA TSSK1B TYK2 JH1 domain catalytic ULK2 VEGFR2 YANK3 ZAP70 KIT D816V KIT V559D T6701 LKB1 MAP3K4 and KIT was performed. The test compound was evaluated at a single dose of 500 nM. Kinase tagged T7 phage strains were grown in parallel in 24 well blocks in an host derived from the BL21 strain. were grown to the log phase and were then infected with T7 phage from a frozen stock multiplicity of infection 0.4 and incubated at 32 C. with shaking until lysis 90 150 minutes . Lysates were centrifuged 6 000 g and filtered 0.2 m to remove any cell debris. The remaining kinases were produced in HEK 293 cells and were then tagged with DNA for easy quantitative PCR qPCR detection. Magnetic beads coated with Streptavidin were treated with biotinylated small molecule ligands for 30 minutes at room temperature to generate the affinity resins for needed kinase assays. The liganded beads were blocked with excess biotin and washed with blocking buffer SeaBlock Pierce 1 BSA 0.05 Tween 20 1 mM DTT in order to remove unbound ligand and to also reduce non specific phage binding. Binding reactions were assembled by combining kinases liganded affinity beads and 31 in 1 binding buffer 20 SeaBlock 0.17x PBS 0.05 Tween 20 6 mM DTT . Compound 31 was prepared as 40 stocks in 100 DMSO and was directly diluted into the assay. All reactions were performed in polypropylene 384 well plates in a final volume of 40 L. The assay plates were shaked at room temperature for 1 hour and the affinity beads were washed with wash buffer 1 PBS 0.05 Tween 20 . Following the wash beads were re suspended in elution buffer 1 PBS 0.05 Tween 20 0.5 M non biotinylated affinity ligand and incubated at room temperature with shaking for 30 minutes. Kinase concentration in eluates was measured by qPCR .

BTSC spheres were dissociated to single cells with the enzyme Accumax Innovative Technologies seeded at 1500 cells 96 well and treated with drug or vehicle DMSO one day after plating. Cytotoxicity studies were repeated independently at Sickkids Hospital using BTSC lines 25M 67EF 73EF 84EF and 127EF. BTSC spheres were dissociated to single cells as above and plated in 96 well plates in triplicate at 3000 cells 96 well. In both sets of experiments drugs were used as serial dilutions within the range of 5 M to 100 nM in the first set and 25 M to 10 nM. Cell viability following drug treatment was assessed three days later using the ALAMARBLUE assay Invitrogen according to the manufacturer s instructions. All culture experiments were performed in triplicate with a minimum of three wells per condition. Table 4 below illustrates a screen of the library against a number of BTSCs using ALAMARBLUE assay.

When ICwas evaluated in tests conducted side by side with compound 1 of the prior art and compounds 22 and 31 33 the results are conclusive. The compounds of the present invention have a better ICthan compound 1 see Table 5 below 

BTSC spheres were lysed in modified RIPA buffer supplemented with Complete Mini protease Roche and Halt phosphatase Thermo Scientific inhibitor cocktails. For protein analysis following drug treatment BTSC spheres were dissociated to single cells and 1 10cells were treated with drug or vehicle DMSO for 2 24 or 72 hours. 15 g of protein were loaded on 7.5 or 10 SDS PAGE gels and transblotted to nitrocellulose membranes. Blots were stained with the following antibodies phospho STAT3 Y705 1 1000 Cell Signalling Technology phospho STAT3 S727 1 1000 Cell Signalling Technology STAT3 1 1000 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Bcl xL 1 1000 Cell Signalling Technology cyclin D1 1 1000 Cell Signalling Technology PARP 1 1000 Cell Signalling Technology and Actin 1 2500 Santa Cruz Biotechnology . HRP conjugated secondary antibodies goat anti rabbit Cell Signalling Technology were used at 1 2000 and donkey anti mouse donkey anti goat and goat anti rabbit Calbiochem were used at 1 6000. Bands were visualized with the ECL Plus Western Blotting Detection System and Hyperfilm Amersham .

GBM BTSCs were cultured from a series of tumor specimens obtained following informed consent from adult GBM patients during their operative procedure as previously described Kelly et al Stem Cells 2009 and approved by the University of Calgary Ethics Review Board. Briefly BTSC cultures were initiated in serum free defined culture medium SFM and gave rise to nonadherent spheres after 7 to 21 days in culture. Primary tumor spheres were expanded for several passages and then cryopreserved in 10 DMSO Sigma Aldrich in serum free defined medium until use in experiments. Human fetal neural stem cells were also cultured as previously described and induced to differentiate into astrocytes by addition of 10 fetal bovine serum and removal of EGF FGF 2 and heparan sulfate.

STAT3 STAT5 and STAT1 The fluorescence polarization studies were performed on an Infinite M1000 Tecan Crailsheim Germany machine using black 384 round bottom well plates Corning . The buffer used contained 50 mM NaCl 10 mM Hepes pH 7.5 1 mM EDTA and 2 mM dithiothreitol and a final concentration of 5 DMSO.

Test compounds were dissolved in DMSO and diluted using a dilution medium consisting of 50 mM NaCl 10 mM Hepes pH 7.5 1 mM EDTA and 2 mM dithiothreitol. Fluorescently labelled pYLPQTV peptide FAM pYLPQTV was kept at a final concentration of 10 nM in the buffered solution. Non labelled pYLPQTV peptide was dissolved in DMSO and diluted using the dilution medium for use as a positive control. A calibration curve was performed using 10 nM Fam pYLPQTV and dilutions of STAT3 and STAT1 protein 5.0 L to 2.4 nM at a final DMSO concentration of 10 .

The midpoint of the saturation curve was used to determine the STAT3 concentration required for the competitive fluorescent polarization assay. 7.5 L of FAM pYLPQTV peptides was added to the already plated 15 L of a 750 nM STAT3 protein solution in 384 flat well plates. 7.5 L of inhibitory molecules and positive control solution were individually added to the plate. The final inhibitory concentrations were 100 L 50 L 25A 12.5 L 6.3 L or 3.1 L. The 10 DMSO buffer solution was incubated for 15 30 minutes before signal measurements by the Infinite M1000. Results for compounds 22 31 32 and 33 are illustrated in .

Interactions of His tagged STAT3 with small molecules were investigated using SPR spectroscopy. The binding experiments were carried out on a ProteOn XPR36 Bio Rad biosensor at 25 C. using the HTE sensor chip Bio Rad Ontario Canada . The flow cells of the sensor chip were loaded with a nickel solution at 30 L min for 120 s to saturate the Tris NTA surface with Ni II ions. Purified His tagged STAT3 and STAT5 SignalChem British Columbia Canada in PBST buffer PBS with 0.005 v v Tween 20 and 0.001 DMSO pH 7.4 was injected in the first and second channels of the chip respectively in the vertical direction at a flow rate of 25 g L for 300 s which attained on average 8000 resonance unit RU . After a wash with PBST buffer inhibitors binding to the immobilized proteins were monitored by injecting a range of concentrations along with a blank at a flow rate of 100 L min for 200 s for each of these small molecules. When the injection of the small molecule inhibitor was completed running buffer was allowed to flow over the immobilized substrates for the non specifically bound inhibitors to dissociate for 600 s. Following dissociation of the inhibitors the chip surface was regenerated with an injection of 1 M NaCl at a flow rate of 100 L ml for 18 s. Interspot channel reference was used for non specific binding corrections and the blank channel used with each analyte injection served as a double reference to correct for possible baseline drift. Data were analyzed using ProteOn Manager Software version 3.1. The Langmuir 1 1 binding model was used to determine the Kvalues.

Since these inhibitors are designed with the aim to target STAT3 they are most potent in cell lines which are highly reliant on the STAT3 protein. BTSCs are amongst the most deadly STAT3 dependent cancer cell lines identified to date and it is thus why these cell lines display such sensitivity to our STAT3 inhibitors. Nevertheless as expected these compounds could also be used to treat other cancers. The rationale is that since the compounds described herein can effectively kill the very resistant and highly deadly BTSCs which are almost irresponsive to most chemotherapy agents they can be applied against a variety of other cancer cells as well.

In addition to brain cancer in order to evaluate the potential of the compounds of the present invention for treating other forms of cancer the ICfor compounds 22 31 32 23 et 33 also referred to in the table as SH 04 08 SH 04 54 SH 05 07 SH 05 19 AND SH 05 23 respectively was determined against other STAT3 dependent cancers such as Breast cancer cells MDA MB 468 Prostate PPC1 or DU145 and leukemia cancer cells AML 2 in parallel with BTSC 30M. The results are reported in Table 6 below.

Low passage patient derived pancreatic cancer line Panc10.05 was plated in 96 well plates 3 10per well and allowed to attach overnight. STAT3 inhibitors 31 41 42 and 38 were added at indicated concentrations. Cell survival was measured 72 h after drug addition with the MTS assay. The results are reported in .

Low passage patient derived pancreatic cancer lines Pa03C and Panc10.05 were plated in 6 well plates 2 10and 8 10 respectively and allowed to attach overnight. STAT3 inhibitors were added for 1 hr prior to IL 6 stimulation 50 ng mL 15 min . STAT3 inhibitors were present during IL 6 stimulation. Cells were harvested and lysed for Western blotting. phospho Specific STAT3 antibody Y705 was used to look at STAT3 phosphorylation and total STAT3 antibody was used to normalize activation of STAT3. Antibodies were from Cell Signaling and used at a 1 1000 dilution.

As can be seen in compound 31 potently inhibits de novo phosphorylation of STAT3 protein in pancreatic cancer cells.

As can be seen on compound 31 effectively kills tumor cells grown in 3D cultures in the presence and absence of cancer associated fibroblasts CAFs . illustrates the effects of STAT3 inhibitor 31 on low passage patient derived pancreatic cancer line Pa03C plated in a 96 well plate coated with 1 Noble Agar in media containing 3 Matrigel with and without cancer associated fibroblasts. The ratio of the tumor to CAFs is 1 4. Tumor spheres begin to form around Day 3 and STAT3 inhibitor 31 added at Day 4 and 8. Cytotoxicity is assessed by fluorescence using Alamar Blue assay on Day 11.

For assessing MM cell viability HMCL cells were seeded in 96 well plates in triplicate at a density of 20 000 cells well and incubated with increasing concentrations of 16i and 21h or DMSO control and cell viability assessed by MTT 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 5 diphenyl tetrazolium colorimetric analysis. Results are reported at .

For Western blotting BTSC spheres were dissociated with Accumax eBioscience and plated at 10cells 1.5 mL of media. Cells were treated with vehicle DMSO or drug and pelleted at select time points. For protein extraction BTICs were lysed in modified RIPA buffer 50 mM Tris 150 mM NaCl 0.1 SDS 0.5 Na Deoxycholate 1 NP 40 supplemented with Complete Mini protease Roche and Halt phosphatase Thermo Scientific inhibitor cocktails. Protein concentrations were quantified using the BioRad protein assay 11 15 g of protein were loaded on 7.5 or 12 sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis SDS PAGE gels and transblotted to nitrocellulose membranes. Blots were stained with primary antibodies followed by horseradish peroxidase HRP conjugated secondary antibodies. Primary antibodies included JAK2 p JAK2 EGFR pEGFR Y1068 p STAT3 Y705 p STAT3 S727 cyclin D1 p Akt5473 Akt p Erk1 2 T202 Y204 p S6 S235 236 PARP tubulin PDGR pPDGFR Y1009 Cell Signaling Technology Erk1 2 Millipore STAT3 and Actin Santa Cruz Biotechnology Secondary antibodies included donkey anti mouse donkey anti goat and goat anti rabbit Calbiochem . Bands were visualized with the SuperSignal West Pico chemiluminescent substrate Thermo Scientific and Hyperfilm Amersham .

For in vivo on target Assessment BTIC spheres from BT73 were enzymatically dissociated Accumax eBioscience to single cell suspensions. Cells were washed in PBS and re suspended at 10cells per 3 L media for orthotopic xenografts. Six non obese diabetic severe combined immunodeficiency NOD SCID mice were each xenografted with 10BT73 cells stereotactically implanted into the right striatum. Seven days following implants mice were randomized into vehicle and drug cohorts and injected i.p. four days on three days off for a total of 10 doses. Drug treated mice received a 10 mg kg dose of compound 31 re suspended in 100 L 50 polyethylene glycol 300 PEG 300 Sigma Aldrich in water. Vehicle treated mice received an equal volume of 50 PEG 300 in water. Mice were euthanized with a lethal dose of sodium pentobarbitol followed by transcardiac perfusion of 4 paraformaldehyde PFA two hours following injection of the last drug dose. Brains were removed fixed in 4 PFA and cryosectioned at 12 m for assessment by histology and immunohistochemistry. Hematoxylin and eosin H E staining was performed according to standard protocols. Immunohistochemistry was performed by incubating with primary antibodies overnight at 4 C. followed by the Vectastain Elite mouse IgG or rabbit IgG kits Vector Laboratories and detection with DAB substrate and hematoxylin counterstaining Sigma Aldrich according to the manufacturer s instructions. Primary antibodies included STAT3 S727 Cell Signaling Technology and Ki67 Novocastra . Secondary antibodies included biotin conjugated goat anti rabbit Jackson Immunoresearch . Xenograft tumor cells undergoing apoptosis were also detected with the ApopTag Plus Peroxidase In Situ Apoptosis Detection Kit Chemicon International Inc. Temecula Calif. according to the manufacturer s instructions TUNEL assay . Histology and immunohistochemistry and TUNEL assay images were acquired using the Olympus Slide Scanner and OlyVia software at the University of Calgary Regenerational Unit in Neurobiology Microscopy facility.

The results of the hematoxylin eosin staining are reported in illustrating sections of NOD SCID mouse brains showing tumours from BT73 cells in control mice and in mice treated with inhibitor 31. Treatment with compound 31 resulted in significant decrease in tumour cells.

It has been shown herein that compound 31 is effective at reducing activated phospho STAT3 in tumours generated by orthotopically xenografted human brain tumour stem cells in the brains of NOD SCID mice accompanied by a decrease in proliferation and increased cell death. The other compounds of the present invention are anticipated to have the same properties. In fact other tests as reported hereinbefore have shown that compound 31 behave like other compounds tested. Here in this experiment on brain cancer compound 31 was used to demonstrate the general behavior of the compounds of the present invention.

Compounds 31 and 32 were given to three mice at 10 mg kg BID via IP for five days and blood was collected at two time points 30 min. and 300 min. for all mice. Plasma was separated from blood by centrifugation and stored at 20 C. until analysis. Brain was also collected from one mouse at each dose. Concentrations of compounds were determined using LC MS.

As can be seen on compound 31 was found to be present in the brain with different dosing 10 mg kg and 25 mg kg as assessed by LCMS. Compound 31 accumulates up to 0.7 M concentrations in the brain in mice models.

As can be seen from compound 31 accumulates up to 300 nM concentrations in the brain in mice models at 10 mg kg dosing.

As can by seen from compound 32 accumulates up to 1.2 M concentrations in the brain in mice models at 10 mg kg dosing.

Plasma concentration of compound 31 increased dose dependently from 0.24 M to 0.58 M for 10 and 25 mg kg respectively. However no compound was detected after 5 hr at both doses indicating a fast clearance. Plasma concentration did not change significantly between 30 min. and 300 min for both compounds 31 and 32. For compound 31 about 0.3 M compound was seen in the brain of 10 mg kg dosed mouse. The brain concentration of compound 32 was at 1.2 M for 10 mg kg dosed mouse. The above is a clear indication that the compounds of the present invention can cross the blood brai barrier.

Compounds were assessed for inhibition of cell proliferation in ErbB2 mammary breast tumour cell lines NIC containing the activated form of ErbB2 using a CyQuant Assay. Compound 31 was directly compared to BP 1 102 over a range of concentrations.

Three individual Mouse Mammary Tumour Virus ErbB2 mammary tumour cell lines NIC were resuspended in 10 FBS plus single quots DMEM media to a final concentration of 40 000 cells per 1 mL. Cells were plated at a concentration of 4 000 cells in 100 L of media per well on 96 well NUNC plates and incubated for 24 h hours at 37 C. plus 5 CO. After 24 hours the media was aspirated and replaced with either normal media media DMSO 1 1000 or media containing the appropriate concentration of drug BP1 102 5 M 10 M or 20 M or compound 31 also referred to herein as SH 04 54 5 M or 20 M . Each condition was repeated in quadruplicate. At predetermined time points at treatment 24 h 48 h and 72 h post treatment the media was removed from the cells and the plates were stored at 80 C. wrapped in tin foil. When needed all the plates were thawed to room temperature.

Invitrogen s CyQuant Cell Proliferation Assay kit was used to measure DNA content. Following their directions the cell lysis buffer was diluted 1 20 with water and then the CyQuant GR solution 1 400 in the lysis buffer. 200 L of the Cyquant solution was added to each well and the plate protected from light. The plates were then incubated for 2 5 minutes protected from light then read on a fluorescence microplate reader with filters for 480 nm excitation and 520 nm emission maxima. Quadruplicates were averaged and the error bars represent the S.E.M. In some cases the absorbance was normalized to the DMSO control.

In cells were plated at 4 000 cells per well in a 96 well plate incubated for 24 hours then treated with 31 at 5 M 10 M and 20 M for 24 48 and 72 hours. Plates were stored at 80 C. Plates were thawed and treated with Invitrogen s Cyquant Cell Proliferation Assay which measures DNA content. Fluorescence was measured using a fluorescence microplate reader with filters at 480 nm and 520 nm. Each data point was done in quadruplicate and error bars represent S.E.M.

In cells were plated at 4 000 cells per well in a 96 well plate incubated for 24 hours then treated with BP1 102 or compound 31 at 5 M for 24 48 and 72 hours. Plates were stored at 80 C. Plates were thawed and treated with Invitrogen s Cyquant Cell Proliferation Assay which measures DNA content. Fluorescence was measured using a fluorescence microplate reader with filters at 480 nm and 520 nm. Each data point was done in quadruplicate and error bars represent S.E.M.

As can be appreciated compound 31 is potent at 5 M in MMTV ErbB2 mammary tumour cell lines NIC completely inhibiting cell proliferation in 2071 NIC cells. In comparison with BP1 102 compound 31 was shown to be more potent over three different breast cancer NIC cell lines 2071 8518 and 9822.

While the disclosure has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it is understood that it is capable of further modifications and that this application is intended to cover any variation use or adaptation of the disclosure following in general the principles of the disclosure and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the disclosure pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and as follows in the scope of the appended claims

