---

title: Mobile messaging hub enabling enterprise office telephone numbers
abstract: A messaging hub provides communication services for user devices associated with an enterprise office telephone number. The messaging hub establishes a secure connection between the messaging hub local SMSC/MMSC and a data adapter of a unified communications service, provision the enterprise office telephone number for use in a global SMS/MMS network and delivers messages addressed to the enterprise office telephone number to selected user devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09271129&OS=09271129&RS=09271129
owner: HeyWire, Inc.
number: 09271129
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application having Ser. No. 13 441 105 entitled MESSAGING HUB SYSTEM filed Apr. 6 2012 that shares inventorship with the present application and which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application having Ser. No. 13 111 109 entitled SOCIAL MESSAGING HUB filed May 19 2011 that shares inventorship with the present application and which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application having Ser. No. 12 535 323 entitled SMS TECHNOLOGY FOR COMPUTERIZED DEVICES filed Aug. 4 2009 that shares inventorship with the present application and which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 61 137 918 entitled Apparatus and methods for TV applications filed Aug. 5 2008 61 164 705 entitled SMS Technology for Computerized Devices filed Mar. 30 2009 and 61 346 133 entitled MESSAGING SYSTEM AND DEVICES filed May 19 2010 that share inventorship with the present application. The entire teachings and contents of these Patent Applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present invention relates to messaging and communications and to mobile telephony text messaging instant messaging multimedia messaging enterprise office systems unified communications service personal computers and data enabled digital devices.

People around the world are confronted by a number of communications and writing devices which have evolved relatively recently from the separate areas of telephone communications networks wireless networks television or cable networks and computer networks and personal computers. The more recent devices mobile phones with message picture video texting personal digital devices for Internet browsing and computer based blogging and networking sites have been shaped in part by the separate networks of origin but the nature and capabilities of many of these now ubiquitous devices have both converged and also advanced quickly in different directions as the industries controlling each sector have capitalized on their market power reservoir of legacy subscribers and in some cases regulatory barriers and proprietary network equipment and connection protocols to introduce new consumer features often employing developments from other consumer products and aiming to lure subscribers by mimicking those products. However in doing so each industry has also been limited by its own equipment data transfer speeds and connection abilities.

Thus as digital imaging advanced and consumers learned to take and handle images and to attach the images to e mail messages imaging chipsets were incorporated into mobile telephones and the mobile phones were configured to display images and allow their transmission between phones. Text and message protocols allowed transmission of instant messages and coded standardized greetings and messages between phone users filling a niche for immediate portable personal communication that was not met by existing personal computer devices. Devices like the iPhone introduced in 2007 allowed a user to access his Internet based email from his mobile phone via a specially configured data connection with his mobile service provider and to exchange content via wireless connection to his personal computer.

However despite these developments blurring boundaries between the classical phone mobile telephone Internet wireless and television or cable networks there has not been a convergence. Rather although industry and government groups have promoted interface standards for several different classes of data or communication each industry has retained much of its special structure and the devices served by an industry such as mobile telephones may find their feature set constrained by intrinsic limitations of bandwidth and connectivity by available networking equipment base and by the level of contractual cooperation agreements of its provider. The many different classes of communications systems now available and the many separate provider networks in each class have also required the development of new supporting entities such as nationally or internationally extending registries aggregators exchanges and other entities in order to affect timely transfer of data messages and or entertainment content. This second level infrastructure imposes further constraints of the feasible or economically feasible set of features that a consumer may exercise. Thus for example mobile telephones have been augmented with a display and the ability to run small applications such as games MP3 players Internet browsers applications and email retrieval while personal computers have the capability to run larger programs employ wireless connectivity and perform voice over IP VOIP Internet communications. Various special purpose applications requiring cross platform connections may be provided or applications simulating cross platform capabilities may be developed by a service provider such as a television displayed chat session available for subscribers of a TV provider. However many other personal devices while having large data capacity ability to connect to another user device and ability to run entertainment apps may entirely lack the mobile telephone electronic circuitry necessary for exchanging mobile messages with telephone users. Additionally the delivery of messages in some messaging systems is affected by limitations of carrier networks and international boundaries. It is therefore desirable to provide a system for enhanced communication between personal devices.

Although email IM and web surfing can be monitored and audited at an Enterprise level the ability to monitor audit or filter an Enterprise s personnel s electronic communications in addition to securing corporate assets by such communications has not been possible with regard to SMS MMS previously due to the nature of traditional SMS MMS. Traditional SMS MMS is based on Signaling System No. 7 analog telephone signaling protocols SS7 switching technology and on a physically separate network to which an Enterprise has no visibility or access.

While personnel at an Enterprise may be using mobile phones or tablets that are provided and paid for by the Enterprise currently there is no method by which to determine what the SMS MMS communications is being used for e.g. company business personal business or a leak of confidential and proprietary information unlike other electronic communications methods digital email IM etc. which are easily tracked monitored. This is an issue especially for trade secrets financial data of publicly traded companies and Merger Acquisition activity information.

Enterprises have never had ability to monitor or audit a service that they do not manage such as the PSTN beyond rudimentary time based usage statistics. Carriers cannot retain the message content of SMS messages due to the sheer volume of the enormous amount of data based on the quantity of SMS messages that flow through its network. Enterprises have in some cases made it corporate policy that SMS MMS usage is NOT allowed e.g. some Wall St financial institutions have done this in an attempt to prevent leakage of sensitive data via SMS MMS. One barrier to solving this problem has always been the physical separation of the networks involved PSTN vs. Internet and technology SS7 vs. IP . The problem cannot be solved if the Enterprise cannot obtain physical access to the network where the problem is occurring. In theory carriers could technically solve the issue but the carriers would be prevented by privacy laws and even if granted relief from privacy laws the task due to the sheer volume of data would make it cost prohibitive to be justified.

SMS is a carrier service that an Enterprise has zero control over. Additionally carriers do not monitor or retain SMS message content except for very short finite periods . Thus an Enterprise even if suspicious of possible leaks of its proprietary data trade secrets financial M A it has no recourse to determine the source of these leaks as the carriers do not have the data retention policies or the ability to search historical SMS.

A unified communication UC service is the integration of real time communication services such as instant messaging chat presence information telephony including IP telephony video conferencing data sharing call control and speech recognition with non real time communication services such as unified messaging integrated voicemail e mail SMS and fax . UC is not necessarily a single product but a set of products that provides a consistent unified user interface and user experience across multiple devices and media types. There have been attempts at creating a single product solution however the most popular solution is dependent on multiple products. In its broadest sense UC can encompass all forms of communications that are exchanged via the medium of the TCP IP network to include other forms of communications such as Internet Protocol Television IPTV and Digital Signage Communications as they become an integrated part of the network communications deployment and may be directed as one to one communications or broadcast communications from one to many.

UC service allows an individual to send a message on one medium and receive the same communication on another medium. For example one can receive a voicemail message and choose to access it through e mail or a cell phone. If the sender is online according to the presence information and currently accepts calls the response can be sent immediately through text chat or video call. Otherwise it may be sent as a non real time message that can be accessed through a variety of media.

Landline phones also referred to as classical phones fixed line phone and associated phone numbers are not capable of mobile messaging functions. They are only used for voice functions and by their nature are not mobile. Thus in order to provide a mobile contact point users must secure a separate mobile phone number associated with a mobile device to receive services such as text messaging and other capabilities. In a business setting employees generally are assigned a business phone number and these business numbers are managed by a private branch exchange PBX or computerized branch exchange CBX .

Enterprise landline phones are not generally capable of mobile messaging functions. Associated enterprise phone numbers are not used for indicating the source or destination of SMS messages. Currently enterprises have no ability to monitor or audit SMS communications of its personnel or to apply spam filters to SMS message. Configurations disclosed herein substantially overcome the shortcomings of conventional messaging and enterprise communications systems. In particular a technique for enabling an enterprise office telephone number to be used for SMS MMS EMS message communication includes establishing a secure connection between the messaging hub local SMSC and a data adapter of a unified communications service identifying the enterprise office telephone number provisioning the enterprise office telephone number. The provisioning includes registering the enterprise office telephone number with a messaging hub having access to a local SMSC MMSC gaining access to a mobile message network using the enterprise office telephone number and registering the enterprise office telephone number in a database accessible by an SMSC MMSC with access to a global SMS MMS network. Such a technique enable the use of enterprise phone number as the source or destination of SMS MMS messages.

A further embodiment includes assigning an identification data element e.g. SPID ESPID VSPID AltSPID SIP URI to be used in conjunction with the enterprise office telephone number and homing the assigned identification data element within the messaging hub for message traffic delivery. Another embodiment includes receiving a message corresponding to the assigned identification data element determining whether a session exists over the secure connection to the data adapter queuing a message for later delivery in response to determining that no session exists and redirecting the message to the session in response to determining that the session exists.

A further embodiment includes auditing the received message. Such a technique enables an enterprise to audit business SMS messages in order to protect an enterprise s intellectual property and financial data. A further embodiment includes determining whether the received message is spam and deleting the received message in response to determining that the received message is spam. A further embodiment includes associating a plurality of user devices with the enterprise office telephone number and determining which ones of the plurality of user devices receive the received message. A further embodiment includes determining a location of one of the user devices communicating the location of one of the plurality of user devices to the unified communications service and delivering a location specific message to the one of the plurality of user devices.

A further embodiment includes sending an SMS MMS message by associating a DID number of the enterprise office telephone number with the message. A further embodiment includes auditing the message to be sent.

Identifying the enterprise office telephone number further comprises identifying a block of enterprise office telephone numbers.

A further embodiment includes providing a messaging application running on the messaging hub and within the unified communications service. A further embodiment includes providing a push service to transfer a message from the messaging hub to the unified communications service via the messaging application. A further embodiment includes providing a pull service to transfer a message from the messaging hub to the unified communications service via the messaging application. A further embodiment includes provisioning into a third party directory a carrier s directory a government directory or a government master directory.

A messaging hub for enterprise Short Message Service Multimedia Messaging Service Enhanced Messaging Service SMS MMS EMS communications includes an interface to a local SMSC MMSC at least one application server coupled to the local SMSC MMSC through the interface. The local SMSC MMSC is an interfaced to at least one external SMSC MMSC in an external SMS MMS EMS network. The hub further includes a database coupled to at least one database server coupled to the application server providing contact management data application management data and message management data an interface between the messaging hub and a data adapter of a unified communications service an application interface to a unified communications service a message retention queue for delaying delivery of SMS MMS messages and an interface to a push service.

In further embodiments the messaging hub includes an interface to a pull service an auditing engine including a spam filter a user device delivery selector and a location services engine.

A computer readable storage medium for tangibly storing thereon computer readable instructions for a messaging application having an on premise component and a messaging hub component the messaging hub component having for a method includes instructions for establishing a secure connection between the messaging hub local SMSC and a data adapter of a unified communications service identifying the enterprise office telephone number provisioning the enterprise office telephone number the provisioning comprising registering the enterprise office telephone number with a messaging hub having access to a local SMSC MMSC gaining access to the mobile message network using the non mobile enterprise office telephone number and registering the enterprise office telephone number in a database accessible by an SMSC MMSC with access to the global SMS MMS network. An on premise component includes instructions for transferring an enterprise office telephone number over the secure connection and sending and receiving SMS MMS messages over the secure connection. Such techniques assist protection detection of Enterprise s intellectual property and financial data.

It is to be understood that the features of the messaging hub can be embodied strictly as a software program as software and hardware or as hardware alone such as within a single processor or multiple processors or within an operating system or within a software application.

Other arrangements of embodiments disclosed herein include software programs to perform the method embodiment steps and operations summarized above and disclosed in detail below. More particularly a computer program product is one embodiment that has a computer readable medium including computer program logic encoded thereon that when performed in a computerized device provides associated operations providing test systems explained herein. The computer program logic when executed on at least one processor with a computing system causes the processor to perform the operations e.g. the methods indicated herein as embodiments of the invention. Such arrangements of the invention are typically provided as software code and or other data structures arranged or encoded on a computer readable medium such as an optical medium e.g. CD ROM floppy or hard disk or other media such as firmware or microcode in one or more ROM or RAM or PROM chips or as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or as downloadable software images in one or more modules shared libraries etc. The software or firmware or other such configurations can be installed onto a computerized device to cause one or more processors in the computerized device to perform the techniques explained herein as embodiments of the invention. Software processes that operate in a collection of computerized devices such as in a group of data communications devices or other entities can also provide the system of the invention. Embodiments of the system can be distributed between many software processes on several data communications devices or all processes could run on a small set of dedicated computers or on one computer alone.

A messaging hub as disclosed herein enables users to have one telephone number for their business communications including voice and mobile messaging versus having two separate telephone numbers one for office and one for mobile . The messaging hub and related applications and interfaces are referred to herein as messaging hub or messaging hub system.

In certain embodiments the messaging hub enables the monitoring auditing and filtering of SMS MMS communications by Enterprise personnel without changing the basic function of SMS MMS by operating SMS MMS over IP technology and implementing tools for inspection purposes on the messaging hub to enable Enterprises to collect or alert when certain triggers are activated. The method of operating SMS MMS over IP and implementing specifically for Enterprises e.g. utilize landline phone number assigned to Enterprise personnel or give out new virtual phone numbers facilitates such an environment.

Now referring to an exemplary messaging hub operates in network environment and can communicate with and relay messages to user devices for example a data enabled mobile phone a data enabled WiFi phone and other data enabled devices not shown such as a laptop netbook tablet and a smart phone. The messaging hub communicates with a unified communication service UCS in one embodiment over a secure connection e.g. VPN connection . The unified communication service generally includes a PBX or alternatively a CBX not shown and communicates data and number provisioning information over an inbound data adapter and outbound data adapter operating within the secure VPN connection . In addition to phone numbers data transferred between the unified communication service and the messaging hub includes but is not limited to 

administrative information such as origin destination and other custom and proprietary data associated with the messages carrier or provider information 

SMS MMS EMS messages can also be sent and received directly between UCS to and from data enabled devices relayed through Local SMSC MMSC or global SMSC MMSC if the UCS is equipped to accommodate SMS MMS traffic.

Customer Enterprise skinned clients is a cosmetic enhancement to the smart phone app e.g. smart phone app but it provides a unique distinguishing separation of the native mobile SMS MMS client if present from the Enterprise SMS MMS client which is associated to two different phone numbers. By having a cosmetically different SMS MMS client it allows physical separation of the messages associated with each phone number. In addition it allows a cosmetic customization to show affinity to the specific Enterprise of the user.

In operation the messaging hub establishes a secure connection to a local short message service center multimedia message service center SMSC MMSC and the data adapters and of unified communications service . The SMSC MMSC is a network element in the network environment . Its purpose is to store forward convert and deliver SMS MMS messages. A local SMSC MMSC is one that is either owned or operated or is accessible by the local operating entity associated with the message hub .

The messaging hub identifies an enterprise office telephone number provided by the unified communications service . In one embodiment the messaging hub identifies a block or pool of Enterprise office landline phone numbers e.g. 617 555 0001 to 617 555 9999 to be mobile messaging enabled. The messaging hub provisions the enterprise office telephone number and then messages can be directed to the enterprise office telephone number and received on one or more of the user s data enabled devices. The provisioning process is detailed below in conjunction with .

Now referring to the exemplary messaging hub operates in the network environment which includes global messaging infrastructure . The messaging hub includes one or more processors and is coupled to the network environment and global messaging infrastructure through a firewall . The firewall is typically located at a messaging hub hosting facility.

The global messaging infrastructure includes but is not limited to a local Short Message Service Center Multimedia Messaging Service Center SMSC MMSC a third party SMS MMS aggregator also referred to a SMS MMS aggregator a billing and provisioning system an SMS MMS Gateway SMS MMS GW messaging gateways and a cellular phone infrastructure . Other components of the global messaging infrastructure include an external Global SMSC MMSC network and additional SMS MMS Gateways and other SMSCs MMSCs and billing and provisioning systems provided by additional mobile carrier service providers not shown . The local SMSC MMSC and the billing and provisioning system are typically operated by a mobile carrier service provider. The Global SMSC MMSC network is typically operated by multiple mobile carriers and third parties. The messaging gateways include connections to IM services for example AOL instant messenger AIM Yahoo Messenger Windows Live Messenger Jabber Skype Tencent QQ ICQ and GoogleTalk gTalk and other networks such as Facebook and Twitter.

In one embodiment the messaging hub communicates with the systems in the global messaging infrastructure e.g. local SMSC MMSC the third party SMS MMS aggregator and the billing and provisioning system using various network protocols including the Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Wireless Application Protocol WAP Signaling Transport SIGTRAN protocol or SS7 protocol. The SMPP protocol is a telecommunications industry protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities. The HTTP and WAP protocols are a telecommunications industry protocols for exchanging MMS messages between MMS peer entities.

In this embodiment the link between the messaging hub and the global messaging infrastructure is secured by the firewall using a virtual private network VPN connection with HTTPS using 128 bit or higher encryption for example 1024 bit 3DES SHA1 encryption. Messages are transferred over SMPP link and provisioning and single sign on SSO XML and SOAP messages and other control traffic are interchanged over control link . In another embodiment messages are transferred over SIGTRAN SS7 over IP depending on the connection e.g. a connection to a European Mobile Operator .

The messaging hub is connected via the Internet or a dedicated connection to the global messaging infrastructure that relays messages between existing customer equipment for example a mobile phone a data enabled mobile phone a data enabled WiFi phone and other data enabled devices not shown such as a laptop netbook tablet and a smart phone. The mobile phone can be connected to the messaging hub over the cellular phone infrastructure through the local SMSC MMSC using an SMS protocol. The messaging hub is connected via the Internet or a dedicated connection to the unified communications service of one or more business enterprises. The Global SMSC MMSC network is also connected to the cellular phone infrastructure . The data enabled mobile phone can be connected to the messaging hub over the cellular phone infrastructure using a data connection provided by OTA WAP protocols. A data enabled WiFi phone can be connected to the messaging hub via a WiFi connection to the Internet. It is understood that a mobile phone can be data enabled via both a WAP connection and a WiFi connection. The data enabled WiFi phone is sometimes referred to as a dual mode phone if it can also connect over WAP.

A laptop personal computer can be connected to the messaging hub via a wired Internet connection or a wireless Internet connection not shown . Other mobile portable data enabled devices not shown include but are not limited to a portable media players personal digital assistants Wi Fi mobile platforms pad tablet computers portable e Readers personal computers portable game players game consoles and netbook computers which can be connected to the messaging hub via the Internet using a WiFi wired or other wireless connection. These devices the data enabled mobile phone and the data enabled WiFi phone are collectively referred to as a data enabled device or devices and these devices generally establish an Internet protocol IP session or connection with the messaging hub . Some data enabled devices interface with the messaging hub using a client browser and other data enabled devices interface with the messaging hub using a client software component also referred to as a client application or simply app . The client browser communication to a corresponding web application and the client application app are collectively referred to as application .

In operation and as described below in more detail the messaging hub obtains a plurality of unique identifiers which in one embodiment are telephone numbers acquired through or serviced by a competitive local exchange carrier CLEC local exchange carrier LEC or other provider that is authorized to issue or service registered phone numbers and the set of numbers so issued may be serviced by that carrier s network another carrier network or by a separate entity or sub entity such as a network unaffiliated virtual operator NUVO that serves as the service provider to users and functions as a destination carrier to receive messages directed to its telephone numbers from the SMS aggregator an SMS operator e.g. a mobile carrier a content provider or another NUVO and to provide an Internet interface for delivery of the messages to users data enabled devices .

The messaging hub assigns a user of a data enabled device a unique identifier from the plurality of unique identifiers and the messaging hub associates the unique identifier with a data enabled device identifier. The data enabled device identifier includes but is not limited to a network address a Unique Device Identifier UDID a Media Access Control address MAC address a International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI a Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID a Electronic Serial Number ESN and a CPU serial number of the data enabled device . The messaging hub registers the association between the unique identifier with a data enabled device identifier in a database. After the user is assigned a unique identifier a userid and password is when the application is started. When the user registers the enabled device and signs in to an IM service or media account e.g. AIM Yahoo Messenger Windows Live Messenger and GoogleTalk Facebook Twitter etc. the account information is stored in certain embodiments on the user s data enabled device in a mini database for app. Previously stored login signon information can be retrieved in order to sign on the user automatically.

In one embodiment the user is given a registered phone number and unique IP addressable identification. The IP addressable identification is a connectionless method by which the user supplied email address supplied as part of the registration process for contact purposes is combined with the unique registered phone number. By affecting such a combination of two unique identifiers each supplied by separate parties a unique identification is created that can be located in a connectionless manner on the Internet.

For inbound messages i.e. sent to the data enabled device the messaging hub receives the text message from the global messaging infrastructure e.g. message service local SMSC MMSC or SMS aggregator . The message is directed to the user s data enabled device having the registered unique identifier obtained from the text message source and the messaging hub provides the message to an inbound service establishes a connection between a data enabled device and the inbound service and pushes the text message from the inbound service to an application or web browser running on the data enabled device .

For outbound messages i.e. sent from the data enabled device . The messaging hub receives the text message from the data enabled device including a destination identifier for the message processing the message and provide the message to SMS destination through the global messaging infrastructure e.g. local SMSC MMSC or SMS aggregator for delivery to the message recipient.

The messaging hub can submit multiple messages in one transmission using a 1 to many feature in conjunction with the application i.e. web client or smart phone app . The messaging hub transfers messages between data enabled devices without the use of the global message infrastructure even if phone numbers are used as the addresses. Provisioning and single sign on SSO are incorporated in the messaging hub such that once a registered phone number and other user information is stored in database connections and logins can be established automatically.

As described below in conjunction with the messaging hub may be configured to interface and exchange messages with SMS MMS capable mobile phones and smart phones and operates such that incoming mobile text messages are transparently routed locally or internationally through existing SMS MMS delivery organizations in the messaging infrastructure.

More generally embodiments of the messaging hub include an application which enables a user sometimes referred to herein as a subscriber to perform SMS MMS EMS or chat activities using a data enabled device such as an iPod Touch iPad portable e Reader a personal computer a portable game player a game console a laptop a television set or a netbook computer all of which can connect to the Internet. Messaging is carried out bi directionally between the data enabled device non telephony device smartphone or other data devices and other SMS MMS capable devices. The messaging hub is implemented without any add ons that is without requiring the user to attach accessory electronic devices and is implemented via a the messaging hub that maintains an Internet connected server that interfaces with certain wireless messaging facilities in the global messaging infrastructure to establish device to wireless communications. In different embodiments the messaging hub may be a separate dedicated entity or may be a service entity set up within a mobile service provider to service data enabled devices of some of the provider s subscribers. Further the messaging hub may provide applications for managing the address books messages and account information of the user.

When the messaging hub is a separate message service center entity the messaging hub operations may be incorporated by one or more mobile providers to extend their subscriber service capabilities and the provider entity may provide dedicated connections for affecting coordination between services call logs and billing for the affected accounts.

Features of the messaging hub may be provided within or as external hosting services communicating with an existing mobile network provider as a web based application using advanced web capabilities and may be configured to handle all forms of messaging for the subscribers. In such embodiments a web client application provides the user with a single integrated interface wherein the subscriber can view or send SMS MMS EMS messages tweets integrated with Twitter chat for which the system supports MSN or AIM or Yahoo or GoogleTalk or Facebook or other similar IM service as the chat client or status for example Facebook Status. Subscription Unsubscription operations can be performed from a web client running on any data enabled device that supports standard Internet browsers or from IP based applications.

Now referring to another embodiment of a messaging hub operates with other data enabled devices having additional messaging and application features supported by the mobile carrier provider and the phone manufacturer. In one embodiment a data enabled device client app also referred to as smart phone app is loaded on the data enabled device through one of several mechanisms including but not limited to 

The data enabled device client app also referred to as smart phone app communicates with the messaging hub via the REST web services . The first time the data enabled device runs the smart phone app the application requests an Auth Token from the REST service. The Auth Token is delivered by the web service via the Push Notification Server . This Auth Token is stored by the smart phone app and passed to the Push Notification service with every subsequent call for verification security purpose.

After getting the Auth Token the smart phone app requests a telephone number. This number is then used by the smart phone app to send and receive SMS MMS EMS messages. The REST web services deliver a unique identifier e.g. a telephone number and also create a User login account that can be used for logging onto the web application. The inbound messages enter the messaging hub through the SMS provider which connects to the inbound service . The inbound service pushes out a Message Received notification via the Push Notification Server using the notification queue and the queue listener . When the smart phone app gets the Message Received Notification it retrieves the message from the messaging hub through a connection to the messaging hub REST services . All the notifications are delivered to the Notification Queue from where they are picked up by the Queue Listener and delivered to the Push Notification Server . The Hub application can initiate a request to upload contacts from the data enabled device . This request goes through the notification server and the smart phone app uploads the contacts by calling the REST service . Uploaded contacts allow the messaging hub to cross reference the contacts allowing a user to send a message via name and be notified of a received message by name instead of phone number. Additionally locator tracking features by name are enabled by contact information. Outbound messages are process by the REST web services as part of the Hub application . The messages are transferred to the SMS provider for delivery through the global messaging infrastructure .

To insure that a text message is delivered to the right device and to prevent anyone spoofing the address when a push notification is not available the messaging hub architecture utilizes a session based communications model requiring authentication by login with userid and password registered devices or a non registered device is being used e.g. a PC Thus it is virtually impossible to have a combination of an unregistered unauthorized or unrecognized device receive messages without some form of legitimate userid password combination to establish the session. The user device delivery selector determines which of possibly several data enabled devices belonging to a user and registered with the messaging hub should receive a particular message according to one or more policies or preferences of the user and the enterprise.

In one specific embodiment supporting the Apple iOS environment i.e. Apple iOS devices iPhone iPod touch iPad etc. the Push Notification Server is an Apple Push Notification Server. When used with a smart phone such as an iPhone a Droid a Windows Mobile based phone or a tablet or other device phone having the system may also be configured to operate with a Pull service.

The PULL service is similar to the PUSH service described above but instead of messages being pushed they are pulled to the data enabled device . Here in the PULL model the smart phone app on the data enabled device e.g. phone tablet etc. issues a query which is routed to a PULL notification server to retrieve any available messages available to the phone number. In other words the data enabled device poll the PULL notification server on the messaging hub to see if there are any unread messages available for the user.

The SMS provider is interfaced to a web farm having one or more servers collectively referred to as web server . The servers store the SMS MMS EMS messages received and SMS MMS EMS messages to be delivered in conjunction with database server and database .

The servers also support a Hub application which runs in conjunction an application on data enabled device here laptop or smart phone The web farm is coupled to a database server and corresponding database which is used to store user information including the association between the assigned unique identifiers and data enabled device identifiers. The database also stores and provides contact management data application management data and message management data.

The messaging hub further includes a common message conversation queue which is interfaced to the database and the message processing engine . The database server is connected to a message processing engine which has an associated message processing database not shown . Database server in conjunction with database primarily stores SMS messages and certain user information and it is used when interfacing to the global messaging infrastructure . Database is used in conjunction with other messaging functions such as IM Chat etc.

The messaging hub further includes a load balancer connected to the servers in web farm enabling a round robin mechanism for distribution of the requests and connected to the clients outside messaging service operators and messaging queues. A location service engine is connected to the database and to a Hub UCS application . The messaging hub further includes a message auditing engine and associated SPAM filter connected to the database and the message processing engine .

The components of the messaging hub in one embodiment are developed in C C JAVA or other suitable programming language and include web servers such as Apache Microsoft Internet Information Services platform IIS or other suitable server systems operating on a UNIX Microsoft or other operating system platform to store and communicate messages to Internet devices. An exemplary software framework for the messaging hub includes the following 

The Hub application on servers runs for example on a .Net framework and is hosted on a Microsoft IIS7 system on a windows 2008 server.

The database is a relational database implemented in this embodiment using a 2008 SQL Server and the message processing engine is implemented as a COMET server using Frozen Mountain s COMET engine using .net framework on IIS7 .

In operation the SMS provider determines from the destination of a received message where to route the message through the global messaging infrastructure . The message may be routed through to one of the SMSC the SMS aggregator the SMS GW or other communications entity operated by a mobile operator aggregator or some other intermediary.

The messaging hub consolidates message delivery into a common message conversation queue and intermixes messages from other messaging services including presence activity and geographic location data into the common message conversation queue . This consolidation allows the messaging hub to enable personal replies to be threaded back to the user s inbox so individual chat conversations can continue across multiple data enabled devices to provide multi screen messaging.

A user can read a message from anywhere and respond on any device with the same phone number. Chat based systems such as Facebook are operated using the common message conversation queue to facilitate combined common message conversations.

When used to support multiple mobile network providers advantageously the messaging hub is configurable for each provider. An instance of the messaging hub is set up for each Enterprise and includes separate instances of the database . It is understood that the various server functions of the messaging hub could be run on a single computer or multiple computers storage could be provided by individual storage media or a storage area network.

In operation the Load Balancer performs the function of ensuring distribution of incoming and outgoing messages are spread uniformly across the deployed number of servers to prevent I O bottlenecks and delays that can occur if all or majority of requests are grouped at a single finite server. The Location Service is a processing engine which receives assorted geographic information from client devices some in exact form such as latitude and longitude data derived from the client device which could be from GPS if so equipped. Additional forms of geo location data may be derived from cellular radio tower triangulation data from the device client data if the device is so equipped. Another form could be the IP address assigned to the device which the Location Service in conjunction with IP address geo location data as obtained or provided can calculate the approximate geo location of the device. The geo location data can be provided as a service to relevant interested entities of the location of the device at any given time period or point such as the client user or an Enterprise of which may be the master account holder of the device and or services.

Message auditing provides the function of logging of message traffic encompassing time date duration origin destination and network related data. The purpose of such data can be used for accounting purposes financial technical law enforcement compliance requests data statistical analysis and archival retention for future reference. All or set filtered messages that flow through the UCS can be set to record desired auditing data.

The SPAM filter function provides removal and or quarantine function of SMSMMS EMS messages that are determined by a pre defined set of criteria to be unwanted or of risk to the health of the UCS and its clients. The pre defined set of criteria for filtering can be set by the owner of the UCS or the Enterprise or the individual user or any combination of. The quarantine function enables the isolation of SMS MMS EMS messages for further review at a future time period. Additional criteria of the UCS SPAM filter may encompass the use of frequency of sending or receiving SMS MMS EMS messages within a specific time period. If the criteria are set where a human cannot possibly send a predetermined number of messages per minute or any other interval is exceeded from a specific client then the filter has the ability to convey immediate shutdown of that client or removal of messages being generated from that client from the UCS. All messages or defined subset of messages are passed through the SPAM filter.

Location services are provided by the messaging hub in conjunction with location service engine . Location services include for example determining a location of one of the user devices communicating the location of one of the data enabled device to the unified communications service and delivering a location specific message to the located data enabled device . Location can be determined through use of GPS service information if the data enabled device has a GPS chip. Additionally cell tower triangulation information is also available if the data enabled device is equipped with cellular network access and is active. Another location determination alternative is IP address allocation by the data enabled device . IP address blocks are assigned by geographic areas in the world and depending on the internet service provider ISP information can be provided to locate the data enabled device within a reasonable physical geo location of the data enabled device .

Landline numbers are not typically registered with any of the operators or SMS MMS aggregators within the mobile ecosystem. When SMS MMS messages are processed by a mobile operator or SMS MMS aggregator the aggregator or operator needs to find a registered number in the various directories to determine if the number is a legitimate and active number and where to route the SMS MMS message. All phone numbers are associated with an owner of record in the various databases in the mobile ecosystem and the appropriate routing destination is determined by who the owner of record is for the particular number in question.

The Messaging hub system enables recognition and routing capabilities by provisioning landline numbers into the various databases in the mobile ecosystem. When an entity such as any mobile operator or SMS MMS aggregator receives a message for routing upon query to one or more of the industry s databases it determines who is the owner of record for the message based on the destination phone number of the SMS MMS message.

For example in one embodiment a message with a destination phone number of 1 212 555 1234 that was provisioned by Messaging hub into the various databases is identified as Messaging hub as the owner of record and thus routed to Messaging hub servers and network for handling. Upon receipt by Messaging hub the SMS provider in conjunction with the web servers which maintain state and session information and using records in the database can determine the actual user of the phone number and locate the active devices by the user wherever the devices is using the Internet then deliver the message to the device or queue the message if no session is possible with any of the user devices associated with the user at the time the message arrives. The directories including these databases are situated in a local or regional network. There are copies of a government master directories and subsets of the master government directories which are used and provided by the government.

Provisioning of the enterprise office telephone numbers obtained from the UCS through UCS application and Hub UCS application in the messaging hub into all the assorted databases public and private in the global messaging infrastructure requires recognition and allowance by the mobile operators for mobile messages from non mobile operator sources to flow through the network. This recognition and allowance is provided in advance of provisioning of enterprise office telephone numbers. As a result of provisioning by the message hub the enterprise office telephone numbers reside and are registered in databases that are queried by the SMSC MMSCs.

Every SMS MMS message originating or terminating from a predefined set of enterprise office telephone numbers is also associated with a specific or group of specific an identification data element for example a Service Profile Identifier SPID electronic SPID eSPID virtual SPID vSPID alternate SPID AltSPID identifier of a second service provider collectively referred to as SPID or a Session Initiation Protocol SIP uniform resource identifier URI SIP URI in a database for identification purposes of the originating terminating enterprise. A SIP URI is very similar to an Internet URL and is generally a way to assign an IP address by pseudo name to resources as the owner i.e. accomplishes the same task as a SPID but using Internet IP technology .

A Letter of Authorization LOA is required in order to provision phone numbers into the various industry databases from the owner of record of the phone numbers. LOA s are business legal agreements contracts between two parties that authorize from the owner of record for specified phone numbers to allow the designee permission to use the specified phone numbers for the specific purpose listed in the LOA. LOA s can be generated for a single phone number. However the normal LOA will cover a range of phone numbers such as 617 555 0000 through 617 555 9999 or whatever range is designated. If the target phone numbers are not sequentially numbered then each number would be targeted number would be listed in the LOA.

For example if X Corp is the owner of record of a phone number but someone else for example the Messaging hub will route messages on behalf of an some X Corp employee user of the phone number an LOA is required by all of the database owner operators to allow provisioning into the database of an alternate route for the intended phone number. In other words the LOA grants permission to Messaging hub to utilize the phone number for an alternative purpose as specified in the LOA. Here Messaging hub uses the LOA to enable SMS MMS alternative routing. The LOA is the permission to use the phone numbers for the specific purpose here for SMS EMS traffic.

A Service Profile Identifier SPID is a number that identifies a specific carrier network or subset network of a larger carrier network. A Session Initiation Protocol Uniform Resource Identifier SIP URI is a data set that identifies a specific carrier network subset network of a larger carrier network network service provider virtual network service provider or service provider. When an enterprise obtains telephony service a telephone company assigns a SPID to the line. The first digits identify the telephone number called the Directory Number DN . All SMS messages are associated with a particular an identification data element e.g. SPID or SIP URI for identification ownership association purposes and the SPIDs or SIP URIs are processed by Messaging hub . The an identification data element e.g. SPID or SIP URI indicates that for example an SMS message is coming from or being sent to Enterprise XYZ Corporation. Handling the identification data element is part of the provisioning process. When messaging hub provisions a phone number or block range of numbers an identification data element is associated with each number to identify the associated Enterprise user of those numbers.

In one embodiment E.164 numbers are used. E.164 is an ITU T recommendation that defines the international public telecommunication numbering plan used in the PSTN and some other data networks. It also defines the format of telephone numbers. E.164 numbers can have a maximum of fifteen digits and are usually prefixed with a . To actually dial such numbers from a normal fixed line phone the appropriate international call prefix must be used.

The identification data elements e.g. SPID ESPID VSPID and AltSPID are generated by different organizations. The OCN SPIDs are generated by NECA National Exchange Carrier Association in North America. In the rest of the world it is handled by its counterpart organizations. ESPID VSPID and AltSPID are generated by a variety of organizations including NetNumber TNS SAP Syniverse MACH Neustar and BICS. ESPID VSPID and AltSPID are private proprietary versions of the SPID. They are used by the private databases operated by NetNumber and others to route traffic associated with that particular ESPID VSPID AltSPID. The ESPIDs VSPIDs and AltSPIDs can be used to denote sub category traffic of a larger SPID e.g. AT T to create sub categories under AT T.

The identification data elements e.g. SIP URIs are generated by the owning organizations of the service provider of the services being provided to the Enterprise for the non mobile messaging services. Its purpose is to provide a uniform standard network identification format based upon industry standards utilizing conventional and accepted Internet addressing mechanisms that enable the location of the owning service provider network to be discoverable for routing purposes. It is understood that a SIP URI refers to refers to an Internet IP location address while an SPID is a label however both serve a similar identification purpose.

provisioning the specific office number or block of office landline phone numbers into mobile ecosystem including assigning unique SPID or other network identifier of its unique SMS MMS traffic for the specific enterprise business and

provisioning specified block of numbers to databases of all mobile entities involved in SMS MMS traffic routing e.g. Verizon AT T Sybase Syniverse etc. . After provisioning the SMS MMS routers and handlers in the mobile network recognize the DID s associated with provisioned Enterprise business as belonging to a particular identification data element e.g. SPID or other network identifier and as such will route appropriately based on assigned SPID or SIP URI to the messaging hub . Whenever any SMS MMS router or handler within the mobile network encounters a message associated with the corresponding assigned identification data element the router will either direct the inbound messages toward the messaging hub designated for handling that identification data element or be routed to the appropriate routers or servers for processing for outbound messages.

As part of provisioning the identification data element assigned to Enterprise business is homed within the messaging hub servers and message processing components for specific Enterprise business traffic for delivery in both directions based on the identification data element . Provisioned Enterprise business DID traffic is handled as follows 

Outbound messages MO the user of the Enterprise business landline DID sending the SMS MMS message has the landline DID associated as the origin DID of the SMS MMS message and

Inbound messages MT the destination Enterprise business SMS MMS message traffic will be processed by redirection at the messaging hub to the IP session assigned for that destination landline DID if no session exists at the time of message delivery the message will be queued for later delivery when an IP session for the landline DID is established 

IP sessions between messaging hub servers and users of Enterprise business landline DID s are setup automatically between the software clients i.e. data enabled device client app on mobile devices and or fixed landline terminals e.g. desk phones with text display capabilities upon initiation by the user or other automated mechanisms under control of the Enterprise user or other administrative entities. Some desk phones if the phone has a text display and appropriate intelligence in the form of processing capabilities CPU memory etc. similar to a mobile phone handset or tablet or PC with the appropriate software for the desk phone could display and send SMS messages as well.

The messaging hub and provisioning process enables a person associated with an enterprise to use his or her enterprise office telephone number landline number for a new purpose mobile messaging. Mobile messaging using the landline number can be accomplished on any mobile IP device in the world where there is IP connectivity to send and receive mobile messages using his or her office landline number. This allows a person to have one telephone number for their business communications including voice and mobile messaging in contrast to having two separate telephone numbers one for office and one for mobile .

In flowchart diagrams the overall process of enabling an enterprise office telephone number to be used for SMS MMS EMS message communication. In step the messaging hub establishes a secure connection between the messaging hub local SMSC and a data adapter of a unified communications service and identifies the enterprise office telephone number in step . In step the enterprise office telephone number is provisioned by registering the enterprise office telephone number with a messaging hub having access to a local SMSC MMSC in step gaining access to the mobile message network using the enterprise office telephone number in step and registering the enterprise office telephone number in a database accessible by an SMSC MMSC with access to the global SMS MMS network e.g. messaging infrastructure in step . In certain embodiments provisioning occurs into a third party directory a carrier s directory a government directory or a government master directory. An example of a third party directory includes the Tata Telecom Directory services Indian conglomerate that provides global directories for carriers . Examples of government master directories include Neustar the Number Portability database and Ericsson the LERG which is all North American phone numbers and their routes . Copies of a government mater directories and subsets of the master government directories are used and or provided by various governments. It is understood that in some jurisdictions e.g. North America it is possible to provision into common databases while in other jurisdictions a similar effect is obtained by provisioning into separate operator databases thereby having a combined effect of provisioning into a common database.

In step an identification data element to be used in conjunction with the enterprise office telephone number assigning is assigned and in step the assigned identification data element within the messaging hub is homed for message traffic delivery. As part of provisioning the identification data element assigned to enterprise office telephone number is homed within messaging hub servers for specific enterprise business traffic for delivery in both directions based on the identification data element . Every SMS message originating or terminating from a predefined set of enterprise office telephone numbers will be associated with a specific or group of specific identification data elements in a table for identification purposes of the originating terminating enterprise.

Delivery of messages is facilitated by the use of a push service provided by the messaging hub to transfer a message from the messaging hub to the unified communications service via the messaging application. In other embodiments delivery of messages is facilitated by the use of a pull service to transfer a message from the messaging hub to the unified communications service via the messaging application.

In step a plurality of user devices is associated with the enterprise office telephone number and it is determined which ones of the plurality of user devices receive the received message at step .

At step a location of one of the user devices is determined. The location of the user device is determined by its registered IP address at that moment on the global Internet provided as part of the session information data when the device connected to the messaging hub which provides the network routing information for the message through standard TCP IP networking protocols. At step the location one of the user devices is communicated to the unified communications service and a location specific message is delivered to the located user device at step .

At step an SMS MMS message is sent by associating the direct inward dial DID number or the enterprise office telephone number with the message and at step the message to be sent is audited. At step it is determined whether the message to be sent is in violation of predetermined data content policies and in response to determining that the message is in violation an alert of the message violation is signaled the message violation is logged and it is determined whether to allow the violating message to be sent. It is understood that if a message cannot be sent under certain circumstances including communication problems with the local SMSC or other carriers the message can be queued for later delivery.

An enterprise in communication with the messaging hub can monitor audit and track SMS communications by its personnel with the implementation of messaging hub Enterprise services for SMS MMS communications. The SMS MMS client software on the Enterprise personnel s mobile devices and PC s in combination with the messaging hub server side monitoring and auditing functions can be set through parameters to search and trigger based on whatever keywords e.g. merger acquisition stock price etc. and or phrase e.g. . . . we re going to miss our quarterly numbers . . . and or patterns e.g. messages being sent received to certain area codes numbers high activity during certain periods of time of month quarter etc. .

In addition the ability to monitor and search SMS MMS communications from outside an Enterprise is provided by the messaging hub when the Enterprise personnel communicate with third parties on the global PSTN via SMS MMS. For example an enterprise personnel John using having a data enabled devices and an enterprise office telephone number receives SMS message direct to his enterprise office telephone number from his buddy Tom. Tom is not using a phone number associated with and enterprise UCS connected to the messaging hub but is using for example a standard SMS service from a carrier e.g. AT T . In such a scenario even though Tom is using standard SS7 based SMS service the message and its contents are completely available to the Enterprise for auditing e.g. Message Auditing engine and filtering e.g. Spam Filter purposes because it is routed through Messaging hub servers to reach John . Embodiments disclosed herein provide the capability for Enterprises to monitor and audit its employees SMS MMS communications to protect its intellectual property and financial data.

While configurations of the system and method have been particularly shown and described with references to configurations thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention. As an example the order of processing steps in the flow charts is not limited to the order shown herein. Accordingly the present invention is not limited by the example configurations provided above.

