---

title: Managing multiple and/or repeated out of office notification periods
abstract: An out of office auto-response system that generates a calendaring user interface through which multiple out of office periods can be managed. The calendaring user interface enables a user to define, simultaneously view, and/or modify, multiple out of office periods during which auto-response messages will be generated. The out of office periods of the disclosed system are manageable as a specific type of calendar entries, and/or as a settable attribute of various types of calendar entries (e.g. vacation type calendar entries, meeting type calendar entries, etc.). The system generates user interface objects that allow a user to define an out of office period as repeated. The repeated office action may be defined as repeated a user-specified number of times, and over a user-specified interval, e.g. daily, weekly, monthly, yearly, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384475&OS=09384475&RS=09384475
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09384475
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130709
---
The disclosed system relates generally to out of office notification systems and more specifically to a mechanism for managing multiple and or repeated out of office notification periods.

As it is generally known contemporary used electronic mail systems often include some kind of auto responder system typically referred to as an out of office feature and or sometimes as an away auto responder or vacation auto responder . In existing systems the out of office mechanism is integral to the electronic mail system and allows the user to specify a range of dates during which they will be out of the office. Existing systems then cause the electronic mail system to automatically respond to messages received during the specified dates. The range of dates that the user can specify for the out of office auto response period can be at any point in the future. However a significant shortcoming of existing systems is the lack of any way for a user to set up more than one out of office period at a time. The out of office period is not treated as a calendar entry and is not visible to the user through their electronic calendaring system making it difficult to plan meetings and activities.

Thus it would be desirable to have a new system for managing out of office periods that allows a user to set up more than one out of office period at a time and that also provides integration of out of office periods into the user s electronic calendaring system and user interface.

To address the above described and other shortcomings of existing systems a new out of office auto response system is disclosed. The new system generates a calendaring user interface through which multiple out of office periods can be managed. The calendaring user interface of the disclosed system enables a user to define simultaneously view and or modify multiple out of office periods during which auto response messages will be generated. The out of office periods of the disclosed system are manageable as a specific type of calendar entries and or as a settable attribute of various types of calendar entries e.g. vacation type calendar entries meeting type calendar entries etc. .

The disclosed system further generates user interface objects that allow the user to define an out of office period as repeated. A repeated office action is automatically repeated a user specified number of times or indefinitely based on a user specified interval e.g. daily weekly monthly yearly etc. The out of office time periods can also be individually specified on a non repeating basis e.g. for a one week period in the current month a two day period in the following month etc.

Thus there is disclosed a system for managing out of office periods that allows a user to set up more than one out of office period at a time that includes automatically repeated out of office periods and that provides integration of out of office notification periods into the user s electronic calendaring system and user interface as calendar entries.

As shown in in an illustrative embodiment of the disclosed system examples of Client Systems include a Client System having a Collaboration Platform Client that generates a Collaboration Platform User Interface a Handheld Device having a Handheld Device Client that generates a Handheld Device User Interface and a Client System having a Web Application Client that generates a Web Application User Interface . Server System s include a Calendar Server API Application Programming Interface a Busy Time Task and an Out of Office Server API . In one embodiment the Calendar Server API may be part of and or associated with an electronic calendaring application server or the like and the Out of Office Server API may be part of and or associate with an electronic mail application server. Further in the illustrative embodiment of Server System s includes a User Electronic Calendar and or Electronic Mail Database storing electronic calendar user data e.g. calendar entries and the like and or electronic mail user data e.g. messages settings etc. for users such as users of Client Systems . Further in the illustrative embodiment of an Out of Office Responder Configuration Database stores data related to turning on and turning off automatic responses for specific users. While the Out of Office Server API is shown in as logically separate from the Busy Time Task these components may alternatively both be embodied within a single task or process.

During operation of the embodiment shown in the disclosed system can be invoked from a variety of types of applications such as client server based applications shown for purposes of illustration in by the Collaboration Platform Client hand held device applications shown for purposes of illustration in by the Handheld Device Client and or Web applications shown for purposes of illustration in by Web Application Client . The invoking applications call into the Calendar Server API which creates the herein disclosed out of office type of calendar entries. Calls from the invoking applications include the start and end dates and times of calendar entries out of office calendar entries for time periods out of office periods during which auto response messages are generated indications of whether specific out of office entries are to be repeated the frequency at which specific out of office entries are to be repeated the number of times specific out of office entries are to be repeated and various other values used to set up the out of office calendar entries in the User Electronic Calendar and or Electronic Mail Database .

In response to such calls from invoking applications the Calendar Server API creates the disclosed out of office calendar entries and stores them into the User Electronic Calendar and or Electronic Mail Database which may also include other types of calendar entries and or electronic mail messages and or settings associated with electronic calendar and or electronic mail user files.

Each of the disclosed out of office calendar entries stored by the Calendar Server API into the User Electronic Calendar and or Electronic Mail Database may include various specialized user defined entry characteristics to be applied to the corresponding out of office period e.g. as passed from an invoking application to the Calendar Server API . Examples of such user defined out of office entry characteristics may include without limitation one or more out of office messages to be automatically sent as responses to electronic mail messages received for a user during the corresponding out of office period a list of other users to whom out of office messages are not to be sent during the corresponding out of office period a subject line to be included with the out of office responses generated during the out of office period electronic mail addresses from which messages are to be ignored during the out of office period and or any other specific setting or configuration information required to provide out of office messages for a user during the out of office period corresponding to the out of office calendar entry.

In one embodiment out of office calendar entry objects advantageously inherit behaviors and or attributes from a more general class or classes of calendar entry objects such as support for repeated calendar entries and or visibility within the electronic calendar user interface.

The illustrative embodiment of further includes a server task responsible for monitoring calendar entries for all users shown as the Busy Time Task . The Busy Time Task has responsibility for turning on and or turning off an out of office responder task or process that generates out of office response messages for received electronic mail messages during out of office periods. The Busy Time Task periodically scans the User Electronic Calendar and or Electronic Mail Database e.g. at least once a day and is notified of all updates to the User Electronic Calendar and or Electronic Mail Database . Additionally users are provided with user interface options to manually over ride out of office entry settings in the User Electronic Calendar and or Electronic Mail Database for example to end an out of office period before its originally scheduled end time and date as may be desirable in the case where a user has returned from a meeting and or vacation prior to a previously entered end time and date.

In one embodiment the User Electronic Calendar and or Electronic Mail Database includes flags that are set to mark the beginning and end of each out of office period. If the Busy Time Task detects a flag or the like that is set to indicate the beginning of an out of office period on the current day the Busy Time Task calls the Out of Office Server API . The Out of Office Server API then starts the out of office auto responder for the out of office period. For example the Out of Office Server API may be part of an electronic mail server or the like. In such an embodiment the Out of Office Server API controls the automatic generation of response messages during out of office periods by modifying the contents of Out of Office Responder Configuration Data which controls operation of the electronic mail system auto responder task or process.

If notification of an update to or creation of an out of office entry is received for an out of office period that does not begin and or end on the current day the Busy Time Task ignores the notification since the modification to the User Electronic Calendar and or Electronic Mail Database will be detected during subsequent periodic scanning performed by the Busy Time Task . In this way the disclosed system prevents the auto responder within the electronic mail system from having to check the User Electronic Calendar and or Electronic Mail Database for each received message to determine whether an auto response message should be generated.

In one embodiment the electronic mail system automatically turns off the auto responder at the end of each out of office period without further intervention by the Busy Time Task e.g. based on settings provided in the Out of Office Responder Configuration Data by the Busy Time Task .

The Client Systems of may be any specific type of computer systems and or intelligent electronic devices such as desktop laptop or palmtop computer systems and or personal digital assistant cell phone or other electronic devices. The Client Systems each include or control display devices capable of displaying a graphical user interface e.g. including Collaboration Platform User Interface Handheld Device User Interface and Web Application User Interface to a respective local user such as a liquid crystal display LCD cathode ray tube CRT interferometric modulator display IMOD light emitting diode LED or the like.

Those skilled in the art will further recognize that the Collaboration Platform Client Handheld Device Client Web Application Client Calendar Server API Busy Time Task and or Out of Office Server API of may be embodied using software or firmware such as computer application program code operating system program code or middleware and or wholly or partly using digital hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and the like and or combinations of hardware and or software or firmware.

Those skilled in the art will further recognize that the Client Systems and Server System s of may each include one or more processors and program storage such as memory for storing program code executable on such processors as well as input output devices and or interfaces. In the example of the Client Systems and Server System s are interconnected through a data communication network e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network etc. using one or more of such input output devices or interfaces and through which may further be provided communication to a number of other client systems and or remote server systems.

While for purposes of concise illustration a limited number of client systems are shown in the disclosed system is not limited to any specific number of client systems. Moreover while certain functions are described as being performed in the Client Systems and in the Server System s the disclosed system is not limited to any specific configuration or implementation in that regard. Accordingly operations described as occurring in the Client Systems may alternatively be performed in the Server System s and vice versa. In addition while the illustrative embodiment of is implemented in a client server architecture the disclosed system is not limited to such an embodiment and may alternatively be embodied using any other specific type of system architecture that may be appropriate and or advantageous for a given implementation.

The User Interface Display further includes a calendar formatted user interface object in which each date is selectable by mouse click. The user can select a start date for the new Out of Office calendar entry by clicking on a date within the calendar such as date i.e. Aug. 2 2007 . A newly defined calendar entry is also shown in a larger view of the currently selected month of August 2007 spanning both Aug. 2 and Aug. 3 2007.

As also shown in Out of Office calendar entries may be labeled specifically to indicate a reason that the user is away from the office. For example the Out of Office calendar entry is labeled as My Vacation indicating that the user is on vacation during that particular out of office period. Other specific labels may be alternatively selected or expressly entered by the user at the time out of office entries are created such as Meeting Appointment Conference etc.

The calendar formatted portion of the User Interface Display conveniently displays out of office calendar entries for multiple time periods that the user is going to be away from the office. The calendar entries for out of office time periods can be presented to show full or partial days e.g. by shading portions of the relevant days and or displaying start and end times. While the calendar formatted user interface display objects and have a format in which each week of the month is a single row any other appropriate calendar format may be used in the alternative.

As shown in the User Interface Display includes Default Calendar Options that allow the user to define a new out of office calendar entry. A pull down menu is provided to allow the user to select a specific type of calendar entry to be added. In an alternative embodiment the pull down menu enables the user to set the desired label for the out of office entry currently being defined. A period definition area allows the user to select a starting date starting time ending date and ending time for the out of office entry. An alternate notification area allows the user to define one or more out of office notification messages to be automatically generated as responses to messages received for the user during the out of office period for the entry. A display area displays multiple out of office entries in a calendar format e.g. where each currently defined out of office entry is displayed within a calendar representation of the month in which it is defined. For example in the example of the user has a first out of office entry defined for May 27 31. Accordingly the area of the calendar representing the dates May 27 31 is shaded to provide visual indication of the calendar entry. Any specific visual indication e.g. special color bolding etc. may be used in the alternative to visually indicate the out of office calendar entries.

A second out of office entry is also displayed within a calendar representation of the month of August 2007. The out of office entry spans the days August 5 11 so those days are shaded in the calendar representation of August 2007. When the user finishes defining the out of office calendar entry currently being worked on the new entry is also added to the display area .

In the case where the user defines an out of office entry as repeating repetitions of the out of office entry are displayed in the display area for a number of months. For example if the user has defined an out of office period that is repeated on each Thursday of every week indefinitely the display area would show each Thursday as shaded for each week of each month displayed in the display area .

In an alternative embodiment an out of office characteristic or attribute can be associated with calendar entries of various types e.g. meetings vacations etc. . In such an alternative embodiment the disclosed system operates to trigger out of office response message generation for a user during any calendar entry for which the out of office attribute or characteristic is enabled or set. The user can accordingly cause the out of office characteristic or attribute to be enabled or set for any given calendar entry for example by clicking or otherwise selecting an appropriately labeled e.g. Generate Auto Response E mail Messages During Entry or the like graphical button or the like provided in an alternative embodiment of the User Interface Display . Clicking on the button would cause the out of office characteristic or attribute to be enabled or set for a currently selected calendar entry of any specific type.

As shown in the User Interface Display includes a field into which the user can enter the number of times a currently selected out of office calendar entry is to be repeated and a check box that allows the user to indicate that the currently selected out of office calendar entry is to be repeated indefinitely. A set of selectable options allows the user to select a desired repeat interval. After the user has selected the desired repeat parameter values clicking on the Done button causes the selected values to be associated with the current out of office calendar entry.

In addition the disclosed system may be embodied to allow the user to indicate that an out of office period is indefinite. In such an embodiment the disclosed system presents an Indefinite user selectable graphic object e.g. check box button etc. for example within the User Interface Display of . When selected in lieu of the user indicating a returning date and time and in the Indefinite option causes the disclosed system to create an out of office entry that has an indefinite end time and date. Accordingly the out of office period for the out of office entry does not end until it is expressly ended by the user when the user returns from being out of the office e.g. by logging in and selecting an End Out of Office Period option or the like in a graphical user graphic object generated by the disclosed system. Once an out of office period with an indefinite end time and date begins the disclosed system operates to provide automatically generated responses to electronic mail messages received for the user until the user expressly acts to end it.

At step the disclosed system simultaneously displays multiple previously defined out of office periods as calendar entries in a calendar formatted user interface display. A periodic scanning process or the like operates at step to detect out of office periods in the stored user data and to trigger the out of office auto response task or process with parameter values from corresponding out of office calendar entries. For example at step the periodic scanning process may operate at step to trigger an out of office auto response feature that is part of an electronic mail system. At step the out of office feature or process triggered at step automatically generates responses to electronic mail messages received for the user during the out of office periods defined by the out of office entries stored for the user in the user s electronic calendar data.

While the above description regarding illustrative embodiments of the disclosed system includes examples of specific user interface operations and or display objects including a date and time picker type of user interface that allows the user to select beginning and end dates and times for the disclosed out of office period electronic calendar entries and a dialog box for indicating out of office repeat parameter values the disclosed system is not limited to these specific embodiments. Accordingly the user interface objects provided herein may be modified as appropriate for various alternative embodiments using various specific configurations of graphical buttons menus dialog boxes and the like. Those skilled in the art will accordingly recognize that alternative embodiments may use any specific type or kind of user interface display object that may be appropriate to provide the specific operations described.

The disclosed system can take the form of an entirely software embodiment an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment containing both software and hardware elements. The figures include block diagram and flowchart illustrations of methods apparatus s and computer program products according to an embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that each block in such figures and combinations of these blocks can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the block or blocks.

Those skilled in the art should readily appreciate that programs defining the functions of the present invention can be delivered to a computer in many forms including but not limited to a information permanently stored on non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as ROM or CD ROM disks readable by a computer I O attachment and or b information alterably stored on writable storage media e.g. floppy disks and hard drives .

While the invention is described through the above exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that modification to and variation of the illustrated embodiments may be made without departing from the inventive concepts herein disclosed.

