---

title: Methods, systems, and computer program products for determining targeted content to provide in response to a missed communication
abstract: Targeted content is provided to at least one communication device responsive to a notification of a missed communication. Responsive to a notification of the missed communication, a selection of one of a plurality of different pricing options is received for a return communication. Targeted content is provided, in addition to content of the return communication, based on the selected pricing option.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08891745&OS=08891745&RS=08891745
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08891745
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130902
---
The present disclosure relates generally to telecommunications and more particularly to providing targeted content.

In emerging countries and areas where the use of prepaid wireless calling plans is on the rise callers have found ways to communicate using phone networks while avoiding paying for call charges. One way in which callers avoid such charges is by using a Missed Call message to communicate information. A caller may call a party let the called party s phone ring and then end the call before the called party answers. A Missed Call message will be displayed on the called party s phone showing that the caller made the call. The Missed Call message often has a meaning to both the caller and the called party.

For example a parent may instruct a teenage child to call once he or she has reached a destination. The parent may wish to avoid incurring service charges for the call e.g. if the child is traveling to an area in which extra service charges would be applied for roaming. So the parent may instruct the child to simply hang up e.g. after the second ring if the destination is reached safely. When the child reaches the destination safely calls the parents and disconnects the call after the second ring a Missed Call message will be displayed on the parent s phone. This serves as a message to the parent that the child has reached his or her destination safely.

A disconnected call does not incur any billing charges but does consume network resources. The burden on network resources is expected to grow as the use of the Missed Call messaging gains widespread use.

It should be appreciated that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form the concepts being further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of this disclosure nor is it intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

According to an exemplary embodiment a method is provided for determining targeted content. The method includes receiving a selection of one of a plurality of different pricing options for a return communication responsive to a notification of a missed communication. The missed communication is from a second communication device to a first communication device and the return communication is from the first communication device to the second communication device. Targeted content to provide to at least one of the communication devices is determined in addition to content of the return communication based on the selected pricing option.

According to another embodiment a device is provided for determining targeted content. The device includes an interface configured to receive a selection of one of a plurality of different pricing options for a return communication responsive to a notification of a missed communication. The missed communication is from a second communication device to a first communication device and the return communication is from the first communication device to the second communication device. The device also includes a processor configured to determine targeted content to provide to at least one of the communication devices in addition to content of the return communication.

According to another embodiment a computer program product includes a storage medium upon which instructions are recorded that when executed by a processor perform acts for determining targeted content. The acts include receiving a selection of one of a plurality of different pricing options for a return communication responsive to a notification of a missed communication. The missed communication is from a second communication device to a first communication device and the return communication is from the first communication device to the second communication device. Targeted content to provide to at least one of the communication devices is determined in addition to content of the return communication based on the selected pricing option.

Detailed exemplary embodiments are disclosed herein. It must be understood that the embodiments described and illustrated are merely examples that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein the word exemplary is used expansively to refer to embodiments that serve as examples or illustrations. The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting.

According to an exemplary embodiment some of the cost of network utilization for a missed communication may be recouped by providing targeted content such as paid advertisements as part of a return communication. According to one aspect responsive to a notification of a missed call from a caller a called party may make free calls or collect calls. In exchange for listening and or viewing targeted content the called party and or caller may be connected for a predetermined time period which may be limited. After the predetermined time period the caller callee may decide to continue the call for a fee or in exchange for listening viewing additional targeted content or end the call.

For the purposes of this disclosure the terms call and communication include not only voice calls but also video calls and or audio video calls made via wireless and or wireline networks. Additionally the terms targeted content advertisement and ad include not only retail advertisements but also public service announcements etc.

The communication devices may include e.g. wireless telephones such as devices A and B a wireline telephone C e.g. Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP or analog and or a laptop desktop or tablet computer D. The communication devices A B C and D may be implemented as communication devices such as the device described in detail below with reference to . Although four communication devices are shown in for illustrative purposes it should be appreciated that any number of communication devices may communicate and or be provided with targeted content in the manner set forth in this disclosure.

The network may include one or more service provider networks e.g. carrier networks and or the Internet. The network may be implemented as one or more wireless networks and or wireline networks. The network may include e.g. Global System for Mobile communications GSM networks Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS networks WiFi network WiMax networks POTS networks VoIP networks etc. It should be understood however that the embodiments may be implemented in other communication networks that use any existing or yet to be developed telecommunications technology. Some examples of other suitable telecommunication technologies include but are not limited to networks utilizing Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Long Term Evolution LTE and various other 2 G 2.5 G 3 G 4 G and grater generation technologies. Examples of suitable data bearers include but are not limited to General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSDPA protocol family such as High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA and various other current and future data bearers.

According to an exemplary embodiment a business organization individual government entity or advertiser may upload targeted content e.g. audio and or video content via the content provider . The content provider may include a server hosting a website that may be accessed by a user for uploading the targeted content. The uploaded targeted content is selected by the MVVCS to provide to users of the communication devices A B C and or D in addition to content of a return communication responsive to a missed communication. Alternatively or in addition targeted content may be uploaded directly to the MVVCS . The targeted content may be selected based on a pricing option selected by a caller and or callee s for a return communication user profile of the caller and or the callee s type content of the missed call and or return call date time of the missed call and or the return call and or geographic location s of the caller and or the callee s . The geographic location may be determined in any of a variety of ways including but not limited to a global satellite system GPS not shown for simplicity of illustration . The user profile may include e.g. age gender social interests shopping preferences residential area etc.

According to an exemplary embodiment targeted content is provided only to users who have opted in to a missed call targeted content service. In one embodiment users may opt in and opt out of the targeted content service or drop calls at any time. For example users may opt in opt out of the missed call targeted content service upon registering with a service provider or via customer support e.g. phone or web based . A user may also opt in opt out via e.g. a phone settings menus missed call application settings etc. on the user s communication device or by sending opt in opt out messages via e.g. SMS shortcode.

According to an exemplary embodiment a user of a communication device e.g. mobile communication device A or B receives a call on his her communication device and the call ends after one or a few rings and before the call is picked up or the call is handled by voicemail. The call recipient may be notified of the missed call e.g. by hearing the ring and or via a display of a user interface. For example the call may be listed as a missed call in a recent call log user interface on the communication device. An example of such an interface is shown in . The missed call may be highlighted e.g. in red. A similar interface may be presented to a user of a laptop D. For a legacy communication device e.g. the wireline phone C the missed call list may be maintained by the service provider carrier or other entity and may be accessed by the user calling a telephone number e.g. a 1 800 MVVCS number at a voice prompt. Alternatively the communication devices C and D may use modem interfaces to call a 1 800 MVVCS number via the Internet. This communication may be provided using Representational State Transfer REST client server architecture which governs the behavior and communication of servers gateways proxies and clients via the Internet.

Options may be provided to the users of the communication devices A B C and D for returning a missed call. In one embodiment there are two primary options for returning the missed call i.e. as a free return call or as a collect call. When a user selects a call back free CBF option a tariff free voice video call is provided by the network . When a user selects a call back collect CBC option a tariff for the call is billed to the callee.

The MVVCS receives selections of the CBF or CBC option from a caller wishing to initiate a return call. The MVVCS verifies the identity and obtains the profile of the caller initiating the return call accepts the request by the caller to initiate the return call determines what targeted content to provide when to provide the targeted content and what party to provide the targeted content to in addition to the content for the return communication.

According to an exemplary embodiment the MVVCS provides targeted content before and or during a return communication as described in detail below. For example for an audio call targeted audio advertisements are provided to the caller before or while the return communication to the callee is initiated. For a video call targeted audio video ads may be sent to the caller before or while the callee s destination phone numbers are verified and dialed. In one embodiment the caller s voice and or image is muted while the targeted ad is presented.

For a free call each callee who has opted into the targeted content service may be provided with an audio and or video indication of the return call e.g. a text indication before a CallerID indicating that the call is a free return call and or a special ringtone and targeted content may be sent to the callee. For a collect call for each callee who has opted into the service an audio and or video indication of the collect call to be billed to the callee is given e.g. via a text indication before a CallerID indicating that the call is a collect return call and or a special ringtone and the callee s may be muted for the duration of the targeted content. At the end of the targeted content duration the caller and callee s may be unmuted and the return communication is established for a predetermined amount of time. At the end of the predetermined amount of time the call may be dropped or an option may be provided to the caller and or callee s to continue the call with additional targeted advertising pay for call or drop the call. Additional examples for targeted content delivery are provided below.

The MVVCS may be implemented as one or more devices such as the device described in further detail below with reference to . Although not illustrated the content provider may include a server that is implemented in a manner similar to that described below with reference to . The MVVCS may be a third party component and or may perform similar functions as and include a server that is internal to a network operator system e.g. the server shown in . The MVVCS may also include additional servers external to a network operator system for load balancing.

The network operator system also includes a gateway e.g. an OSA Parlay gateway with which the MVVCS internal server communicates through a firewall with the client to manage the overall targeted content delivery and call sequence. According to an exemplary embodiment the communication may be handled by a REST API. The client gateway and MVVCS internal server may operate according to e.g. the ParlayX 3.0 Specification the details of which may be found e.g. at http docbox.etsi.org TISPAN OPEN OSA ParlayX30.html.

According to an exemplary embodiment once a user is notified of a missed communication and selects an option e.g. the CBC or CBF option for a return communication a secure REST session may be invoked with one or more MVVCS external servers not shown in the interest of simplicity of illustration for load balancing. The external server verifies the REST call and receives the destination phone numbers. Alternatively the MVVCS internal server may perform call verification and receive the destinations phone numbers for a REST session.

The MVVCS internal server manages billing for free calls and MVVCS collect calls communicates with external operators and or servers as appropriate and the client as needed obtains current information regarding the status and the locations of the communication devices A B C and D and updates and maintains user profiles. The user profiles are used to determine targeted content to provide to the users. The MVVCS internal server monitors the call content of a communication e.g. whether the call is voice and or video keywords in the call etc. and updates the user profile based on call content such that targeted content may also be provided based on call content.

The content provider may include a web application component that allows advertisers and other targeted content providers to register with the targeted content service make payments and upload advertisement content. Such an application may also be included in the MVVCS .

The network operator system also includes a payment accounting system for handling billing and payment in conjunction with the MVVCS internal server and a core voice data location based server system for handling the core exchange of information.

The MVVCS internal server may be implemented with a device such as that described below with reference to . For network load balancing additional servers may be used e.g. external MVVCS servers. Such servers may also be implemented as described below with reference to .

It should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspect of some embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented. While the description includes a general context of computer executable instructions the present disclosure can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software. The term application or variants thereof s used expansively herein to include routines program modules program components data structures algorithms and the like. Applications can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers handheld computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Referring to a device may be a multimode handset and can include a variety of computer readable media including volatile media non volatile media removable media and non removable media. The term computer readable media and variants thereof as used in the specification and claims can include storage media. Storage media can include volatile and or non volatile removable and or non removable media such as for example RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store information that can be accessed by the device .

The device may include a display for displaying multimedia such as for example text images video and telephone functions such as caller id data setup functions menus music metadata messages wallpaper graphics Internet content device status preference settings and the like.

According to exemplary embodiment the display may display targeted content delivered to the device by the MVVCS . The display may be an interactive touch screen or a screen that may be manipulated with a cursor e.g. for receiving notification of missed calls and selecting missed calls to return from a missed call list or a contact lists and selecting e.g. CBC or CBF options for initiating the return communication.

The device may include a processor for controlling and or processing data. A memory can interface with the processor for the storage of data and or applications .

The applications may include for example SMS messaging software EMS message software MMS messaging software USSD software a WAP browser and the like.

The applications may also include a user interface UI application . The UI application can interact with a client e.g. an operating system to facilitate user interaction with device functionality and data. For example the UI application may be used for entering message content viewing received messages answering initiating calls entering deleting data password entry and settings configuring settings address book manipulation and the like. Such user interaction may be facilitated via e.g. a keypad or a touchscreen included in the device or communicating with the device via the I O interface . Also according to exemplary embodiments the UI application can be used for selecting a missed call to return and a CBF and or CBC option by a user of the device . Alternatively or in addition such selections may be made via e.g. an interactive voice response interface and or a separate user interface and or application.

The applications may include other applications such as for example add ons plug ins email applications music application video applications camera applications location based service LBS applications power conservation applications game applications productivity application entertainment applications combinations thereof and the like as well as subsystem and or components.

The applications can be stored in the memory and or in firmware components and can be executed by the processor . The firmware can also store code for execution during initialization of the device .

A communications component may interface with the processor to facilitate wired wireless communication with external systems including for example cellular networks location systems VoIP networks local area networks LAN s wide area networks WAN s metropolitan area networks MAN s personal area networks PAN s and other networks which may be implemented using WIFI WIMAX combinations and improvements thereof and the like. The communications component can also include a multimode communication subsystem for providing cellular communications via different cellular technologies. For example a first cellular transceiver can operate in one mode for example GSM and an Nth transceiver can operate in a different mode for example UMTS. While only two transceivers are illustrated it should be appreciated that a plurality of transceivers may be included. The communications component may also include a transceiver for other communication technologies such as for example WIFI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared IRDA NFC RF and the like. The communications components may also facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks Internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as for example the network the Internet a corporate network a home broadband network a WIFI hotspot and the like via an ISP DSL provider or broadband provider.

An input output I O interface may be provided for input output of data and or signals. The I O interface may be a hardwire connection such as for example a USB mini USB audio jack PS2 IEEE 1394 serial parallel Ethernet RJ48 RJ11 and the like and can accept other I O devices such as for example keyboards keypads mice interface tethers stylus pens printers thumb drives touch screens multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices monitors displays and liquid crystal displays LCDs combination thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface can be used for communication between the device and a network or local device instead of or in addition to the communications component .

Audio capabilities may be provided by an audio I O component that may include a speaker for the output of audio signals e.g. audible targeted content and or caller ids and a microphone to collect audio signals. The device can include a slot interface for accommodating a subscriber identity system such as for example a subscriber identity module SIM or universal SIM USIM . The subscriber identity system instead can be manufactured into the device thereby obviating the need for a slot interface . In some embodiments the subscriber identity system can store certain features user characteristics rules policies models contact information and the like. The subscriber identity system can be programmed by a manufacturer a retailer a user a computer a network operator and the like.

The device can further include an image capture and processing system image system . Photos and or videos can be obtained via an associated image capture subsystem of the image system for example a camera. The device may also include a video system for capturing processing recording modifying and or transmitting video content.

A location component may be included to send and or receive signals such as for example GPS data A GPS data WIF WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like. The location component can interface with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers for example WIFI hotspots radio transmitters combinations thereof and the like. The device may obtain generate and or receive data to identify its location or can transmit data used by other devices to determine the device location. The location of the device can be provided to the MVVCS and used to determine targeted content to provide to the device in addition to content of a return communication.

The device may also include a power source such as batteries and or other power subsystems AC or DC . The power source can interface with an exemplary power system or charging equipment via a power I O component .

According to an exemplary embodiment the CBF and CBC options may be associated with all missed calls or only calls from parties who have opted in for the targeted content service. In the contacts list the CBF and CBC options may be associated with the callers of the missed calls in a history. The CBC and CBF options disappear as history is cleared automatically or manually.

According to exemplary embodiments there are various scenarios for providing targeted content including e.g. audio and or video advertisements to the caller and or callee s after notification of a missed call. These scenarios include providing targeted content for voice calls video calls and voice video calls.

First consider a voice call. The users of a voice call may be presented with CallerID text and or a special ringtone indicating the return call.

In one scenario a caller is presented with an audio ad but the callee s are not. In this scenario the caller first selects the CBC or CBF option The caller can be muted while being presented with a targeted audio advertisement while being muted. Then the caller is unmuted if previously muted and the callee s are dialed and the caller and callee s are connected into a voice call for a predetermined amount of time. In this scenario there is no targeted advertisement presented to the callee s .

In a similar scenario a callee is presented with an audio ad but the caller is not. In this scenario the caller selects the CBC or CBF option and the callee s are dialed. The callee s can be muted while being presented with a targeted audio advertisement. Once the audio advertisement is complete the callee s are unmuted if previously muted and the voice call proceeds or continues for a predetermined amount of time.

In another scenario the caller and the callee s are presented with the same audio ad. In this scenario the caller selects the CBC or CBF option and the callee s are dialed. The caller and callee s could both be muted while being presented with a targeted audio advertisement. Once the audio advertisement is complete the caller and callee s are unmuted if previously muted and the voice call proceeds or continues for a predetermined amount of time.

In yet another scenario the caller and callee s are presented with individually targeted ads. In this scenario the caller first selects the CBC or CBF option. The callee s are dialed while both caller and callee s are muted. The caller and callee s listen to the individually targeted content and are then unmuted into a voice call for a predetermined amount of time.

In another scenario the caller and or callee s in a voice are presented with all or part of an audio ad in the background of a voice call. In this scenario the caller first selects the CBC or CBF option and the callee s are dialed. The caller and or callee s may be muted while being presented with part of the targeted audio advertisement. The caller and callee s may be unmuted while the audio advertisement continues to play. As an alternative the audio advertisement may be provided in the background without muting the caller and or callee s . In either case the voice call may continue with the audio advertisement in the background for a predetermined amount of time.

In addition to the audio advertisements described above text and or video advertisements may be presented to the caller and or callee during an audio call.

Now consider a video call. The users of a video call may be presented with a talking head or image as a video Caller ID along with text and or a special ringtone indicating the return call.

In one scenario the caller is presented with a video audio ad but the callee s are not. In this scenario the caller selects the CBC or CBF option. The caller is presented with a targeted audio video advertisement while no call content is transmitted. Then the callee s are dialed and conferenced into voice video call for a predetermined amount of time. In this scenario there is no targeted advertisement for the callee s .

In a similar scenario the callee is presented with an ad but the caller is not. In this scenario the caller selects the CBC of CBF option and the call is initiated. The callee s are presented with the ad but there is no ad for the caller.

In another scenario the caller and callee s are presented with the same video audio ad. The caller selects CBC or CBF option and the callee s are dialed. The caller and callee s are presented with the same video audio advertisement with no video audio call content transmitted. After the advertisement is complete the caller and callee s are connected into voice video call for a predetermined amount of time.

In another scenario the caller and callee s are presented with individually targeted video audio ads. In this scenario the caller selects the CBC or CBF option and the callee s are dialed. The caller and callee s are presented with individually targeted video audio advertisements with no video audio call content transmitted. After the advertisements are complete the caller and callee s are connected into a voice video call for predetermined amount of time.

In yet another scenario the caller and callee s are presented with a video audio ad for part of a video audio call. In this scenario the caller selects the CBC or CBF option and the callee s are dialed. The caller and callee s are presented with the same video audio advertisement with no video audio call content transmitted. While the video audio advertisement continues to play in background the caller and callee s are connected into a voice video call. Alternatively the video audio advertisement may be presented in the background e.g. in a picture in picture format for the entire duration of the advertisement. Once the advertisement is complete the call continues for a predetermined amount of time.

For the audio and video call scenarios described above there may be a caller id presented to the caller and or callee s . For example for an audio call there may be an audible caller id announcement. For a video call there may be a video caller id display e.g. a moving video or a still video. Also there may be a picture video overlay of caller and callee s video caller ids at the time of receiving the call or in video advertisements.

For the audio and video call scenarios described at the end of the predetermined time the call is suspended e.g. with an audible beep and the caller and or callee s is presented with a missed call application popup and or audio prompt to select from to continue the call. The caller and or callee may continue the video call by paying a fee continue the video call in exchange for listening to one or more audio video advertisements by caller and or callee s or drop the call.

In each of the scenarios described above content may be targeted based on various factors such as a location of a caller a location of a callee the type of call audio and or video content of the call the time of the missed call characteristics of the caller and or callee e.g. age gender social interests shopping preferences residential area etc. and the time of the return call. For example for a video call the video content of the call presented to the caller and or callee s may be augmented with a picture overlay of advertisements based on e.g. a location of the caller and or a location of the callee s . In another example video content of the call may be augmented with a picture overlay of advertisements based on location s of the caller callee time of day and activities of caller and or callee s . For example at lunchtime or dinner time restaurant deals and evening movie deals in the area may be presented. As another example call content may be augmented with a picture overlay of the store advertisements based on the location of callers and callee s . For example when the caller is in NYC Times Square the video presented to the caller may be augmented with ads from stores around Times Square. In another scenario augmented reality video may be presented with controls to stop zoom and continue video by callers and callee s .

The processor communicates with a memory via e.g. an address data bus not shown . The processor can be any commercially available or customer processor. The memory is representative of the overall hierarchy of memory devices containing the software and data used to implement the functionality of the device . The memory can include but is not limited to the following types of devices processor registers processor cache RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory SRAMD DRAM other volatile memory forms and non volatile semi permanent or permanent memory types for example tape based media optical media solid state media hard disks combinations thereof and the like.

As shown in the memory may include several categories of software and data used in the device including applications a database an operating system OS and the input output device drivers . As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the OS may be any operating system for use with a data processing system. The I O device drivers may include various routines accessed through the OS by the applications to communicate with devices and certain memory components. The applications can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware not shown as executable instructions and can be executed by the processor . The applications include various programs that when executed by the processor implement the various features of the device including determining targeted content to provide for a return communication. The applications may be applied to data stored in the database e.g. user profile data along with data e.g. received via the I O data ports e.g. location based data. The database represents the static and dynamic data used by the applications the OS the I O device drivers and other software programs that may reside in the memory.

While the memory is illustrated as residing proximate the processor it should be understood that at least a portion of the memory can be a remotely accessed storage system for example a server on a communication network a remote hard disk drive a removable storage medium combinations thereof and the like. Thus any of the data applications and or software described above can be stored within the memory and or accessed via network connections to other data processing systems not shown that may include a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN for example.

It should be understood that and the description above are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of some embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented. While the description refers to computer readable instructions embodiments of the present disclosure also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software in addition to or instead of computer readable instructions. The term application or variants thereof is used expansively herein to include routines program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Applications can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Referring to at step a notification of a missed communication is provided to a communication device e.g. communication device by the MVVCS . The notification may be in the form of a missed call notification a missed call list a highlighted telephone number in a contacts list etc. Pricing options for a return communication are provided at step . The pricing options may include a free return call a collect return call or a pay return call. The pricing options may be set in advance e.g. as buttons on the phone and or may be provided on the fly by the MVVCS e.g. by the user calling a predetermined telephone number. A selection of a pricing option is received from the device initiating the return communication at step e.g. by the MVVCS . At step targeted content to provide to the caller and or callee s is determined by the MVVCS based on the selected pricing option among other factors described above. If the call is a pay call the MVVCS may determine not to provide targeted content or may provide a discount to the caller for a limited amount of targeted content. At step targeted content is provided by the MVVCS to the caller and or callee s . At step the return communication is established for a predetermined time. It should be appreciated that the targeted content may be provided after the call is established or before the call is established.

At step a determination is made as to whether the predetermined time allotted for the return call has expired. If not the call continues. If the allotted time has expired options are provided for continuing the return communication at step . The options may include e.g. continuing the call with additional targeted advertisements charging the caller and or callee for continuing the call or dropping the call. In one embodiment the option is presented to the caller and the choice made by the caller. In one embodiment the option is presented to the caller and the choice made by the callee. In one embodiment the option is presented to both the caller and calle and the choice may be made by either the caller or the callee. If either selects to continue the call with additional targeted advertisements targeted advertisements similar to those already provided may be sent and or the process may return to step .

The law does not require and it is economically prohibitive to illustrate and teach every possible embodiment of the present claims. Hence the above described embodiments are merely exemplary illustrations of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Variations modifications and combinations may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the claims. All such variations modifications and combinations are included herein by the scope of this disclosure and the following claims.

