---

title: Remote authentication method with single sign on credentials
abstract: Systems and methods for remote authentication using Single Sign-On (SSO) credentials are disclosed. An implementation includes transmitting a request for an identification code from an application to a wireless service provider, the request provided through an encrypted transport protocol, receiving the identification code as a messaging service message from the wireless service provider, securely routing the received identification code to the requesting application, upon receipt of the identification code at the application, retrieving an authentication token for the application through the encrypted transport protocol and providing the authentication token to an application content server to allow content transfer between the application content server and the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258294&OS=09258294&RS=09258294
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09258294
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131231
---
Single Sign On SSO is a session user authentication process that permits a user to enter one username and password in order to access multiple applications. The process authenticates the user for all applications the user has been given rights to and eliminates further prompts when the user switches applications during an authenticated session. SSO can reduce user fatigue resulting from providing different username and password combinations and also reduce time spent re entering passwords for the same user identity. With SSO an authentication service saves an authentication token to be shared among applications installed on a mobile device. The authentication token allows the applications to authenticate the user without requiring the user to re enter a username and password combination for each application.

Several solutions rely on the operating system or user authorization to share the SSO authentication token between applications. However these solutions do not protect against theft of a token in transport between servers or applications. As the foregoing illustrates a new approach for SSO may be desirable.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The various implementations allow secure receipt of a SSO authentication token from a server and secure sharing of the SSO authentication token between applications. In an implementation a process for secure receipt and sharing of a SSO authentication token between applications can be initiated when a request for an identification code is provided from an application on a mobile device to a subscriber profile controller of a wireless service provider. The request may be provided by the application through an encrypted transport protocol by utilizing a SSO function library associated with the application. The identification code may be a numeric or alpha numeric string of characters a hash value or any other identifier.

Responsive to the request for the identification code provided by the application the identification code is received from the subscriber profile controller as a messaging service message e.g. Short Messaging Service SMS message and provided to the requesting application. Upon receipt of the identification code at the application the application requests a SSO authentication token for the application from the subscriber profile controller. The application may use the received identification and device information including but not limited to a device operating system version a mobile directory number MDN and Subscriber Identification Module SIM credential to generate a hash. The hash may be provided by the application to the subscriber profile controller in order to receive a SSO authentication token from the subscriber profile controller. The subscriber profile controller provides the SSO authentication token to the application using the encrypted transport protocol. Upon receipt of the SSO authentication token at the application the received application SSO authentication token e.g. SSO token can be provided by the application to an application content server to authenticate the application with the application content server. If the application content server authenticates the SSO authentication token the application content server can allow content transfer between the application content server and the application.

Thus an application may not be able to request an authentication token until it has received the identification code authorizing the application to proceed with the request for the authentication token. This allows only authorized applications i.e. applications that possess an identification code from the subscriber profile controller to obtain a SSO authentication token. Other un authorized applications including processes that may have malicious intent to improperly retrieve a user s SSO authentication token are not able to retrieve the SSO authentication token from the subscriber profile controller. This not only improves security of the SSO authentication token but also security of a user s account with an application.

Furthermore a SSO authentication token can be received securely by a requesting application via an encrypted transport protocol and the use of an identification code directed to the requesting application. In addition once a SSO authentication token has been received the SSO authentication token may be securely routed and shared with other applications by the application that requested the SSO authentication token. The application may have exclusive control over receipt of messaging service messages from the wireless service provider and may include parsing and routing rules to securely route or share the received SSO authentication token to any other application that may need the retrieved SSO authentication token. In this way the sharing of an authentication token allows other applications to authenticate a user without requiring the user to re enter a username and password combination for each application. Such sharing of the authentication token by the application is particularly beneficial for software platforms that may not allow direct communications between applications. These software platforms can include but are not limited to Windows Runtime Environments e.g. X86 AMD64 and ARM desktops laptops tablets etc. . Particularly the disclosed implementations can enable sharing of the authentication token on such platforms based on parsing and routing rules defined for operating systems of the software platforms. These routing rules defined by a token routing application may be read by an operating system of the user s device to route a received authentication token to another application on the user s device. An example routing rule may indicate that when a messaging service message with an identification code including a particular prefix is detected at a modem of the user s device the messaging service message is to be routed to a specific application. For example a routing rule may indicate that when a SMS message is prefixed with VZW MVM the contents of the message that may include an authentication token are to be routed to the My Verizon Mobile MVM application on the user s mobile device. Furthermore the identification code is transmitted by the subscriber profile controller as a messaging service message to a cellular modem of the mobile device upon checking that the mobile device is subscribed with the wireless service provider to receive such an authentication message. For example a subscriber profile controller may review a subscriber database prior to providing the identification code to the mobile device. This ensures that the identification code reaches a device and application that is subscribed to receive remote SSO authentication services and the identification code.

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below. illustrates a system offering a variety of mobile communication services including communications for a remote authentication process with SSO credentials by mobile stations. The example shows simply two mobile stations MSs and as well as a mobile communication network . The stations and are examples of mobile stations that may use a remote authentication process with SSO credentials. However the network will provide similar communications for many other similar users as well as for mobile devices users that do not participate in the remote authentication process. The network provides mobile wireless communications services to those stations as well as to other mobile stations not shown for example via a number of base stations BSs . The present techniques may be implemented in any of a variety of available mobile networks and or on any type of mobile station compatible with such a network and the drawing shows only a very simplified example of a few relevant elements of the network for purposes of discussion here.

The wireless mobile communication network might be implemented as a network conforming to the code division multiple access CDMA IS 95 standard the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 wireless IP network standard or the Evolution Data Optimized EVDO standard the Global System for Mobile GSM communication standard a time division multiple access TDMA standard Long Term Evolution LTE or other standards used for public mobile wireless communications. The mobile stations may are capable of voice telephone communications through the network and for a remote authentication process with SSO credentials the exemplary devices and are capable of data communications through the particular type of network and the users thereof typically will have subscribed to data service through the network .

The network allows users of the mobile stations such as and and other mobile stations not shown to initiate and receive telephone calls to each other as well as through the public switched telephone network or PSTN and telephone stations connected to the PSTN . The network typically offers a variety of data services via the Internet such as downloads web browsing email etc. By way of example the drawing shows a laptop PC type user terminal as well as a server connected to the Internet and the data services for the mobile stations via the Internet may be with devices like those shown at and as well as with a variety of other types of devices or systems capable of data communications through various interconnected networks. The mobile stations and including applications utilizing a remote authentication process with SSO credentials also can receive and execute applications written in various programming languages as discussed more later.

Mobile stations can take the form of portable handsets smart phones or personal digital assistants although they may be implemented in other form factors. Program applications including an application e.g. Mobile Broadband Account Experience MBAE application to assist in remote authentication process with SSO credentials can be configured to execute on many different types of mobile stations . For example a mobile station application can be written to execute on a binary runtime environment for mobile BREW based mobile station a Windows Mobile based mobile station Android I Phone Java Mobile or RIM based mobile station such as a BlackBerry or the like. Some of these types of devices can employ a multi tasking operating system.

The mobile communication network can be implemented by a number of interconnected networks. Hence the overall network may include a number of radio access networks RANs as well as regional ground networks interconnecting a number of RANs and a wide area network WAN interconnecting the regional ground networks to core network elements. A regional portion of the network such as that serves mobile stations can include one or more RANs and a regional circuit and or packet switched network and associated signaling network facilities.

Physical elements of a RAN operated by one of the mobile service providers or carriers include a number of base stations represented in the example by the base stations BSs . Although not separately shown such a base station can include a base transceiver system BTS which can communicate via an antennae system at the site of base station and over the airlink with one or more of the mobile stations when the mobile stations are within range. Each base station can include a BTS coupled to several antennas mounted on a radio tower within a coverage area often referred to as a cell. The BTS is the part of the radio network that sends and receives RF signals to from the mobile stations that are served by the base station .

The radio access networks can also include a traffic network represented generally by the cloud at which carries the user communications and data for the mobile stations between the base stations and other elements with or through which the mobile stations communicate. The network can also include other elements that support functionality other than device to device media transfer services such as messaging service messages and voice communications. Specific elements of the network for carrying the voice and data traffic and for controlling various aspects of the calls or sessions through the network are omitted here form simplicity. It will be understood that the various network elements can communicate with each other and other aspects of the mobile communications network and other networks e.g. the PSTN and the Internet either directly or indirectly.

The carrier will also operate a number of systems that provide ancillary functions in support of the communications services and or application services provided through the network and those elements communicate with other nodes or elements of the network via one or more private IP type packet data networks sometimes referred to as an Intranet i.e. a private networks. Generally such systems are part of or connected for communication via the private network . A person skilled in the art however would recognize that systems outside of the private network could serve the same functions as well. Examples of such systems in this case operated by the network service provider as part of the overall network which communicate through the intranet type network include one or more application servers and a related subscriber profile controller for the application service of server .

A mobile station communicates over the air with a base station and through the traffic network for various voice and data communications e.g. through the Internet with an application content server and or with application servers . If the mobile service carrier offers remote authentication with SSO credentials the service may be provided using carrier operated subscriber profile controller for communication via the networks and . Alternatively the remote authentication service may be provided by a separate entity alone or through agreements with the carrier in which case the service may be hosted on an application server such as server connected for communication via the networks and . Servers such as and may provide any of a variety of common application or service functions in support of or in addition to an application program running on the mobile station . However for purposes of further discussion we will focus on functions thereof in support of remote authentication with SSO credentials in accordance with one or more implementations. For a given service including remote authentication with SSO credentials an application program within the mobile station may be considered as a client and the programming at or may be considered as the server application for the particular service.

To insure that the application service offered by server or application content server is available to only authorized devices users the provider of the application service also deploys a subscriber profile controller . The subscriber profile controller e.g. SPC can provide authentication and authorization for stations seeking access to certain services such as paid value added services or applications on the mobile communication network . The subscriber profile controller can be used to verify whether a particular subscriber e.g. a particular station should be provided access to certain services or applications for example by verifying whether the subscriber has a subscription for a service or application. The subscriber profile controller could be a separate physical server as shown or subscriber profile controller could be implemented as another program module running on the same hardware platform as the server application . A similar authentication function may be provided for remote SSO authentication service s offered via the server either by the server by a program on the server or via a separate subscriber profile controller not shown connected to the Internet .

Referring also to in one implementation a process for secure receipt and sharing of a SSO authentication token between applications can be initiated when a request for an identification code is provided from an application on mobile station to subscriber profile controller . In some implementations the identification code may be specific to an application requesting the identification code. In other implementations the identification code may be specific to another application sharing the identification code with the requesting application. In yet other implementations the identification code may be specific to a device or a user. The request may be provided by the application over mobile traffic network through an encrypted transport protocol by utilizing a SSO function library associated with the application. The encrypted transport protocol may be Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS . The request may be provided upon a user request to access or execute the application . Responsive to the request for the identification code provided by the application the identification code is received as a messaging service message e.g. Short Messaging Service SMS message and or Multimedia Messaging Service MMS from the subscriber profile controller and provided to the requesting application on mobile station . The messaging service message including the identification code may be provided to a cellular modem of mobile station and routed to the application . In some implementations the identification code may be directed to a specific application on the mobile device that includes application or any other application that may be installed on the mobile device. As an example a SMS message including the identification code may be prefixed with an identifier e.g. VZW MVM to indicate a particular application e.g. My Verizon Mobile MVM as the recipient of the SMS.

Upon receipt of the identification code at the application the application requests a SSO authentication token for the application from subscriber profile controller . The application may use the received identification code and device information of the mobile station including but not limited to a device operating system version a mobile directory number MDN and Subscriber Identity Module SIM credential of the mobile station to generate a hash value. The hash value may be provided by the application to the subscriber profile controller in the request for the authentication token to the subscriber profile controller . In some aspects the subscriber profile controller may verify the hash value against subscriber database prior to providing an authentication token to the application .

Thus the application may not be able to request an authentication token until it has received the identification code authorizing the application to proceed with the request for the authentication token. This allows only authorized applications i.e. applications that possess an identification code from subscriber profile controller to obtain a SSO authentication token. Other un authorized applications including processes that may have malicious intent to improperly retrieve a user s SSO authentication token are not able to retrieve the SSO authentication token from subscriber profile controller . This not only improves security of the SSO authentication token but also security of a user s account with an application.

The subscriber profile controller provides the SSO authentication token to the application using the encrypted transport protocol. Upon receipt of the SSO authentication token at the application the received SSO authentication token e.g. SSO token can be provided by the application to an application content server to authenticate the application with the application content server . If the application content server authenticates the SSO authentication token the application content server can allow content transfer between the application content server and the application . As an example the application content server may authenticate the SSO authentication token by comparing the SSO authentication token with an existing database of authorized SSO authentication tokens at application content server . Upon authentication the content that may be transferred between the application and application content server may include any data including but not limited to textual data audio data video data control data validation and authentication data etc.

In this way a SSO authentication token can be received securely by the requesting application via an encrypted transport protocol and the use of an identification code directed to the requesting application . In addition once an application SSO authentication token has been retrieved the SSO authentication token may be securely routed and shared with other applications by application on mobile station . The application may have exclusive control over receipt of messaging service messages from subscriber profile controller and may include parsing and routing rules to securely route or share the received SSO authentication token to any other application on mobile station that may need the retrieved SSO authentication token. These routing rules defined by application may be read by an operating system of mobile station to further route the authentication to another application on the mobile station . An example routing rule may indicate that when a SMS message with an identification code including a particular prefix is detected the SMS message is to be routed to a specific application. For example a routing rule may indicate that when a SMS message is prefixed with VZW MVM the contents of the message are to be routed to the My Verizon Mobile MVM application on mobile station . In this way in some implementations the application may act as a token routing application that configures routing of an authentication token to a requesting application based on routing rules defined by the application . In other implementations that are discussed below a separate token routing application may route an authentication token to application and other applications on mobile station . Such sharing of the authentication token by the application is particularly beneficial for software platforms that may not allow direct communications between applications. These software platforms can include but are not limited to Windows Runtime Environments e.g. X86 AMD64 and ARM desktops laptops tablets etc. . Particularly and as discussed above the disclosed implementations can enable sharing of the authentication token on such platforms based on parsing and routing rules defined for operating systems of the software platforms. These routing rules defined by a token routing application may be read by an operating system of a user s device to route an authentication token to an application on the user s device.

Application may prevent access to the SSO authentication token while the token is being provided to or shared with another application by encrypting the authentication token during storage or transit. Because the authentication token is encrypted other applications applications may not be able to access the authentication token during storage or transit. Instead the application would share the authentication tokens with the other applications based on requests from the other applications to application . In other words other applications may not intercept or read the authentication token without making a request for the authentication token to application . Furthermore the subscriber profile controller checks that mobile station is indeed subscribed to receive a SSO authentication token. In some aspects and as discussed above the subscriber profile controller may verify a hash value provided by application against a subscriber database prior to providing an authentication token to the application . This ensures that the identification code is transmitted by the subscriber profile controller as a messaging service message to a cellular modem of the mobile station authorized to receive the SSO authentication token.

It is to be appreciated that mobile station is not limited to applications and can include any number of applications.

Applications may include SSO function libraries and respectively. In some implementations the SSO function libraries and may be implemented as dynamic link libraries DLLs e.g. Windows DLLs . A DLL can be a library including shared data code and any other resources required by an application. A DLL may be loaded by an operating system of mobile station through an entry point in memory of mobile station . Once loaded into memory the DLL can execute operations on behalf of the application . As an example the application may perform operations related to remote authentication using SSO credentials by utilizing SSO function library . Exemplary flows of operation for different implementations shall now be described with respect .

Referring to in an implementation a process for secure receipt and sharing of a SSO authentication token between applications can be initiated when a request for an identification code is provided from the application on mobile station to the subscriber profile controller step . The request may be provided by application using the SSO function library through an encrypted transport protocol. Such a request may be triggered for example when a user selects a button or any other user interface element to login into an application or when an application needs to access a user s data in another application using the user s SSO credentials.

Responsive to the request for the identification code provided by the application the identification code is received as a messaging service message e.g. Short Messaging Service SMS message from the subscriber profile controller step and provided to the requesting application on mobile station step . As discussed above the messaging service message may be provided via a cellular modem of mobile station . As an example a SMS message including the identification code may be prefixed with an identifier e.g. VZW MVM to indicate a particular application e.g. My Verizon Mobile MVM as the recipient of the SMS. This ensures that the SMS message is routed to an application authorized to receive the message.

Upon receipt of the identification code at the application step the application requests a SSO authentication token for the application from subscriber profile controller step . As an example the application may use the received identification code and device information of the mobile station including but not limited to a device operating system version a mobile directory number MDN and Subscriber Identity Module SIM credential of the mobile station to generate a hash value. The hash value may be generated by SSO function library . The hash value may be provided by the application to the subscriber profile controller in the request for the authentication token. In some aspects the subscriber profile controller may verify the hash value against a subscriber database prior to providing an authentication token to the application .

The subscriber profile controller provides the SSO authentication token to the application using the encrypted transport protocol step .

Upon receipt of the SSO authentication token at the application the received SSO authentication token e.g. SSO token can be provided by the application to an application content server to authenticate the application with the application content server step . Additionally the application content server may also validate the token with the subscriber profile controller . For example the subscriber profile controller may receive the authentication token from application content server step check the authentication token against a database of one or more authorized authentication tokens and provide the validated the authentication token to the application content server step . When the application content server authenticates the SSO authentication token step the application content server can allow content transfer between the application content server and the application .

In this way a SSO authentication token can be received securely by the requesting application via an encrypted transport protocol and the use of an identification code directed to the requesting application via the cellular modem . In addition once a SSO authentication token has been received the SSO authentication token may be securely routed and shared by an operating system of mobile station based on routing rules defined by application with other applications and on mobile station

Responsive to the request for the identification code provided by the application the identification code is received as a messaging service message e.g. Short Messaging Service SMS message from the subscriber profile controller step and provided to the token routing application on mobile station step . As discussed above the messaging service message may be provided via the cellular modem of mobile station

The token routing application may then request the user to provide or enter the identification code via a user interface of the mobile device. As an example the user may read the received identification code from a message inbox of mobile station and then provide the identification code via the user interface. Once the user enters the identification code via the user interface the identification code is then routed to the requesting application step . In this way the user may be manually required to enter an authentication code to ensure that the user is granting explicit access to the token routing application to request an authentication token that may be needed to authenticate applications for the user. In some implementations other security measures may be used including but not limited to adding a user name or any other user or device identifier to the identification code being provided by the user via the user interface.

Upon receipt of the identification code at the application the application requests a SSO authentication token for the application from subscriber profile controller step . Thus the application may not be able to request an authentication token until it has received the identification code authorizing the application to proceed with the request for the authentication token. This allows only authorized applications i.e. applications that possess an identification code from subscriber profile controller to obtain a SSO authentication token. Other un authorized applications including processes that may have malicious intent to improperly retrieve a user s SSO authentication token are not able to retrieve the SSO authentication token from subscriber profile controller . This not only improves security of the SSO authentication token but also security of a user s account with an application.

The subscriber profile controller provides the SSO authentication token to the application using the encrypted transport protocol step . Upon receipt of the SSO authentication token at the application the received SSO authentication token can be provided by the application to an application content server to authenticate the application with the application content server step . Additionally the application content server may also validate the token with the subscriber profile controller . For example the subscriber profile controller may receive the authentication token from application content server step check the authentication token against a database of one or more authorized authentication tokens and provide the validated the authentication token to the application content server step . When the application content server authenticates the SSO authentication token step the application content server can allow content transfer between the application content server and the application .

In this way a SSO authentication token can be received securely by the requesting application via an encrypted transport protocol and the use of an identification code directed to the requesting application . In addition once a SSO authentication token has been retrieved the SSO authentication token may be securely routed and shared by an operating system of mobile station based on routing rules defined by token routing application with other applications and on mobile station . Routing rules defined by the token routing application may be read by an operating system of mobile station to route the message to an application on the mobile station . In this way in some implementations the token routing application may act to configure routing of an authentication token to a requesting application e.g. application based on routing rules defined by the token routing application . These routing rules defined by token routing application may be read by an operating system of mobile station to further route the authentication to another application on the mobile station . An example routing rule may indicate that when a SMS message with an identification code including a particular prefix is detected the SMS message is to be routed to a specific application. For example a routing rule may indicate that when a SMS message is prefixed with VZW MVM the contents of the message are to be routed to the My Verizon Mobile MVM application on mobile station

The application may not be able to request an authentication token until it has received the identification code authorizing the application to proceed with the request for the authentication token. This allows only authorized applications i.e. applications that possess an identification code from subscriber profile controller to obtain a SSO authentication token. Other un authorized applications including processes that may have malicious intent to improperly retrieve a user s SSO authentication token are not able to retrieve the SSO authentication token from subscriber profile controller . This not only improves security of the SSO authentication token but also security of a user s account with an application.

Referring to a process for secure receipt and sharing of a SSO authentication token between applications can be initiated when a request for an identification code is provided from the token routing application on mobile station to the subscriber profile controller step .

Responsive to the request for the identification code provided by the token routing application the identification code may be received as a messaging service message e.g. Short Messaging Service SMS message from the subscriber profile controller step and provided to the token routing application on mobile station step . As discussed above the messaging service message may be provided via the cellular modem of mobile station

Upon receipt of the identification code at the token routing application the application requests a SSO authentication token from subscriber profile controller step . As an example the application may use the received identification code and device information of the mobile station including but not limited to a device operating system version a MDN and SIM credential of the mobile station to generate a hash value. The hash value may be generated by SSO function library . The hash value may be provided by the application to the subscriber profile controller in the request for the authentication token. In some aspects the subscriber profile controller may verify the hash value against a subscriber database prior to providing an authentication token to the application .

The subscriber profile controller provides the SSO authentication token to the token routing application using the encrypted transport protocol step . Upon receipt of the SSO authentication token at the application the token routing application may store the received SSO authentication token in a memory of the cellular modem step . Such storage may be performed for example by using a modem tunnel Application Programming Interface API . The stored SSO authentication token may be retrieved from the memory of the modem by application step . Such retrieval may be performed for example by using the model tunnel API.

Upon receipt of the SSO authentication token at the application the retrieved SSO authentication token e.g. SSO token can be provided by the application to an application content server to authenticate the application with the application content server step . Additionally the application content server may additionally validate the token with the subscriber profile controller . For example the subscriber profile controller may receive the authentication token from application content server step check the authentication token against a database of one or more authorized authentication tokens and provide the validated the authentication token to the application content server step . When the application content server authenticates the SSO authentication token step the application content server can allow content transfer between the application content server and the application .

In this way a SSO authentication token can be received securely by the token routing application via an encrypted transport protocol and the use of an identification code directed to the token routing application . In addition once a SSO authentication token has been retrieved from the memory of the cellular modem the SSO authentication token may be securely routed and shared by the token routing application with other applications and on mobile station . Routing rules defined by token routing application may be read by an operating system of mobile station to route the message to an application on the mobile station . In this way in some implementations the token routing application may configure routing of an authentication token to a requesting application e.g. application based on routing rules defined by the token routing application .

The application may not be able to request an authentication token until it has received the identification code authorizing the application to proceed with the request for the authentication token. This allows only authorized applications i.e. applications that possess an identification code from subscriber profile controller to obtain a SSO authentication token. Other un authorized applications including processes that may have malicious intent to improperly retrieve a user s SSO authentication token are not able to retrieve the SSO authentication token from subscriber profile controller . This not only improves security of the SSO authentication token but also security of a user s account with an application.

Referring to in an implementation a process for secure receipt and sharing of a SSO authentication token between applications can be initiated when a request for an identification code is provided from the token routing application on mobile station to the subscriber profile controller step . The request may be provided by the token routing application using the SSO function library through an encrypted transport protocol.

Responsive to the request for the identification code provided by the token routing application the identification code is received as a messaging service message e.g. Short Messaging Service SMS message from the subscriber profile controller step and provided to the token routing application on mobile station step . As discussed above the messaging service message may be provided via a cellular modem of mobile station

Upon receipt of the identification code at the token routing application the token routing application requests a SSO authentication token from subscriber profile controller step . As an example the application may use the received identification code and device information of the mobile station including but not limited to a device operating system version a MDN and SIM credential of the mobile station to generate a hash value. The hash value may be generated by SSO function library . The hash value may be provided by the application to the subscriber profile controller in the request for the authentication token. In some aspects the subscriber profile controller may verify the hash value against a subscriber database prior to providing an authentication token to the application .

The subscriber profile controller provides the SSO authentication token to the token routing application using the encrypted transport protocol step .

Upon receipt of the SSO authentication token at the application the token routing application may store the received SSO authentication token in a memory of the cellular modem step . Such storage may be performed for example by using a modem tunnel Application Programming Interface API . In addition the SSO authentication token may be encrypted with a private key. The private key may be further encrypted with a different public key. In this way the stored authentication token remains in an encrypted state to keep the authentication token secure.

The stored SSO authentication token may be retrieved from the memory of the cellular modem by application step . Such retrieval may be performed for example by using the model tunnel API. When the SSO authentication token has been encrypted with the private key the application may decrypt the private key with the public key and then further decrypt the encrypted SSO authentication token with the decrypted private key.

Upon receipt of the decrypted SSO authentication token at the application step the retrieved SSO authentication token e.g. SSO token can be provided by the application to an application content server to authenticate the application with the application content server step . Additionally the application content server may also validate the token with the subscriber profile controller . For example the subscriber profile controller may receive the authentication token from application content server step check the authentication token against a database of one or more authorized authentication tokens and provide the validated the authentication token to the application content server step . When the application content server authenticates the SSO authentication token step the application content server can allow content transfer between the application content server and the application .

In this way a SSO authentication token can be received securely by the token routing application via an encrypted transport protocol and the use of an identification code directed to the token routing application . In addition once an application SSO authentication token has been retrieved the SSO authentication token may be securely routed and shared by an operating system of mobile station based on routing rules defined by token routing application with other applications and on mobile station . Routing rules defined by the token routing application may be read by an operating system of mobile station to route the message to an application on the mobile station . In this way in some implementations the token routing application configure routing of an authentication token to a requesting application e.g. application based on routing rules defined by the token routing application . The application may not be able to request an authentication token until it has received the identification code authorizing the application to proceed with the request for the authentication token. This allows only authorized applications i.e. applications that possess an identification code from subscriber profile controller to obtain an SSO authentication token. Other un authorized applications including processes that may have malicious intent to improperly retrieve a user s SSO authentication token are not able to retrieve the SSO authentication token from subscriber profile controller . This not only improves security of the SSO authentication token but also security of a user s account with an application.

The remote authentication service under consideration here may be delivered to touch screen type mobile stations as well as to non touch type mobile stations. Hence our simple example shows the mobile station MS as a non touch type mobile station and shows the mobile station MS as a touch screen type mobile station. An implementation of the remote authentication service using SSO credentials will involve at least some execution of programming in the mobile stations as well as implementation of user input output functions and data communications through the network from the mobile stations.

Those skilled in the art presumably are familiar with the structure programming and operations of the various types of mobile stations. However for completeness it may be useful to consider the functional elements aspects of two exemplary mobile stations and at a high level.

For purposes of such a discussion provides a block diagram illustration of an exemplary non touch type mobile station . Although the mobile station may be a smart phone or may be incorporated into another device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or the like for discussion purposes the illustration shows the mobile station is in the form of a handset. The handset embodiment of the mobile station functions as a normal digital wireless telephone station. For that function the station includes a microphone for audio signal input and a speaker for audio signal output. The microphone and speaker connect to voice coding and decoding circuitry vocoder . For a voice telephone call for example the vocoder provides two way conversion between analog audio signals representing speech or other audio and digital samples at a compressed bit rate compatible with the digital protocol of wireless telephone network communications or voice over packet Internet Protocol communications.

For digital wireless communications the handset also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR . Today the handset would be configured for digital wireless communications using one or more of the common network technology types. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile station utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. The mobile station may also be capable of analog operation via a legacy network technology.

The transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile station and the communication network. Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

The mobile station includes a display for displaying messages menus or the like call related information dialed by the user calling party numbers etc. including any messages relating to remote authentication using SSO credentials. A keypad enables dialing digits for voice and or data calls as well as generating selection inputs for example as may be keyed in by the user based on a displayed menu or as a cursor control and selection of a highlighted item on a displayed screen. The display and keypad are the physical elements providing a textual or graphical user interface. Various combinations of the keypad display microphone and speaker may be used as the physical input output elements of the graphical user interface GUI for multimedia e.g. audio and or video communications. Of course other user interface elements may be used such as a trackball as in some types of PDAs or smart phones.

In addition to normal telephone and data communication related input output including message input and message display functions the user interface elements also may be used for display of menus and other information to the user and user input of selections including any needed during remote authentication using SSO credentials. For example user interface elements may be used to receive user permission related to remote authentication using SSO credentials.

A microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile station in that it controls all operations of the mobile station in accord with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in the remote authentication procedure under consideration here. In the example the mobile station includes flash type program memory for storage of various software or firmware program routines and mobile configuration settings such as mobile directory number MDN and or mobile identification number MIN etc. The mobile station may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. In a present implementation the flash type program memory stores firmware such as a boot routine device driver software an operating system call processing software and vocoder control software and any of a wide variety of other applications such as client browser software and short message service software. The memories also store various data such as telephone numbers and server addresses downloaded data such as multimedia content and various data input by the user. Programming stored in the flash type program memory sometimes referred to as firmware is loaded into and executed by the microprocessor .

As outlined above the mobile station includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile station is capable of performing various desired functions including in this case the functions involved in the technique for providing remote authentication using SSO credentials.

For purposes of such a discussion provides a block diagram illustration of an exemplary touch screen type mobile station . Although possible configured somewhat differently at least logically a number of the elements of the exemplary touch screen type mobile station are similar to the elements of mobile station and are identified by like reference numbers in . For example the touch screen type mobile station includes a microphone speaker and vocoder for audio input and output functions much like in the earlier example. The mobile station also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR for digital wireless communications although the handset may include an additional digital or analog transceiver. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile station utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. As in the station the transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile station and the communication network. Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

As in the example of station a microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile station in that it controls all operations of the mobile station in accord with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in the remote authenticating procedure under consideration here. In the example the mobile station includes flash type program memory for storage of various program routines and mobile configuration settings. The mobile station may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. Hence outlined above the mobile station includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile station is capable of performing various desired functions including in this case the functions involved in the technique for providing remote authentication using SSO credentials.

In the example of the user interface elements included a display and a keypad. The mobile station may have a limited number of key but the user interface functions of the display and keypad are replaced by a touchscreen display arrangement. At a high level a touchscreen display is a device that displays information to a user and can detect occurrence and location of a touch on the area of the display. The touch may be an actual touch of the display device with a finger stylus or other object although at least some touchscreens can also sense when the object is in close proximity to the screen. Use of a touchscreen display as part of the user interface enables a user to interact directly with the information presented on the display.

Hence the exemplary mobile station includes a display which the microprocessor controls via a display driver to present visible outputs to the device user. The mobile station also includes a touch position sensor . The sensor is relatively transparent so that the user may view the information presented on the display . A sense circuit sensing signals from elements of the touch position sensor and detects occurrence and position of each touch of the screen formed by the display and sensor . The sense circuit provides touch position information to the microprocessor which can correlate that information to the information currently displayed via the display to determine the nature of user input via the screen.

The display and touch sensor and possibly one or more keys if included are the physical elements providing the textual and graphical user interface for the mobile station . The microphone and speaker may be used as additional user interface elements for audio input and output including with respect to some authentication related functions.

The structure and operation of the mobile stations and as outlined above were described to by way of example only.

As shown by the above discussion functions relating to the an enhanced authentication experience for remote authentication via a graphical user interface of a mobile station may be implemented on computers connected for data communication via the components of a packet data network operating as an subscriber profile controller and or as an content server as shown in . Although special purpose devices may be used such devices also may be implemented using one or more hardware platforms intended to represent a general class of data processing device commonly used to run server programming so as to implement the remote authentication functions discussed above albeit with an appropriate network connection for data communication.

As known in the data processing and communications arts a general purpose computer typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage media RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk drives etc. for code and data storage and one or more network interface cards or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data e.g. files used for remote authentication using SSO credentials. The software code is executable by the general purpose computer that functions as the subscriber profile controller and or that functions as an application at mobile station . In operation the code is stored within the general purpose computer platform. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate general purpose computer system. Execution of such code by a processor of the computer platform enables the platform to implement the methodology for remote authentication using SSO credentials in essentially the manner performed in the implementations discussed and illustrated herein.

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load.

A computer type user terminal device such as a PC or tablet computer similarly includes a data communication interface CPU main memory and one or more mass storage devices for storing user data and the various executable programs see . A mobile device type user terminal may include similar elements but will typically use smaller components that also require less power to facilitate implementation in a portable form factor. The various types of user terminal devices will also include various user input and output elements. A computer for example may include a keyboard and a cursor control selection device such as a mouse trackball joystick or touchpad and a display for visual outputs. A microphone and speaker enable audio input and output. Some smartphones include similar but smaller input and output elements. Tablets and other types of smartphones utilize touch sensitive display screens instead of separate keyboard and cursor control elements. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such user terminal devices also are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith.

Hence aspects of the methods of remote authentication outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another for example from a management server or host computer of the network into the computer platform of the network that can include the content server . Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement remote authentication using SSO etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

