---

title: Method, system and computer program product for interception, quarantine and moderation of internal communications of uncontrolled systems
abstract: Embodiments disclosed herein may intercept, quarantine, and moderate communications internal to an uncontrolled system. An example of an uncontrolled system may be a web application associated with a social networking site. In accessing the social networking site, a user may type in a message. An instance of the uncontrolled system running on the user's device may prepare a request containing the message. Some embodiment disclosed herein may determine that the message is subject to moderation, intercept the request, and place the message in a queue. This determination may be based on the destination of the request as well the type of the message. Some embodiments may reconstruct the original request for resubmission. If the session is expired, some embodiments may log in for the user and resubmit the reconstructed request. Some embodiments may simply wait for the next time the user logs in to resubmit the reconstructed request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09130822&OS=09130822&RS=09130822
owner: Socialware, Inc.
number: 09130822
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131101
---
This application is a continuation of and claims a benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of the filing date of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 785 276 filed May 21 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 601 114 entitled METHOD SYSTEM AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR INTERCEPTION QUARANTINE AND MODERATION OF INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS OF UNCONTROLLED SYSTEMS which is fully incorporated by reference herein.

This disclosure relates generally to web applications and more particularly to social networking applications. Even more particularly this disclosure relates to a system method and computer program product comprising instructions translatable by a computer to intercept quarantine and moderate communications internal to systems that are beyond the control of computing environments where embodiments disclosed herein may reside.

Advances in communications technology often change how people communicate and share information. More recently social networking sites are providing new ways for users to interact and keep others abreast of their personal and business dealings. The growth of social networking sites is staggering. New sites are emerging daily and new users are joining in droves. Today social networking sites are being used regularly by millions of people around the globe and it seems that social networking via websites will continue to be a part of everyday life at least in the United States.

The main types of social networking services provided by social networking sites are those which contain directories or categories a means to connect with friends and a means to recommend other individuals. For example a social networking site may allow a user to identify an individual as a friend a former classmate or an uncle. The social networking site may recommend to the user another individual as a potential friend and also provide a personalized web page for the user to interact with those that the user has identified as friends via the social networking site.

Some social networking sites provide functions in the form of web applications for members to create user profiles send messages to other members who are their friends and personalize web pages available to friends and or the general public. Through these web applications social networking sites can connect people at low cost and very high efficiency. Some entrepreneurs and businesses looking to expand their contact base have recognized these benefits and are utilizing some social networking sites as a customer relationship management tool for selling their products and services.

For businesses and entities alike looking to embrace social networking sites as an additional method to exchange information between employees clients vendors etc. the integration of social networking sites into their internal computing environments necessarily raises several critical concerns. What activities will people be allowed to be engaged in What information may be disclosed and to what extent Who is the information being disclosed to Is malicious or otherwise damaging material being accessed or allowed onto the business s computers How can a business manage the activities of particular users or groups 

Currently there are no viable solutions to these difficult questions as businesses do not have control over web applications and associated data provided by independent entities including social networking sites own and operated by such independent entities. Some businesses have the means to block traffic to and from social networking sites. Some businesses can only hope that their employees are only using these social networking sites in the best interest of the company. There is no guarantee that the employees may police their own access to and participation at social networking sites and there is always the concern of an employee knowingly or unknowingly posting confidential information on a social networking site. Because of these risks many businesses simply choose to deny their employees access to uncontrolled web applications and forgo the efficiencies and cooperative gains that may come from embracing social networking sites.

Traditionally to the extent that a business or entity allows users within its computing environment access to the Internet it has no ways of controlling monitoring and or archiving communications between its users and web applications that are not provided by the business or entity. This type of web applications is referred to herein as uncontrolled web applications as they are not controlled by the business or entity that operates the computing environment from where user requests for access are generated. Uncontrolled web applications or software systems are collectively referred to herein as uncontrolled systems. Uncontrolled systems may come in various forms. One example of an uncontrolled system may be an application running on a social networking site such as Facebook.

While web scanning systems may be able to monitor network traffic and detect certain words or patterns and block a request to a social networking site they have no method to block the request elegantly without breaking the user experience. Moreover conventional web scanning systems have no means of resubmitting the request if it is approved by a moderator.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide a system method and computer program programming comprising one or more non transitory computer readable storage media storing computer instructions for intercepting quarantine and moderating internal communications of uncontrolled systems. In some embodiments the functionality disclosed herein can be implemented as a middleware or proxy within or outside an enterprise computing environment a private network or the like.

In some embodiments a method for intercepting quarantine and moderating internal communications of an uncontrolled system may comprise loading an instance of the uncontrolled system on a device associated with a user in a computing environment. The uncontrolled system may reside at a server computer external to and independent and separate from the computing environment. During the course of accessing the uncontrolled system the user may type in a message as usual. An instance of the uncontrolled system running on the user s device may prepare a request containing the message. Some embodiments disclosed herein may determine that the message is subject to moderation intercept the request and place the message in a moderation queue. This determination may be based on the destination of the request as well the type of the message.

In some embodiments a computer may perform the interception and put the original request in a moderation queue. In some embodiments the moderation queue may reside within or outside of the computing environment. In some embodiments a proxy or middleware server computer may perform all the functions disclosed herein including interception quarantine moderation resubmission and so on.

In some embodiments moderation may comprise automated moderation manual moderation or a combination thereof. Through moderation intercepted requests may be blocked or allowed to be resubmitted. When an intercepted request is approved for resubmission some embodiments may reconstruct the original request. If a session corresponding to the original request has since expired some embodiments may log in for the user and resubmit the reconstructed request. Some embodiments may simply wait for the next time the user logs in to resubmit the reconstructed request. Some embodiments may comprise a plurality of application programming interfaces APIs each of which is specific to an uncontrolled system and may communicate the reconstructed request with the uncontrolled system via a corresponding API.

Because embodiments disclosed herein have the ability to intercept quarantine and moderate communications internal to uncontrolled systems it may not be necessary for an entity operating a private network to block its users from accessing such uncontrolled systems entirely. In this way it is possible for entities and enterprises alike to gain benefits that may come from embracing social networking sites without risking the downsides of allowing their users access to uncontrolled web applications.

These and other aspects of the disclosure will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following description while indicating various embodiments of the disclosure and numerous specific details thereof is given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements may be made within the scope of the disclosure without departing from the spirit thereof and the disclosure includes all such substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements.

The disclosure and various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the exemplary and therefore non limiting embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of known programming techniques computer software hardware operating platforms and protocols may be omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the disclosure in detail. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating the preferred embodiments are given by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Various substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements within the spirit and or scope of the underlying inventive concept will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure.

Software implementing embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented in suitable computer executable instructions that may reside on one or more computer readable storage media. Within this disclosure the term computer readable storage media encompasses all types of data storage media that can be read by a processor. Examples of computer readable storage media can include random access memories read only memories hard drives data cartridges magnetic tapes floppy diskettes flash memory drives optical data storage devices compact disc read only memories and other appropriate computer memories and data storage devices.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process product article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process product article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

Additionally any examples or illustrations given herein are not to be regarded in any way as restrictions on limits to or express definitions of any term or terms with which they are utilized. Instead these examples or illustrations are to be regarded as being described with respect to one particular embodiment and as illustrative only. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any term or terms with which these examples or illustrations are utilized encompass other embodiments as well as implementations and adaptations thereof which may or may not be given therewith or elsewhere in the specification and all such embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of that term or terms. Language designating such non limiting examples and illustrations includes but is not limited to for example for instance e.g. in one embodiment and the like.

Those skilled in the arts will recognize that the disclosed embodiments have relevance to a wide variety of areas in addition to the specific examples described below. For example although the examples below are described in the context of employers and employees some embodiments disclosed herein can be adapted or otherwise implemented to work in other types of relationships circumstances and places such as public libraries parent child school student or any other place or relationship where it is desirable to monitor and protect network traffic to and from social networking sites.

In some cases proxy of company network may monitor and block all network traffic to and from one or more social networking sites by way of a firewall implemented on proxy . As known to those skilled in the art a firewall may be implemented as a part of a computer system or network that is designed to block unauthorized access while permitting authorized communications. A firewall may be implemented as a device or a set of devices configured to permit deny encrypt decrypt or proxy all incoming and outgoing network traffic between different domains based upon a set of rules and other criteria. Firewalls may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both. Firewalls are frequently used to prevent unauthorized Internet users from accessing private networks connected to the Internet especially intranets. Generally all messages entering or leaving the intranet pass through the firewall which examines each message and blocks those that do not meet the specified security criteria.

Proxy represents a server computer that acts as an intermediary for requests from user seeking resources from other servers including those that reside outside of network . Those skilled in the art can appreciate that user is a representation of a typical user in company network and may include software and hardware utilized by the user to access company network and Internet .

Computing system may include a variety of computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by computing system . By way of example and not of limitation computer readable storage media may comprise volatile and nonvolatile storage media and removable and non removable storage media. Computer readable storage media storing computer instructions implementing embodiments disclosed herein may be manufactured by known methods and materials and may rely on known programming languages and techniques for storage of information thereon. Examples of computer readable storage media may include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing system .

In the example shown in system memory includes ROM and RAM . ROM may store basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computing system such as those used during start up. RAM may store data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not of limitation shows RAM storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

Computing system may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer readable storage media that can be employed to store computer instructions implementing some embodiments disclosed herein. By way of example only computing system may include hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive and or optical disk drive . Hard drive HD may read from and write to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media. Disk drive may read from and write to removable nonvolatile magnetic disk . Optical disk drive may read from and write to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical medium. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer readable storage media are also possible. As illustrated in hard drive may be connected to system bus via a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive may be connected to system bus via a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer readable storage media discussed above may provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for computing system . For example hard disk drive may store operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

A user may enter commands and information into computing system via input devices such as tablet or electronic digitizer microphone keyboard and pointing device . Pointing device may comprise a mouse a trackball and or a touch pad. These and other input devices may be connected to processing unit via user input interface . User input interface may be coupled to system bus or via other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB .

Monitor or other type of display device may be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video interface . Monitor may also be integrated with a touch screen panel or the like. Note that the monitor and or touch screen panel can be physically coupled to a housing in which computing system is incorporated such as in a tablet type personal computer. Computing system may comprise additional peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected via an output peripheral interface or the like.

Computing system may operate in a networked environment and may have logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computing system . Remote computing system may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node. Although only a memory storage device is shown in remote computing system may include many or all of the components and features described above with reference to computing system .

Logical connections between computing system and remote computing system may include local area network LAN connecting through network interface and wide area network WAN connecting via modem . Additional networks may also be included.

Embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented to run on various platforms operating under system software such as IBM OS 2 Linux UNIX Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OSX and others in development or commercially available. The functionality disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in any combination of the two. Furthermore software operations may be executed in part or wholly by one or more servers or a client s system via hardware software module or any combination of the two. A software module program or executable may reside on one or more computer readable storage media described above. In an exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may also reside in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . The bus may be an optical or conventional bus operating pursuant to various protocols that are known to those skilled in the art.

In an illustrative embodiment computer instructions implementing some embodiments disclosed herein may comprise lines of compiled C Java or other language code. Other architectures may be used. In the hardware configuration above various software components may reside on any single computer or on any combination of separate computers. In some embodiments some or all of the software components may reside on the same computer. In some embodiments the functions of any of the systems and methods may be performed by a single computer. In some embodiments different computers than are shown in may perform those functions. Additionally a computer program or its software components with such code may be embodied in more than one computer readable medium in more than one computer.

More specifically as described below in more detail code of uncontrolled system is responsible for communications . This is in contrast to the generic network traffic described above with reference to where a browser application running on a device associated with user usually acts as the user agent and is generally responsible for preparing a request and submitting the request to a network site external to computing environment .

Referring also to when user types in a message code may formulate a request containing the message. Following the above example when user types in a tweet the Twitter JavaScript may formulate an http request containing the tweet for posting to the user s twitter account maintained by Twitter. Proxy server residing in computing environment or middleware of system may determine whether the request from user is destined for uncontrolled system step . If the request from user is not destined for uncontrolled system the request is processed normally and flow returns to step to continue to monitor internal communications . If the request from user is destined for uncontrolled system proxy server or middleware may determine whether the request is subject to interception step based on the destination of the request as well as the type of message in the request. If the request from user is not subject to interception proxy server or middleware may forward the request to its destination step . If the request from user is subject to interception proxy server or middleware may put the request through a moderation flow step . In some embodiments this involves placing a job corresponding to the request in a moderation queue. In some embodiments moderation queue may reside within computing environment . In some embodiments moderation queue may reside outside of computing environment .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that it may not be necessary to perform all the steps of method and that some steps may be skipped. Further in some embodiments additional steps may be included in method . Other modifications and variations may be possible without departing from the scopes and the spirits of this disclosure.

In some embodiments method may further comprise performing moderation on one or more jobs in the moderation queue step . In some embodiments middleware may comprise a plurality of software tools including moderation . In some embodiments moderation may be automated or semi automated. In some embodiments method may further comprise determining whether to block a request or allow it to be resubmitted to uncontrolled system step . In some embodiments if the request is not approved via moderation the request is blocked step . In some embodiments if the request is approved method may further comprise performing resubmission of the approved request step . In some embodiments this may involve reconstructing the original intercepted request.

If a session corresponding to the original request has since expired some embodiments may log in for the user and resubmit the reconstructed request. Some embodiments may simply wait for the next time the user logs in to resubmit the reconstructed request. Some embodiments may comprise a plurality of application programming interfaces APIs each of which is specific to an uncontrolled system and may communicate the reconstructed request with the uncontrolled system via a corresponding API.

Company B may comprise hardware software infrastructure and people necessary to operate and maintain social networking site . Social networking site may be implemented in a manner known to those skilled in the art. As a specific example a user may log in to social networking site via a browser application or via a mobile application running on the user s wired or wireless computing device. Examples of a wireless computing device may include but are not limited to a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile phone an Internet enabled mobile device and so on.

In the example of proxy resides within network and is bi directionally coupled to end user via a wired or wireless internal network connection. Proxy may be communicatively coupled to social network over Internet . In some embodiments proxy may function as a gateway or intermediary between end user and social networking site . More specifically proxy may be responsible for receiving all incoming requests from and sending corresponding responses to end user . As illustrated in in some embodiments of flow proxy may operate to receive a user request from user step determine whether that request contains a destination pertaining to social networking site step and either pass the request from user that is destined to social networking site to middleware for processing step or pass the request to the destination step if it is not destined to social networking site .

As described above in some embodiments as users in network post messages to social networking site or any of the sites designated as subject to interception middleware may operate to stop these messages and send them through a moderation process step . If a message is to be blocked step middleware may simulate a response to the user device from where the message is originated. The simulated response may resemble a response from social networking site with an indication that the user s message has been blocked. An example of such a response may be a web page that is structured and assembled by middleware on the fly with at least one feature level modification to inform the user that the message has been blocked. In some embodiments other than certain feature s being disabled or unavailable to user the simulated response generated by middleware may be substantially similar to a corresponding response generated by social networking site . Readers are directed to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 785 294 filed May 21 2010 entitled METHOD SYSTEM AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR STRUCTURING UNSTRUCTURED DATA ORIGINATING FROM UNCONTROLLED WEB APPLICATION for examples of structuring unstructured data originating from an uncontrolled web application and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 785 278 filed May 21 2010 entitled METHOD SYSTEM AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR ENFORCING ACCESS CONTROLS TO FEATURES AND SUBFEATURES ON UNCONTROLLED WEB APPLICATION for examples of feature level modifications to data originating from an uncontrolled web application. Within this disclosure features subfeatures of an uncontrolled application refer to software components subcomponents of the uncontrolled application. In some embodiments a feature or subfeature of an uncontrolled application may be a function that allows a user to take a certain action via the uncontrolled application. Non limiting examples of features may include status update wall post messaging chat photo upload commenting and so on. Non limiting examples of subfeatures may include functions involved when using a feature. For example a like button associated with the status update feature may be considered as a subfeature. Moreover certain features subfeatures may be common to two or more social networking sites. Status update may be one example feature that is common to many social networking sites.

In the example of middleware resides and operates outside of network . In some embodiments middleware may reside within network . depicts a diagrammatic representation of another system architecture in which the internal communication of an uncontrolled system is intercepted by an embodiment of middleware disclosed herein. In some embodiments of system middleware may be implemented as part of proxy . In some embodiments of system middleware may be implemented as a service to proxy .

Unlike conventional network traffic interception the interception disclosed here is source destination specific as well as content type specific. In some embodiments middleware may have prior knowledge of what uncontrolled systems may be accessed by users in network . For example middleware may have access to a list of universal resource locator URL addresses that are associated with uncontrolled systems and that are subject to interception quarantine and or moderation. An example of such an URL may be . In some embodiments middleware may have prior knowledge of what type of content in a user request referencing one of the designated URL would be subject to interception. For example middleware may inspect or parse the request and determine that the request is of the status update type and as such is subject to interception.

In some embodiments an automated moderation process may comprise determining a type of the request and processing a payload of the request accordingly. For example if it is determined that the request is of the status update type the automated moderation process may determine that the payload of the request should be blocked. An example of such a payload may be status hello world .

As another example middleware may inspect or parse the request and determine that the request is subject to quarantine and operate to isolate the request without putting the request through any moderation process.

In some embodiments middleware may inspect or parse the request and determine how the request should be automatically moderated based on a variety of factors including but are not limited to company policies business rules feature types keywords patterns user privilege user role etc.

An example of a pattern of interest may be a 16 digit number representing a credit card number that the user has provided in the request to the uncontrolled system. In one embodiment middleware may operate to intercept such a request and block the user s submission of the credit card number. Another example of a pattern of interest may be a social security number.

In some embodiments the feature types that would be useful in automated moderation may include but are not limited to the following 

Within each feature type there may be subtypes subfeatures . For example the subtypes of broadcasts may include wall posts tweets status updates etc. The subtypes of actions may include adding a friend making a recommendation searching a friend a word a page an event and so on. The subtypes of profile may include name location hobbies links etc. The subtypes of directed messages may include private messages group mail web based mail etc. Each source or social networking site would have a distinct set of features or application components including subfeatures or subcomponents one or more of which may be of interest to Company A for the purpose of controlling accesses thereto by users of network . In some embodiments the definitions or specifications of source specific features and subfeatures may be maintained in a centralized location such as a library or a database that is accessible by middleware .

In some embodiments a semi automated moderation process may comprise conducting an automatic coarse analysis of an intercepted request and forwarding the request for a more detailed manual review or evaluation. In some embodiments middleware may implement a completely automated process i.e. intercept and moderate every request designating an uncontrolled system a mostly manual moderation process and something in between. For example in some embodiments middleware may randomly intercept 20 of the requests in network designating uncontrolled systems .

In some embodiments middleware may comprise filters. Within this disclosure a filter comprises a piece of code that is designed to recognize a particular portion of an application level dynamic protocol. Hypertext Transfer protocol http is an example of an application level protocol. Unlike defined or otherwise standardized protocols such as those used in e mail communications and instant messaging dynamic protocols used by social networking sites may change over time be undefined and or vary from site to site. Dynamic protocols are known to those skilled in the art and techniques for parsing network traffic in such protocols are also known to those skilled in the art.

In some embodiments middleware may comprise various filters for parsing and access control. Below is an example of a filter for parsing an example HTML message from a social networking site known as Facebook.

Middleware may further comprise various filters for content control and for understanding how when and what application external to network is changing and or what type of change is involved. It could be a functional change a layout change a message format change etc. For example some embodiments may implement one or more of the following non limiting types of filters 

Below are non limiting examples of various types of filters written for the example social networking site Facebook.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that other types of filters are also possible and that these filters would be source specific and may vary from implementation to implementation.

Note that middleware filters disclosed herein are distinct from filters used by conventional web scanning systems. While web scanning systems may be able to monitor network traffic and detect certain words or patterns and block a request to a social networking site they have no method to block the request elegantly without breaking the user experience. One reason is that when a web filter blocks an http request it generally does not send a response back to the application that made the request. Consequently the application either continues to run indefinitely or simply times out thereby breaking the user experience. This kind of web filters is generally applied to all the network traffic under monitoring without regard to the destination. Moreover conventional web scanning systems have no means of resubmitting the request if it is approved by a moderator.

On the other hand some network sites may utilize internal filters to monitor incoming traffic and perform some kind of moderation before forwarding an incoming request to its internal destination. depicts a diagrammatic representation of a prior art architecture in which internal communication of uncontrolled system in network is not intercepted but is moderated via internal moderator . As illustrates this approach does not provide network with the ability to moderate internal communications and network remains unable to control the content including possibly confidential information submitted by user to uncontrolled system .

Although shown and described throughout this disclosure with specific reference to an enterprise this disclosure is intended to encompass other networking and business environments including but not limited to small businesses individual users homes public networks etc. It should be understood that the description is by way of example only and is not to be construed in a limiting sense. It is to be further understood therefore that numerous changes in the details of the embodiments disclosed herein and additional embodiments will be apparent to and may be made by persons of ordinary skill in the art having reference to this description. For example in addition to the above described embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that this disclosure has application in a wide array of arts in addition to social networking and this disclosure is intended to include the same. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure should be determined by the following claims and their legal equivalents.

