---

title: Increasing entropy for password and key generation on a mobile device
abstract: Methods, apparatus and articles of manufacture for increasing entropy for password and key generation on a mobile device are provided herein. A method includes establishing a pre-determined set of cryptographic information, wherein said pre-determined set of cryptographic information comprises one or more input elements and one or more interface input behavior metrics associated with the one or more input elements; generating a prompt via a computing device interface in connection with an authentication request to access a protected resource associated with the computing device; processing input cryptographic information entered via the computing device interface in response to the prompt against the pre-determined set of cryptographic information; and resolving the authentication request based on said processing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09160744&OS=09160744&RS=09160744
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 09160744
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130925
---
In the mobile domain challenges exist with respect to the generation of keys and protecting secrets or sensitive assets. Existing approaches include the following procedures for attempting to protect a secret on a mobile device implementing a hardware security module incorporating stable system values and or utilizing a passphrase and or passcode authentication.

Additionally in existing approaches the majority of mobile devices include neither a hardware root of trust nor a prevalent hardware based method of protecting a key. Other devices include embedded secure elements such as smart cards but such devices do not provide open application programming interfaces APIs that can be accessible to developers. Further stable system values such as an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI are isolated from a developer. Accordingly mobile device and or application management tools mobile device management MDM and mobile application management MAM respectively generally use passphrases to protect secrets and or sensitive assets. However passphrases and personal identification numbers PINs used in connection with mobile devices commonly have low amounts of entropy making such security features vulnerable to attack.

One or more illustrative embodiments of the present invention provide techniques for increasing entropy for password and key generation on a mobile device.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention a method is provided comprising the steps of establishing a pre determined set of cryptographic information wherein said pre determined set of cryptographic information comprises one or more input elements and one or more interface input behavior metrics associated with the one or more input elements generating a prompt via a computing device interface in connection with an authentication request to access a protected resource associated with the computing device processing input cryptographic information entered via the computing device interface in response to the prompt against the pre determined set of cryptographic information and resolving the authentication request based on said processing.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention a method is provided comprising the steps of generating each of multiple input elements to be associated with a computing device in response to user activity in connection with the computing device displaying the multiple generated input elements via an interface of the computing device determining one or more input modality parameters associated with the multiple generated input elements and generating a prompt via the computing device interface. Such a method also comprises processing input cryptographic information entered via the computing device interface in response to the prompt against the multiple generated input elements and the one or more input modality parameters wherein said processing comprises establishing the multiple generated input elements and the one or more input modality parameters as a pre determined set of cryptographic information to be used in connection with an authentication request to access a protected resource associated with the computing device if the input cryptographic information matches the multiple generated input elements and the one or more input modality parameters.

The cryptographic techniques of the illustrative embodiments overcome one or more of the problems associated with the conventional techniques described previously and provide mobile device security. These and other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description.

As will be described the present invention in one or more illustrative embodiments provides techniques for adding entropy to key generation on a mobile device.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention will be described herein with reference to exemplary communication systems and associated processing devices. It is to be appreciated however that the invention is not restricted to use with the particular illustrative system and device configurations shown.

Accordingly the term communication system as used herein is intended to be broadly construed so as to encompass any type of system in which multiple processing devices can communicate with one another. Also the term computing device as used herein is intended to be construed broadly so as to encompass any type of processing device that incorporates among other things cryptographic functionality such as a computer tablet server mobile telephone or device smart phone radio frequency identification RFID tag or reader authentication token etc. . Similarly the term authentication server should be understood to encompass any type of processing device or set of such devices that is operative to authenticate a password provided by an authentication token or other type of computing device. As used herein an authentication server need not be a network based server and may be implemented as a portion of a device that performs other functions as a combination of multiple servers or other devices or in other forms.

Also cryptographic information as used herein is intended to include passwords answers to life questions or other authentication credentials or values derived from such authentication credentials or more generally any other information that a user may be required to submit in order to obtain access to an access controlled application such as a key. As described herein in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention cryptographic information includes a key stored and or protected within data for example user related data selected from local memory on a user mobile device. By way of further example such a cryptographic key can be used for encryption decryption hash based message authentication code HMAC operations and or signature operations. Additionally as used herein a combination code includes any form of secret sequence of characters numbers words pictures etc.

As indicated above in at least one example embodiment of the invention described herein a CSCD can include a mobile device such as a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet etc. Additionally as depicted in the network may comprise for example a global computer network such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a satellite network a telephone or cable network or various portions or combinations of these and other types of networks.

According to one aspect of the invention as noted above the user of the CSCD is authenticated using a password also referred to herein in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention as a combination code generated by the security token generator by authentication servers . The exemplary communications among the system elements and of to achieve joint authentication by the authentication servers is discussed further below.

It is to be appreciated that a given embodiment of the disclosed system may include multiple instances of CSCD security token and protected resource and possibly other system components although only single instances of such components are shown in the simplified system diagram of for clarity of illustration.

The security token is shown in as being separate from and electrically connected to the CSCD . The security token may be a server or other type of module that is accessible over the network or it may be a software component resident on the CSCD . As another alternative security token may be distributed over multiple devices one of which may be the CSCD . Also for example the security token can encompass a handheld device with no connection to the other noted components or can encompass a software application running on the CSCD .

Accordingly while at least one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated herein using a security token electrically connected to the CSCD such that the CSCD can read a given token code or another authentication value directly from the security token other implementations are within the scope of the present invention such as radio frequency RF infrared etc. as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art. By way of example for security tokens that are not connectable to a computer or other user device in this manner the user may manually enter a password or another value displayed by the security token at the time of the attempted access as further detailed herein in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention.

As noted the CSCD may represent a portable device such as a mobile telephone personal digital assistant PDA wireless email device game console etc. The CSCD may alternatively represent a desktop or laptop personal computer PC a microcomputer a workstation a mainframe computer a wired telephone a television set top box or any other information processing device which can benefit from the use of cryptographic techniques in accordance with the invention.

The CSCD may also be referred to herein as simply a user. The term user as used in this context should be understood to encompass by way of example and without limitation a user device a person utilizing or otherwise associated with the device or a combination of both. An operation described herein as being performed by a user may therefore for example be performed by a user device a person utilizing or otherwise associated with the device or by a combination of both the person and the device. Similarly a password or other cryptographic information described as being associated with a user may for example be associated with a CSCD device a person utilizing or otherwise associated with the device or a combination of both the person and the device.

As also depicted in the authentication servers are typically associated with a third party entity such as an authentication authority that processes authentication requests on behalf of web servers and other resources as well as verifies the cryptographic information that is presented by a CSCD .

Further the protected resource may be for example an access controlled application web site or hardware device. In other words a protected resource is a resource that grants user access responsive to an authentication process as will be described in greater detail below. For example protected resource may include an access controlled file e mail a protected application a remote application server such as a web site or other software program or hardware device that is accessed by the CSCD over a network .

Additionally in at least one embodiment of the invention protected resource can include one or more applications or data residing on the CSCD itself. For example such a protected resource can include access to a mobile data management container for launching applications on the CSCD such as a mobile device which can be protected requiring a successful token based authentication in order to run the application s protected by the container. Further protected resource could also include an access controlled file e mail a protected application a remote application server such as a web site or other software program or hardware device that is accessed by the CSCD over a network . Similarly it is possible that in order to unlock the mobile platform to perform operations a successful authentication with the security token might be required.

As described herein at least one embodiment of the invention includes generating and or providing a user interface for a mobile device that presents a virtual combination lock presenting numbers characters and or images to introduce additional entropy to the cryptographic process. Additionally at least one embodiment of the invention includes facilitating ease and accuracy of use regarding a cryptographic process response entry on a mobile device. For example implementing an aspect of directionality with respect to a virtual combination lock can ameliorate challenges faced by users with broad or sizeable fingers and or devices with small keyboards or input buttons.

Additionally for completeness cellular phone circuitry within mobile device allows the user to establish cellular phone calls with other callers having remote devices as would be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

The memory of mobile device is configured to store one or more software constructs including for example an operating system an authentication application data for protected resources documents restricted applications etc. a cryptographic information file as well as other suitable or relevant material. Further the processing circuitry of mobile device is configured to operate in accordance with the software constructs stored in the memory . By way of example when the processing circuitry runs the operating system the processing circuitry provides a secure electronic platform on which a user is able to carry out work. Such an electronic platform is capable of operating for example as a container to protect data and requiring user authentication before permitting access. Further when the processing circuitry runs the authentication application the processing circuitry communicates with the local authentication client in a secure manner for example to obtain cryptographic information etc. from storage buffer as additionally described herein.

It should be appreciated that the processing circuitry can include one or more processors running specialized software components such as detailed in connection with the techniques detailed herein and further depicted in .

In at least one embodiment of the invention once the mobile device is able to obtain valid cryptographic information the user of the mobile device is able to perform local user authentication to access protected resources. Accordingly as noted the mobile device is provisioned with the authentication application and cryptographic information file holding pre determined cryptographic information. For example and as further detailed in connection with such pre determined cryptographic information can include one or more input elements such as letters numbers characters etc. and one or more interface input behavior metrics associated with the one or more input elements such as directionality velocity etc. . As further described herein such pre determined cryptographic information can be learned and updated over time.

Consequently the processing circuitry of the mobile device can perform a local cryptographic operation using cryptographic information stored in the memory . In at least one embodiment of the invention the processing circuitry runs the authentication application which directs the user of the mobile device via the user interface to enter cryptographic information which is captured as one or more input elements . Additionally the processing circuitry via a software component resident thereon calculates one or more interface input behavior metrics associated with the one or more input elements . While the captured cryptographic information and are temporarily stored in the storage buffer of the local authentication client the authentication application compares the captured user provided cryptographic information and with the appropriate expected items of cryptographic information from file .

If a match is determined via this comparison the authentication application permits the user to access a protected resource such as for example data in association with element that is stored in the memory .

Accordingly the captured one or more input elements and corresponding interface input behavior metrics can be stored in cryptographic information file as the pre determined cryptographic information for a given cryptographic process.

Consequently a corresponding cryptographic flow carried out for example by authentication application as run by operating system can take the following exemplary form. The user is prompted via user interface such as additionally depicted in or to enter cryptographic information in connection with an authentication request to access a protected resource associated with the mobile device for example the user wishes to access and or unlock his or her smart phone . The entered cryptographic information is captured by the processing circuitry as one or more input elements and the input behavior metric calculation component resident thereon calculates one or more interface input behavior metrics associated with the one or more entered input elements and stores both and temporarily in the storage buffer of the local authentication client .

Subsequently the authentication application compares the captured user provided cryptographic information and with the pre determined cryptographic information from file stored in memory . If the user entered input elements match those stored in file and if the one or more interface input behavior metrics associated with input elements also match those stored in file authentication is deemed successful and the user is granted access to the protected resource in question.

In an example scenario a user is prompted for a combination code upon requesting authentication for example when the user attempts to access or unlock his or her mobile phone . Subsequently the user enters each number in the sequence of numbers representing his or her combination code by manipulating the virtual combination lock for instance by swiping a finger in a circular direction over the virtual combination lock on the interface in a clockwise or counter clockwise direction until the virtual combination lock points to or otherwise indicates the desired number. The user repeats the process to enter the next number in the code in the alternate direction or the same direction until all numbers in the combination code are entered at which point the user can press or tap the button to enter the selected combination code. In this example embodiment of the invention the combination code can be thought of as the combination lock code which typically includes threes numbers. The user will have to remember the three numbers and enter the three numbers by rotating the virtual combination lock either left or right via a specified number of turns.

Additionally as an optional feature at least one embodiment of the invention can include the aspect of briefly presenting the entered number s in a window shown below the virtual combination lock in example interface .

Using a combination code entry method such as described above in connection with entropy is added to the cryptographic process by incorporating directionality of turns of the virtual combination lock as well as the number and directionality of turns of the virtual combination lock as elements in the process which can be selected during enrollment or by policy as further described herein .

Further at least one embodiment of the invention includes implementing a learning period wherein the mobile device discovers patterns regarding the velocity with which the user commonly enters his or her combination code. More generally one or more interface input behaviors are detected over time for example over a pre defined period of time or continuously to determine an identifiable value range for the one or more interface input behaviors for subsequent use as a cryptographic value. Input behaviors can include for example directionality of movement velocity of movement finger touch angle and pressure on a touch screen device size and shape of the fingerprint the orientation of the device etc. Such input behaviors indicate which hand and fingers the user typically uses to enter the code thereby adding another level of assurance about user identity.

Such items of data can be collected via the user interface for example a touch screen . Detected data points can be placed on a time based graph to observe and or determine a funnel like effect. For example it can be determined over time that the user password is entered on a given mobile device in a range of 1.5 seconds to 1.8 seconds based on detecting this given interface input behavior that is velocity over time. Therefore that value range could serve a cryptographic parameter in subsequent cryptographic actions. Additionally a range of such indicators such as velocity of entry as noted in the preceding example and selection of direction can be used.

Typically in combination locks the user alternates directionality first turning the virtual combination lock left then turning the virtual combination lock right and then turning the virtual combination lock left again or vice versa . For higher entropy one or more embodiments of the invention can include randomizing the directionality at enrollment time.

As noted above for example a mobile device can learn after an appropriate training period over a number of user entries that the combination code is commonly correctly entered within a duration range of 1.5 seconds to 1.8 seconds possibly with additional sub ranges covering each individual input of the combination code within that duration . Accordingly in such an embodiment of the invention authentication can be denied if the combination code even if the numerical and directional and or number of turns input is correct is entered slowly or quickly enough so as to fall outside of the learned range.

Additionally while the example interface depicted in illustrates a virtual combination lock with a numerical range from 0 99 it is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the invention can encompass and or incorporate numerous alternative features and or combinations of features. By way merely of example the virtual combination lock can include characters and or letters in lieu of or in addition to numbers. For instance a user can be required to initially select a password that includes multiple varying elements for example at least one capital letter at least one lower case letter and at least one number . Another alternative can include using words or a mix of words and numbers. For example the virtual combination lock can display at enrollment time 20 or more words that are randomly selected from a dictionary or names of things given a theme that the user selects cities teams animals birds etc . The words may include upper and lower characters. The user is then asked to select three or more favorite words to constitute a passphrase. Alternatively the virtual combination lock can include images symbols pictures and or colors for example.

Further in at least one embodiment of the invention a virtual combination lock can be used with two or more dials for example one smaller dial placed within a larger dial wherein the two or more dials of the virtual combination lock can include the same elements for example numbers letters characters colors etc. and or different elements from one another and the additional interface input behavior metrics of touch pressure touch angle directionality number of turns and velocity can be separately considered for each dial thereby incorporating additional entropy to the cryptographic process.

Additionally as noted above an embodiment of the invention such as depicted in for example can also facilitate use and or accuracy of user input in situations wherein for example the user has broad or large fingers or wherein the touch screen or keyboard or keypad on the device interface is of a small size such that erroneous inputs are commonly and or easily entered.

Similar to the illustration depicted in in an example scenario a user is prompted for a combination code upon requesting authentication and thereafter the user manipulates the virtual combination lock interface to enter each number in the sequence of numbers representing his or her combination code for instance by swiping a finger up or down over each dial on the interface until the virtual combination lock indicates the desired number at the targeted position on the virtual combination lock.

As specifically depicted in interface image shows a user turning the virtual combination lock two full turns to the right and then turning the virtual combination lock still to the right to the first desired number. Subsequently interface image shows the user turning the virtual combination lock to the left to the second desired number. Finally interface image shows the user turning the virtual combination lock to the right to the third desired number.

A virtual combination lock such as depicted in for example can be used to lock a device a container and or an application. Unlocking a device container application etc. using passwords typically requires verifying the password to authenticate the user and then deriving a data encryption key or a key wrapping key from the same password or parts of the password in combination with device hardware and or software attributes. The virtual combination lock can provide higher entropy than traditional combination codes and most user selected passwords and as noted herein a virtual combination lock may include any variation of numbers that can be adapted to the device s screen size.

At least one embodiment of the invention can include implementing a software application to generate the virtual combination lock numbers randomly via use of the device s accelerometer. Additionally an encryption key can be derived from the series of combination numbers and the numbers in between. Further and as additionally illustrated in the subsequent figures instead of numbers the combination lock can be displayed to the user as a wheel of colored circles rings shapes pictures words or combinations of the same that the user and or the system selects from a database of objects such as the device s gallery the device s address book or a cloud service .

Accordingly at least one embodiment of the invention includes an enrollment aspect. By way of example to create and register a virtual combination lock code for a device the user can shake and or move the device such as a smart phone in multiple directions for a period of time for example 20 seconds or more to generate the first random number using the device s accelerometer. A ring tone or other audio signal can be produced and played by the device when the first number is generated. In such an example embodiment the user continues to shake and or move the device to similarly generate a second and a third number or however many numbers as is required and or desired by the user or device . As should be appreciated by one skilled in the art a similar method can be used to select random words from a dictionary pictures from a local or remote database colors shapes etc.

Additionally the example enrollment process would continue via the device displaying the three randomly generated numbers and prompting the user to select a corresponding input combination mode such as right left right or left right left for example. A software application on the device then displays the virtual combination lock and prompts the user to open or unlock the virtual combination lock by providing step by step instructions including the randomly generated numbers. The software application additionally prompts the user to open the lock in this initial instance without any device provided instructions although the application can for example provide one or more hints to the user as needed until the user remembers correct input and opens the lock. In this example embodiment of the invention if the enrollment process times out or is interrupted at any stage the user must generate new random numbers to enroll.

To authenticate and unlock the virtual combination lock the user must turn the virtual combination lock of the lock to the correct numbers in the right sequence and in the right direction right left right or left right left as specified in the enrollment process. In at least one embodiment of the invention verification is performed after the all of numbers three numbers in the above example are selected and entered by the user. Failure to select the correct numbers after a pre determined number of attempts causes the device container and or the application to be locked for a pre determined period of time before the user can attempt to unlock the virtual combination lock again.

Additionally at least one embodiment of the invention includes an aspect of key derivation. Deriving an encryption key includes concatenating the selected combination lock numbers three numbers in the above example and all of the numbers in sequence to go from one number to the next number or until a fixed number of digits is collected to form a long string of digits. The string can then be used in a standard password based key derivation function to derive a desired cryptographic key. The salt can be generated for example on the server and provisioned and encrypted on the device using the native encryption on device. It is to be appreciated by one skilled in the art that one or more additional techniques can be used to generate salt.

By way merely of example illustrating an embodiment such as detailed in the above paragraph in a virtual combination lock of numbers from 0 to 49 assume that the randomly selected numbers during enrolment are 7 25 and 40 and the directionality is right left right. Accordingly the first right turn clockwise to number 7 from number 0 after two full turns for reset numbers 49 to 7 in descending order are selected to create the first string of 83 digits 494847 . . . 10987. The second left turn counter clockwise to number 25 from number 7 numbers 8 to 25 in ascending order are selected to create the second string of 34 digits 89101112 . . . 232425. The last right turn clockwise to number 40 from number 25 numbers 24 to 40 in descending order from 24 to 0 and then from 49 to 40 are selected to create the third string of 60 digits 242322 . . . 3210494847 . . . 40. The three strings are then concatenated to produce a very long string of 177 digits and the string of digits is then used with a salt in a key derivation function to derive an encryption key. It should be noted that adding all of the numbers from the current number to the next number as described above provides the same entropy as adding just the next number. The next number indicates whether the virtual combination lock is turned to right or to the left.

As noted herein many alternative design approaches can be implemented with respect to the device interface to enhance the security and or the usability of one or more embodiments of the invention. Some exemplary alternative approaches include the interfaces depicted in as well as .

In at least one embodiment of the invention implementing a picture based virtual combination lock interface the user selects the desired and or required number three in the example of secret pictures that is known and or selected exclusively by the user from a database in the device such as the user s photograph database contact photos photos stored in the cloud photos of friends in social networks etc. Additionally in at least one embodiment of the invention default system pictures can be provisioned onto each device or personalized pictures can be taken by the user using the device camera at enrollment and activation time. Also enrollment can occur in the same fashion as detailed above with respect to numerical inputs.

Further as noted herein at least one embodiment of the invention includes implementing a learning period wherein the mobile device discovers patterns regarding the velocity with which the user commonly enters his or her password numbers words picture based color based shape based etc and subsequently incorporating velocity as an additional entropy element for the cryptographic process as well as for example to provide a two factor authentication method. In addition to the velocity with which the user commonly enters his or her password at least one embodiment of the invention can additionally incorporate input behavior metrics including touch pressure and or touch angles.

Additionally at least one embodiment of the invention can include an implementation so as to protect cryptographic information such as a key in one or more data files resident on a mobile device. Such a key can for example be used to encrypt or lock a content container or an application container thereby serving to further protect data and or wrap applications that contain credentials. Additionally such a key or other piece of cryptographic information can for example be used to unlock or decrypt a container of additional keys. By way of example consider a scenario wherein a user attempts to access an application that is controlled by a mobile device management component such as email that includes both online and offline data. Accordingly in such a scenario the user is challenged to authenticate and provide entropy to generate a key to access his or her email.

Further while the examples depicted in above noted figures illustrate various configurations it is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the invention can encompass and or incorporate numerous alternative features and or combinations of features with respect to the dials and interface. By way of example the set of dials can include characters and or letters in lieu of or in addition to numbers. For instance as noted above a user can be required to initially select a password that includes multiple varying elements for example at least one capital letter at least one lower case letter and at least one number . Alternatively for example the set of dials can include images symbols pictures and or colors or a combination thereof. For example the user can be queried to select only three or four numbers words pictures etc. Characters can be used as long as a large set of characters are utilized from example all American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII printable characters and the user is required to select at least five characters for higher entropy.

At least one embodiment of the invention additionally includes hashing a combination of selected images and or pictures to leverage the entirety of data contained therein to add further entropy to a cryptographic process. Such an embodiment includes selecting an image object and running a hash function such as MD5 a message digest algorithm or a secure hash algorithm SHA thereon with or without salting and subsequently trimming or carrying out a partial selection for example selecting the first x bytes .

Further at least one embodiment of the invention includes re ordering the input user combination code after entry to incorporate an additional layer of entropy. For example a user can enter a correct combination code of 1 2 3 1 2 3 after which the mobile device can map this input combination code to a unique user via a mapping table so as to identify a re ordered version of the combination code for example 1 3 2 1 3 2 that is used by the device to grant authentication to the user. By way of example the mobile device can store such a mapping table in local memory or some other storage component. Similarly at least one embodiment of the invention includes mapping an input user combination code to a more sophisticated and or complex combination code after entry of the combination code by the user to incorporate an additional layer of entropy or to comply for example with a corporate policy in a corporate or enterprise context . For example a user can enter a correct combination code of 1 2 3 1 2 3 after which the mobile device can map this input combination code to a unique user via a mapping table so as to identify a separate version of the combination code for example B 8 k 0 W R 6 N A 2 P a t 9 L that is used by the device to grant authentication to the user.

As described herein interface input behavior metrics associated with the one or more input elements can include for example touch pressure of input via the computing device interface touch angle of input via the computing device interface directionality of input via the computing device interface a distinct number of iterations of an action in connection with input via the computing device interface and or velocity of input via the computing device interface.

Step includes generating a prompt via a computing device interface in connection with an authentication request to access a protected resource associated with the computing device. Step includes processing input cryptographic information entered via the computing device interface in response to the prompt against the pre determined set of cryptographic information. In at least one embodiment of the invention input cryptographic information can include one or more items of authentication information and said pre determined set of cryptographic information can include a set of authentication information.

Step includes resolving the authentication request based on said processing. Resolving the authentication request includes granting access to the protected resource associated with the computing device if the input cryptographic information matches the pre determined set of cryptographic information. Further resolving the authentication requests additionally includes denying access to the protected resource associated with the computing device if the input cryptographic information does not match the pre determined set of cryptographic information. Also at least one embodiment of the invention includes deriving an encryption key based on said input cryptographic information entered via the computing device interface.

The techniques depicted in can also include determining a pattern associated with input via the computing device interface in connection with the one or more interface input behavior metrics over multiple iterations of said processing step to establish one or more updated interface input behavior metrics associated with the one or more input elements. Additionally at least one embodiment of the invention can further include updating the pre determined set of cryptographic information based on the one or more updated interface input behavior metrics.

Additionally the techniques depicted in can include converting the one or more input elements to a second version of the one or more input elements for granting access to the protected resource associated with the computing device wherein said converting comprises mapping the one or more input elements to a unique user via a mapping table so as to identify a version of the one or more input elements for granting access to the protected resource associated with the computing device.

Step includes displaying the multiple generated input elements via an interface of the computing device. Step includes determining one or more input modality parameters associated with the multiple generated input elements. Determining the one or more input modality parameters can include prompting a user to select one or more input modality parameters. Step includes generating a prompt via the computing device interface.

Step includes processing input cryptographic information entered via the computing device interface in response to the prompt against the multiple generated input elements and the one or more input modality parameters. Step additionally includes step which includes establishing the multiple generated input elements and the one or more input modality parameters as a pre determined set of cryptographic information to be used in connection with an authentication request to access a protected resource associated with the computing device if the input cryptographic information matches the multiple generated input elements and the one or more input modality parameters.

Cryptographic techniques of the type described herein may be implemented in a wide variety of different applications. An additional exemplary communication system application that may incorporate such techniques will now be described with reference to which includes a communication system comprising a plurality of mobile telephones and and computers and configured to communicate with one another over a network .

Any two or more of the devices and may correspond to computing devices configured to implement at least one embodiment of the invention as previously described. It is to be appreciated that the techniques disclosed herein can be implemented in numerous other applications.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It is to be appreciated that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As further described herein such computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. Accordingly as further detailed below at least one embodiment of the invention includes an article of manufacture tangibly embodying computer readable instructions which when implemented cause a computer to carry out techniques described herein.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module component segment or portion of code which comprises at least one executable instruction for implementing the specified logical function s . It should be noted that the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures.

Accordingly the techniques described herein can include providing a system wherein the system includes distinct software modules each being embodied on a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium for example all modules embodied on the same medium or each modules embodied on a different medium . The modules can run for example on a hardware processor and the techniques detailed herein can be carried out using the distinct software modules of the system executing on a hardware processor.

Additionally the techniques detailed herein can also be implemented via a computer program product that includes computer useable program code stored in a computer readable storage medium in a data processing system wherein the computer useable program code was downloaded over a network from a remote data processing system. The computer program product can also include for example computer useable program code that is stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system wherein the computer useable program code is downloaded over a network to a remote data processing system for use in a computer readable storage medium with the remote system.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a module or system. 

An aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and operative to perform the techniques detailed herein. Also as described herein aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

By way of example an aspect of the present invention can make use of software running on a general purpose computer. For instance is a system diagram of an exemplary computer system on which at least one embodiment of the invention can be implemented. As depicted in an example implementation employs for example a processor a memory and an input output interface formed for example by a display and a keyboard . The term processor as used herein includes any processing device s such as for example one that includes a central processing unit CPU and or other forms of processing circuitry. Additionally the processor as shown may be viewed as representing for example CSCD security token generator authentication servers and protected resource . The term memory includes memory associated with a processor or CPU such as for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a fixed memory device for example a hard drive a removable memory device for example a diskette a flash memory etc. Further the phrase input output interface as used herein includes a mechanism for inputting data to the processing unit for example a mouse touch screen etc. and a mechanism for providing results associated with the processing unit for example a printer .

The processor memory and input output interface such as display and keyboard can be interconnected for example via bus as part of a data processing unit . Suitable interconnections via bus can also be provided to an input interface such as a touch screen a network interface such as a network card which can be provided to interface with a computer network and to a media interface such as a diskette or compact disc read only memory CD ROM drive which can be provided to interface with media .

Accordingly computer software including instructions or code for carrying out the techniques detailed herein can be stored in associated memory devices for example ROM fixed or removable memory and when ready to be utilized loaded in part or in whole for example into RAM and implemented by a CPU. Such software can include firmware resident software microcode etc.

As noted above a data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code includes at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus . The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual implementation of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during implementation. Also input output I O devices such as keyboards displays and pointing devices can be coupled to the system either directly such as via bus or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters such as network interface for example a modem a cable modem or an Ethernet card can also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks.

As used herein a server includes a physical data processing system such as system as depicted in running a server program. It will be understood that such a physical server may or may not include a display and keyboard.

As noted at least one embodiment of the invention can take the form of a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied thereon. As will be appreciated any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium can include a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Examples include an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk RAM ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM Flash memory an optical fiber a portable CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device and or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More generally a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Additionally a computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms such as for example electro magnetic optical or a suitable combination thereof. More generally a computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium can be transmitted using an appropriate medium such as for example wireless wireline optical fiber cable radio frequency RF and or a suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention can be written in any combination of at least one programming language including an object oriented programming language and conventional procedural programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on a user s computer partly on a user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on a users computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

In light of the above descriptions it should be understood that the components illustrated herein can be implemented in various forms of hardware software or combinations thereof for example application specific integrated circuit s ASICS functional circuitry an appropriately programmed general purpose digital computer with associated memory etc.

Terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. For example the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless clearly indicated otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising as used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of another feature integer step operation element component and or group thereof. Additionally the corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed.

Also it should again be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration only. Many variations and other alternative embodiments may be used. For example the techniques are applicable to a wide variety of other types of communication systems and computing devices that can benefit from additional entropy in key generation. Accordingly the particular illustrative configurations of system and device elements detailed herein can be varied in other embodiments. These and numerous other alternative embodiments within the scope of the appended claims will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

