---

title: System, method, circuit and associated software for locating and/or uploading data objects
abstract: The present invention includes methods, circuits, systems and corresponding executable code for locating and managing data files/objects such as image files, audio files, etc. According to some embodiments of the present invention, there may be provided a Dynamic Search and Linking Module (DSLM), which DSLM may be functionally associated with an Uploader (an application or module adapted to upload files) of an application or of an operating system. The DSLM may provide an Uploader with search engine querying (e.g. web searching) and search engine result (e.g results of a web search) linking functionality.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104763&OS=09104763&RS=09104763
owner: 
number: 09104763
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20131103
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 281 537 titled A System Method Circuit and Associated Software for Locating and or Uploading Data Objects filed in the USPTO on Oct. 26 2011 by the inventors of the present application 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 281 537 claims in turn priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 530 010 titled A System Method Circuit and Associated Software for Locating and or Uploading Data Objects filed in the USPTO on Sep. 1 2011 by the inventors of the present application 

all of the aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to the field of file management. More specifically the present invention relates to systems methods circuits and associated software for locating and or uploading data objects.

As new smart devices such as the iPad and iPhone are becoming more common more applications are being introduced. While the simple user interface attracts more users it also raises many challenges to developers. New smart devices mask the file system away from the users and many ordinary actions done in a file oriented system are not feasible. One example would be how would one upload an attachment to an email when one cannot select a file Or how would one download a data object from an exterior source and then upload it to a running application 

The present invention includes methods circuits systems and corresponding executable code for managing data files objects such as image files audio files etc. According to some embodiments of the present invention there may be provided a Dynamic Search and Linking Module DSLM functionally associated with an Uploader an application or module adapted to upload files of an application and or of an operating system. The DSLM may provide an Uploader with search engine querying such as a web search and search engine result such as the results of a web search linking functionality. The DSLM may be instanced or may otherwise become visible to a user when an Uploader or other application prompts a user to enter a file selection or data object to be uploaded and or upon user activation. The DSLM may thereafter provide the user with options to respond to the Uploader file object selection prompt request with 1 a search engine query which may allow the user to enter query terms and or 2 a search engine result selection such that a selected search engine result may be dynamically linked as the input to the file object selection prompt field pointer or other designator used by the Uploader to designate a file object location to upload.

According to some embodiments of the present invention when a File System data repository Explorer browser is called upon by an Uploader of an application or of an operating system and or when a user of an operating system desires to upload a file or data object the DSLM may be instanced automatically or by the user and may either augment the functionality e.g. as a plug in of a File System data repository Explorer browser or may replace the File System data repository Explorer browser when the explorer browser is called upon by an application web form or user requesting a user selection of a file or data object e.g. for uploading .

According to some embodiments of the present invention the DSLM may include or be functionally associated with a Search Engine Interface Module SEIM adapted to communicate with one or more Application Programming Interfaces API s of search engines e.g. Google and or similar devices. The DSLM through the SEIM may be adapted to forward to the search engine one or more file data object related search query terms e.g. picture of a clown or a picture of tree provided by a user. The DSLM may be further adapted to add or modify search criteria sent based on the purpose of the search i.e. if the field to be filled out requires a logo the DSLM may add the term Logo to the search criteria . Search results generated by the search engine may be received by the DSLM through the SEIM and may be provided to a user through an interface screen which allows the user to select one of the search engine results for uploading.

According to some embodiments of the present invention once a file or data object from the search results has been selected by a user a DSLM may provide an Uploader with a direct link to the selected file or data object residing on a remote server. According to further embodiments of the present invention data associated with a selected file or data object from a remote server may be downloaded to a local buffer or associated data storage and the Uploader may be provided with a link or pointer to the locally buffered stored data. According to yet further embodiments a DSLM may be included in an Uploader such that the file data object may be directly uploaded to the target destination upon selection by the user.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

It should be understood that the accompanying drawings are presented solely to elucidate the following detailed description are therefore exemplary in nature and do not include all the possible permutations of the present invention.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical such as electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The term server may refer to a single server or to a functionally associated cluster of servers.

Embodiments of the present invention may include apparatuses for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to memory cards for example SD card SIM cards any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs electrically programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and programmable read only memories EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and capable of being coupled to a computer system bus.

The processes and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer communication device or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language or markup language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages or techniques may be used to implement the teachings of the inventions as described herein.

It should be understood that any topology technology and or standard for computer networking e.g. mesh networks infiniband connections RDMA etc. known today or to be devised in the future may be applicable to the present invention.

The present invention includes methods circuits systems and corresponding executable code for locating and managing data files objects such as image files audio files etc. According to some embodiments of the present invention there may be provided a Dynamic Search and Linking Module DSLM which DSLM may be functionally associated with an Uploader an application or module adapted to upload files of an application including locally running applications and or remotely running applications or of an operating system. The DSLM may provide an Uploader with search engine querying e.g. web searching and search engine result e.g results of a web search linking functionality. The DSLM may be automatically instanced or may otherwise become visible when an Uploader prompts a user for a file selection. The DSLM may thereafter provide the user with options to respond to the Uploader file selection prompt request with 1 a search engine query and or 2 a search engine result selection such that a selected search engine result is dynamically linked as the input to the file selection prompt field pointer or other designator used by the Uploader to designate a file location to upload.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a DSLM may be installed or otherwise functionally associated with a File System data repository Explorer browser or other computational platform file managing locating system hereinafter collectively referred to as a CB examples of CB s may further include iPad applications Android iPhone other SmartPhone applications standard PC websites mobile web sites and HTML 5 and the DSLM may either directly or through the CB be functionally associated with a graphic user interface GUI of any type known today or to be devised in the future. The DSLM may remain inactive or otherwise operating in the background until either 1 a user instances the DSLM and or 2 the DSLM is automatically instanced by the CB. The CB or user may instance the DSLM whenever there is a need to upload a file or data object to a remote server and or a running application e.g. when a user fillable field in a form requires a file or data object such as a profile picture hereinafter the remote server or application requiring the upload of a file or data object will collectively be referred to as the Destination server wherein destination server should be understood to include a locally running application requesting the upload of a file or data object and or a remote server requesting such an upload . When instanced the DSLM may either augment the functionality e.g. as a plug in of a CB may replace the CB and or may operate in parallel to the CB when called by an application or web form requesting user selection of a file e.g. for uploading .

According to some embodiments of the present invention when a DSLM is instanced it may prompt the user via the GUI to enter one or more search query terms or other indications characterizations of the file or data object the user desires to upload.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the DSLM may include or be functionally associated with a Search Engine Interface Module SEIM adapted to communicate with an API of a search engine e.g. Google and or with an internal search engine ISE adapted to search the internal memory of the computational platform the DSLM is operating in and or any other data repository. The DSLM may forward to the SEIM and or ISE the inputted search query terms or other indications characterizations of the file or data object the user desires to upload. According to further embodiments of the present invention a DSLM may be further adapted to automatically add and or modify search criteria based on 1 the purpose for which the file data object is needed i.e. if the field to be filled out requires a logo the DSLM may add the term Logo to the search criteria 2 user preferences e.g. a user may prefer files from certain sources or of a minimum quality etc. 3 regional characteristics e.g. language 4 specific requirements of the application or server to which the file data object is being uploaded e.g. a specific field may allow only pdf files and or 5 any other related criteria.

According to further embodiments of the present invention a SEIM when receiving search query terms or other indications characterizations of a file or data object may forward these terms or indications to one or more search engines via the appropriate API s and receive from the Search Engines search results in one or more formats e.g. lists images thumbnails etc. . These search results may then be forwarded to the DSLM or displayed directly to the user. Similarly an ISE when receiving search query terms or other indications characterizations of a file or data object may perform a search of the internal memory of the computational platform the DSLM is operating in and or any other data repository it is associated with to locate files and or data objects related to the search query. The ISE may also forward the results of its search to the DSLM or directly to the user in one or more formats.

A DSLM receiving search results from a SEIM and or an ISE may display the results i.e. indications of the content of data objects included in the results to the user upon the GUI in any appropriate format e.g. lists images thumbnails etc. and may prompt the user to select one or more of the results. According to some further embodiments of the present invention the DSLM may be adapted to allow a user to select the format on which he she desires to see the search results. According to yet further embodiments of the present invention a DSLM may automatically select formats in which to present results based on a user history or preference e.g. if a user consistently selects black and white images the DSLM may sort images accordingly .

According to some embodiments the DSLM may be further adapted to provide a user with an option to refine and or modify his her search criteria and to update the results accordingly.

According to some embodiments of the present invention once a user has selected a file or data object to be uploaded from the displayed search results the DSLM may directly or via the SEIM download the selected file or data object from the source server data repository i.e. retrieve the selected file or data object from its source and store the file or data object on a local data storage buffer . According to some embodiments the local data storage buffer may not actually physically reside on the same computational platform rather on an exterior server functionally associated possibly via a distributed data network with the DSLM. Once the file or data object has been stored on a buffer the DSLM may forward a pointer or other indicator to the uploader indicating the location of the file or data object on the buffer and further instruct the uploader to upload the indicated file or data object to the destination server. Accordingly the Uploader may retrieve the file or data object from the buffer and upload it to the destination server.

According to further embodiments of the present invention in place of retrieving the file or data object from the source and storing it on a buffer the DSLM may forward to the uploader a link or pointer e.g. web pointer to the source location of the file or data object and instruct the uploader to upload the file or data object directly from the source to the destination server. Accordingly once instructed the uploader may retrieve the file or data object from the source and upload it directly to the destination server. According to yet further embodiments of the present invention when dealing with a destination server which allows the uploading of a link or pointer to a file or data object in place of the file or data object itself the DSLM may forward to the uploader the pointer or link to the file and instruct it to upload the pointer or link to the destination server. Accordingly the uploader may upload the pointer or link to the destination server such that the destination server may upload the file or data object directly from the source.

It should be understood by one of skill in the art that some of the functions described as being performed by a specific component of the system may be performed by a different component of the system in other embodiments of this invention.

The present invention can be practiced by employing conventional tools methodology and components. Accordingly the details of such tools component and methodology are not set forth herein in detail. In the previous descriptions numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it should be recognized that the present invention might be practiced without resorting to the details specifically set forth.

In the description and claims of embodiments of the present invention each of the words comprise include and have and forms thereof are not necessarily limited to members in a list with which the words may be associated.

Only exemplary embodiments of the present invention and but a few examples of its versatility are shown and described in the present disclosure. It is to be understood that the present invention is capable of use in various other combinations and environments and is capable of changes or modifications within the scope of the inventive concept as expressed herein.

While certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

Following are descriptions of an exemplary flow and an exemplary code according to some specific exemplary implementations of the present invention. These following specific exemplary embodiments of the present invention are presented to further clarify the present invention and the possible implementations of its principles and as such should not be understood to encompass the full scope of the present invention in any way. It should be clear to anyone of ordinary skill in the art that many other implementations of the present invention are possible.

Exemplary basic flow following is an exemplary flow of an exemplary method in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

