---

title: Methods and apparatus that support display and use of a program guide based on time spent by a user dwelling on a channel
abstract: Methods and apparatus for improving channel browsing experience for users by presenting an automatically appearing and automatically scrolling program guide are described. The methods and apparatus are well suited for use with remote control devices with limited numbers of input buttons, e.g., under five buttons, but can be used with remote controls with more buttons. The program guide can be used to allow access to a grid guide to users of hospital remotes or other remotes with limited input keys, e.g., an up down arrow and/or a power button. The method in some embodiments uses time spent on a channel in combination with user selection of an input key to determine an action to be taken, e.g., enter or display the program grid guide and/or select a channel and/or corresponding program being displayed in the grid guide.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510056&OS=09510056&RS=09510056
owner: TIME WARNER CABLE ENTERPRISES LLC
number: 09510056
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131127
---
The present invention relates to methods and apparatus for easy access and browsing of programs and channel listings for users and more particularly to methods and apparatus for providing an automatically appearing program guide that allows a user to automatically scroll through the program guide listings.

In conventional systems customer devices such as set top boxes and or other devices are often controlled through the use of remote controls with a relatively large number of keys. Remote controls commonly used often include a full set of number keys 0 through 9 up and down channel keys up and down volume buttons and a power button among others. Such remote controls and their many keys allow users to easily access scroll though and select programs channels on grid program guides with a guide or other dedicated key on the remote often being used to gain access to the grid guide.

While remote controls with large numbers of keys work well for most individuals they can be difficult for some individuals. For example individuals with physical disabilities eye sight limitations and or other limitations may find it difficult to distinguish between different buttons and or reliably press individual buttons on a remote control with a large number of buttons. For this reason hospitals rehabilitation centers and or other locations where handicapped or physically impaired individual may be located often use relatively simple remote controls making it easy for an individual using such a remote control to access and use advanced control functions such as a grid program guide to select program channels and or individual programs to watch.

In the cases of the simplest remote control a user may be limited to up and down arrows for changing channels with another button for calling for help and possibly a button for powering the display device on and off. With such basic remotes it has proven difficult to provide users meaningful access to grid based program guides and or to allow the users to select program channels and or programs from such guides. Sadly this often reduces a user of such a remote to hopping from channel to channel while the channel is displayed in the hope of finding something to watch. Where a large number of channels are supported this may be frustrating in that the user may not want to flip through all the channels in an attempt to find something of interest particularly in cases where it may take the user a few seconds of viewing to try and figure out what program is being displayed on a channel.

As should be appreciated a hospital user normally does not have the ability to select what type of remote control he she would like and the hospitals often provide bed side remote controls with very limited functionality so that even the most handicapped of patients can use the remote control to control a set top box used to provide television programming and or other video to the user.

In view of the above discussion is should be appreciated that there is a need for methods and or apparatus which could improve the experience provided to a user of a remote control with a relatively limited number of buttons. In particular it would be desirable if methods and or apparatus could be developed which would allow a user of a remote control with relatively few keys to access a grid based program guides and select content listed in such a guide. While it is desirable that the new methods and apparatus be suitable for use with remote controls with relatively few keys it would be desirable if at least some of the same methods and or apparatus could be used with remote controls having a relatively large number of keys e.g. more than 12 keys as well thereby allowing users of more advanced remotes to use the same type of interface as users of less complicated remotes should they choose to do so.

In view of the above there is a need for improved methods and or apparatus that allow users to easily access and scroll through program channel listings and or other available programming information e.g. using a remote control with relatively few buttons.

Methods and apparatus for providing a program guide interface that is well suited for remote control devices with relatively few keys e.g. less than 10 keys are described. The interface and guide related methods and apparatus provide access to e.g. channel listings and program information by taking into consideration the time a user stays on a program channel in combination with input from one or more input keys e.g. up and or down arrow keys. Various features of the embodiments described herein allow a user of a remote control to interact with a program guide e.g. a grid program guide. In some embodiments as few as two input keys are used to control interaction with the guide and to make program channel and or program selections. The methods and apparatus are particularly well suited for use with remote controls such as those in hospitals where the control buttons for controlling a television may be limited to an up and down arrow in addition to a power button for powering a televisions on and or off. As will be discussed below two buttons e.g. up and down control buttons of a remote in some embodiments are used in combination with time e.g. between button selections to control and interact with a program guide. The program guide in some embodiments is a grid guide.

In various embodiments after a television TV is powered on a user may switch between channels which are displayed on the TV using the up and down arrows to move from channel to channel as the program is being displayed. After dwelling on a channel for at least a predetermined time where a dwell is a period of time during which a user remains on a program channel without pressing a channel change button e.g. up and or down channel button upon making a channel up or down selection a user is presented with a program guide. In at least some embodiments the program guide is a grid guide with the channel that was being presented at the time the channel change button was pressed being presented in the center of the displayed grid. In at least one embodiment the program guide automatically scrolls to present program listings corresponding to the channels in the direction of the channel change button that was pressed. For example pressing a channel up option after a predetermined dwell on a channel being viewed would trigger presentation of the grid guide with the current channel be presented at the center of the grid guide. Absent the user pressing a channel change button the guide will automatically scroll with a highlighted program channel e.g. a program channel displayed in the center of the guide changing as the scroll operation proceeds. In response to the system e.g. STB or TV detecting user selection of a channel change button while the program guide is displayed the highlighted program channel is selected and presented to the user in place of the grid guide. To return to the grid guide the user need to simply wait for the predetermined time without changing channels and the grid guide will again be presented to the user with the program channel being presented as the highlight program corresponding to the one that was being viewed at the time the user entered the program guide.

The scroll rate and or dwell time used as part of the grid interface may be configured by a system administrator cable network headend or even the user in some embodiments.

While the program guide interface is well suited for use with remote controls with limited buttons it can also be used with remote controls with more buttons. For example some remotes may include a program guide button in addition to up and down arrow buttons. In one such embodiment pressing of the program guide button triggers entry into the program guide. Initially pressing of the up or down button once within the guide triggers scrolling through channels in the number order indicated by the up down arrow key e.g. selection of the up arrow triggers scrolling in the up channel number direction with higher number channels being presented as part of the scroll operation and pressing of the down channel key being used to cause lower number channels to be sequentially presented as part of a scroll operation.

While dwell time and scroll rate may be set by a system administrator cable network headend or user in some embodiments one or more control parameters are dynamically varied based on the results of monitoring the user s use of the remote control. For example in some embodiments the sequence of control keys selected by a user is monitored and one or more parameters is altered based on the detected key sequence. For example in one embodiment if the set top box or other device implementing the method detects user selection of an arrow corresponding to the direction opposite the direction used to enter the program guide the dwell time required to trigger reentry to the program guide is reduced for the time interval following the selection of the opposite arrow key. Thus a user who wants to scroll through the program guide in the opposite direction can quickly re enter the program guide and scroll in the opposite direction by pressing the key in the desired scroll direction without having to wait the normal dwell time before being able to re enter the program guide using the key for scrolling in the opposite direction than was last used to enter the program guide. The reduced dwell time is used for the period immediately following selection of the arrow key opposite that used to previously enter the program guide but the normal dwell time is used to control entry into the program guide.

In some embodiments how quickly a user flips between channels as part of a channel surfing operation outside of the program guide is monitored and the scroll rate used to control the scrolling during guide presentation rate is determined at least partially based on the rate between channel change selections made by the user. Other user behavior may be monitored and used in determining or adjusting the scroll rate dwell time and or other interface settings.

In at least one embodiment an exemplary method of operating a user device comprises monitoring a dwell time on a channel determining in said user device if the dwell time exceeds a predetermined dwell time threshold used to enable program guide presentation and automatically displaying a program guide in response to a user channel change selection when the dwell time exceeds the predetermined dwell time threshold.

Various additional features and advantages of the present invention are discussed in the detailed description which follows.

Each regional service provider system e.g. region 1 network headend region N network headend provides services e.g. content delivery services via communications network to a corresponding set of user devices at customer locations which correspond to the region serviced by the particular headed system. For example region 1 network headend provides services to the M customer locations corresponding to Region 1 while Region N network headend provides services to region N customer locations 1 through N . As should be appreciated the number of customer locations M and N respectively will vary depending on the particular region and the number of customer locations in the individual region. The customer location may be e.g. customer premise such as customer s home or another place where the customer is using a user device such as a set top box to receive the services e.g. to view TV programming content. Such places may include hospitals hotels restaurants offices etc. In some embodiments the communications network is e.g. a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC network satellite network and or internet. In various embodiments the content e.g. multimedia content is delivered from the headends over the communications network to one or more devices at the customer locations.

Each of the regional service provider systems such as network headend may be implemented at a cable network office or hubsite serving a plurality of customer locations and includes multiple servers and databases which are coupled together as shown. Region 1 network headend includes a server storage system a region 1 customer database and a business management BM server which in turn is coupled to a BMS business management system database . The customer database is used to store customer account information e.g. customer name address customer device e.g. STB identification information customer device capability information and information about customer subscribed services. The business management server database coupled to business management BM server includes customer billing information. As should be appreciated the BMS database may be and in some embodiments is integrated with the customer database . It should be appreciated that some of the servers and or elements shown to be included in the headend may reside outside the headend in some embodiments and may be located anywhere in the system e.g. in a distributed manner. In the example various servers and other elements included in the headend are coupled together by a local network .

The server storage system includes a content server e.g. a broadcast file server BFS and or an on demand content server a switched digital video SDV server and a network storage device which are coupled together as shown. Network storage device stores programming content e.g. audio and video content which may be delivered either as part of a content broadcast by server and or by the SDV server in response to a user request for content received via network from one or more devices at customer locations . The various servers present in the network headend are coupled together via a bus over which they may interchange data and information and which can be used to supply content to the communications network for delivery to various user devices such as STB .

The broadcast file server BFS among other things is responsible for delivering e.g. broadcasting content including program content and or other information to one or more customer devices e.g. set top boxes which support receiving content by tuning to e.g. QAM broadcast stream broadcast by the server . The switched digital video SDV content server provides content and or other information to one or more customer devices which support receiving SDV content. In various embodiments the content servers access the programming content from the storage device and generate transport streams suitable for delivery to various customer devices via the communications network .

As shown in region 1 customer location 1 is coupled to region 1 network headend via communications network which can and in some embodiments is implemented as a cable network. Communications link traversing the communications network couples customer device to the region 1 network headend s bus . Similarly devices at region 1 customer location m are coupled to region 1 network headend bus via link .

Region N customer location 1 is coupled to region N network headend via a communications link . Similarly region N customer location n is coupled to region N network headend via a communications link . The network headends of the different regions are coupled together e.g. via link which may be over a back haul fiber optic network used to connect headend offices . Network storage device includes programming content including e.g. movies content of regional favorites content of seasonal favorites etc. which can the delivered to the customer devices located at the customer locations . The delivery of video and or other content may and normally is through servers and . Network storage device also includes program guide information and broadcast information . The program guide information provides channel guide information. This information is communicated to the customer devices and can be used for generating a program guide displayed to a user. The program guide information is shown as being stored in network storage device but may and in some embodiments is stored in memory within the servers and communicated to the customer devices e.g. STBs via communications network . In accordance with one aspect in some embodiments the program guide information includes information and or applications that allow a customer device e.g. STB to generate automatic program guides e.g. auto appearing and auto scrolling guides. Such information and or applications may be and in some embodiment is communicated to one or more devices periodically. However in some embodiments the information is not communicated periodically to all the customer devices in the region 1 but rather upon a request from one or more devices e.g. STBs.

As will be discussed in accordance with one feature of some embodiments the program guide information is used by a customer device to generate an automatic program guide to present to the user customer.

Business management server generates and processes billing information corresponding to region 1 customers e.g. processing bill payment information processing discount and or coupon information updating billing charge information in response to upgrades video on demand purchases and or other activity.

Referring now to the customer side of system . Each customer location in a region may include a plurality of customer premise equipments CPEs . In various embodiments the CPEs located at the customer locations include e.g. modems routers and user devices including e.g. set top box internet capable TVs personal computers laptops tablet devices smart phones etc. In various embodiments a user device such as a set top box presents the program content to a viewer e.g. customer subscriber. shows some details of customer location . Other customer locations may be similar to the customer location and may include same or similar CPEs.

As shown region 1 customer location 1 includes a first set of equipments including e.g. a set top box STB in combination with display and a remote control . STB is shown coupled to display which may and in some embodiments is a television set. However it should be appreciated that the STB can be integrated in a device which also includes the display . The STB may and often does include Digital Video Recorder DVR functionality program guide modification and presentation capabilities. In some embodiments the remote control is a limited functionality remote control with limited number of buttons e.g. 2 4 buttons. In some embodiments the remote control is a fully functionality standard remote control device with all the standard buttons keys normally provided in standard remote controls.

One exemplary embodiment will now be described with reference to . which comprises the combination of is a flowchart illustrating the steps of an exemplary method of operating a user device in accordance with the invention. The method of flowchart can be and in some embodiments is performed by a user device such as a set top box e.g. STB of . The exemplary method starts in step where the user device is powered on and initialized. Operation proceeds from step to step which is optional and is performed in some embodiments. In step a channel dwell time threshold is set to a predetermined channel dwell time threshold e.g. a first channel dwell time threshold. In some embodiments the predetermined dwell time threshold is set prior to use by one of a system administrator cable network headend operator or user. Channel dwell time is a time a viewer dwells on a displayed channel without making any channel change selections. Thus the channel dwell time is the time elapsed on any displayed channel to which the user device is tuned from the time displaying of the channel started without any channel change input signal being received by the user device e.g. from a user remote control. As discussed below the channel dwell time spent on a displayed channel is used in accordance with one feature of the invention in determining if an automatic e.g. auto appearing and auto scrolling program guide is to be automatically displayed. In some embodiments when step is not performed the user device e.g. STB uses a default predetermined channel dwell time threshold which is preconfigured.

For discussion purposes consider that the user customer has enabled automatic program guide display. In some embodiments the automatic program guide display is enabled by default however the user may disable this feature. In accordance with one aspect when automatic program guide display is enabled the user device automatically displays the automatic program guide upon the user s selection of channel up down button provided that channel dwell time exceeds the channel dwell time threshold in use e.g. the user has dwelled on a program channel for equal to or greater than a predetermined channel dwell time threshold. In various embodiments the customer device receives and processes the program guide information e.g. from a server located at a network headend or another device which provides program guide information either on a regular basis and or on request. The program guide information is used in various embodiments to generate a program guide for presentation to the user.

Operation proceeds from step to steps and which may be performed asynchronously in parallel. Step is performed while the user device is tuned to a channel which is displayed to the user e.g. on TV. In step a channel dwell time on the displayed channel is monitored. The user device tracks the time for which the user dwells on the displayed channel. The displayed channel may be the last channel viewed by the user e.g. prior to the user device being turned on in step or it could be a channel displayed in response to user s selection. Regardless of how the channel was selected or which channel is being displayed the channel dwell time is monitored staring from the time the channel starts displaying. The monitoring step is performed on an ongoing basis e.g. with the monitoring operation restarting every time a different channel is displayed to the user. In various embodiments the monitored dwell time is provided an input indicated by the broken arrow to step discussed below.

In step which is performed independently in parallel with step the user device monitors for user input signal e.g. from a remote control. In some embodiments as part of step sub step is performed wherein the user device monitors the time between user selection of channel change buttons e.g. channel up down buttons. For example in some embodiments the user device monitors time between receipt of signals indicating a channel change from the user. As part of sub step in some embodiments it is monitored how quickly a user flips between channels as part of channel surfing outside of the program guide e.g. when program guide is not displayed. The user may and often does perform channel change using buttons on the remote control remote however channel change selection can also be made using buttons on the user device e.g. STB or buttons on the TV.

Operation proceeds from step to one of steps and depending on the type of user input received by the user device. Also steps through which are shown using broken dashed line boxes are optional. These optional steps are performed in some embodiments where a user of the user device implementing the method uses a full functionality remote control device. The other steps which are not shown in broken line boxes are performed in most embodiments where the user device is being controlled using a limited functionality limited button key remote control in accordance with the invention.

In step a user input signal indicating a channel change selection is received e.g. from a remote control device. The channel change selection may be and in some embodiments is a channel change selection caused by pressing of an up down button on the remote control. Thus in some embodiments the user device receives control signals e.g. user input signals from the remote control. In some embodiments the remote control device does not include number keys for controlling program channel selections. In some embodiments remote control device includes only up and down arrow buttons for controlling program channel selections. Operation proceeds from step to step . In step it is determined if the channel dwell time for which the user stayed on the displayed channel exceeds or equals a channel dwell time threshold in use. The channel dwell time threshold in use may be the default threshold value or the value set as the first channel dwell time threshold in step or may be a different threshold value depending on whether any temporary reductions changes were made to the first channel dwell time threshold as discussed later in detail. The channel dwell time is received as an input from step . The user device compares the channel dwell time for which the user dwelled on the displayed channel to the channel dwell time threshold in use. If in step it is determined that the user has not dwelled on the displayed channel for greater than or equal to the channel dwell time threshold in use the operation proceeds from step to step . In step the user device changes the displayed channel to the next channel in the program channel lineup based on the received user input signal step e.g. by tuning to the next channel and outputting. For example if the user received input signal in step was caused by a channel up button on the remote control the user device changes to the next higher numbered channel. Operation proceeds from step to step .

If in step it is determined that the channel dwell time is greater than or equal to the channel dwell time threshold in use the operation proceeds from step to step via connecting node A which is discussed later. The operation also proceeds from step to step as shown in .

Returning to step . In step it is determined if current channel dwell time threshold in use is less than the first channel dwell time threshold or the default channel dwell time threshold. If it is determined that the current channel dwell time threshold in use is less than the first channel dwell time threshold or the default channel dwell time threshold the operation proceeds to step otherwise the operation proceeds to step in which the user device continues using the channel dwell time threshold in use. In step the channel dwell time threshold in use is reset to the first channel dwell time threshold or the default channel dwell time threshold.

Referring now to the processing path including the optional steps and . Such steps are performed in some embodiments where a comprehensive e.g. full key remote control is used to control the user device performing the method. For these steps it is considered that the automatic program guide display is not enabled initially and rather the user will be provided an opportunity to either view automatic program guide or a non automatic program guide. In step a user input signal indicating a user request for program guide presentation is received. For example in the full functionality full key button remote control embodiments this occurs when a user presses a program guide button on the remote control. Operation proceeds from step to step wherein upon receiving the program guide request the user device presents a prompt on the display device to the user providing an option to view a first guide e.g. an automatic program guide in place of the program guide that the user may have been normally viewing. The prompt in some embodiments also includes descriptive information for first timers to learn that the automatic program guide includes the feature of automatic scrolling through program listings in addition to automatically appearing upon the user s selection of channel up down button while the automatic program guide is displayed provided that channel dwell time conditions in accordance with the invention discussed above are satisfied.

Operation proceeds from step to step . In step the user device determines if the user wants to view the first e.g. automatic program guide based on user s response to the presented prompt. If the user response indicates that the user does not wish to view the first program guide the operation proceeds from step to step . In step a second e.g. non automatic program guide is presented to the user on the display device e.g. TV. If in step it is determined that the user wants to view the automatic program guide the operation proceeds from step to step via connecting node A . Furthermore when it is determined that the user wants to view the automatic program guide the user may also be given an option to enable automatic program guide display for future so that when in future the program guide button on the remote control is selected the user device will present the automatic program guide without prompting the user to choose between different available program guides and waiting for user s response as done in steps and .

Returning to step . In step a user input indicating a request to change device settings is received. In some embodiments where the user device is controlled by a full functionality remote control the device settings can be accessed by using e.g. MENU or SETTINGS button provided on the full functionality remote controls. In some embodiments the device settings can be accessed by pressing the MENU button on the remote and then selecting device settings from the items listed in the menu subsequently displayed to the user. In some embodiments the user is provided an option to change one or more default settings on the user device according to user s preference. Such settings include settings for the automatic program guide. Operation proceeds from step to step where the operation proceeds to start device configuration settings modification subroutine which is illustrated in and discussed later in more detail.

Referring now to step illustrated in . In step the user device automatically display the first e.g. automatic program guide e.g. based on the user input received in step and the determinations performed in step or the user input received in step and determinations performed in step . An exemplary first e.g. automatic program guide is illustrated in . In some embodiments the automatic program guide is in a grid format and includes program channel listing and information corresponding to e.g. 5 channels and a 2 hour time window as shown in . In various embodiments the automatic program guide is displayed in the current context of the channel lineup. For example if a user selection of up down button on the remote control caused automatic display of the program guide the automatic program guide is presented such that the channel and program information corresponding to the channel that was being displayed when channel change selection was made is displayed in the center and the information corresponding to next few e.g. 2 channels in the channel lineup being displayed above and below the current channel in the center. This can be appreciated from the program guide illustrated in discussed later.

In some embodiments as part of step step is performed. In step a portion of the displayed program guide including a program channel is highlighted the highlighted portion distinguishes the highlighted program channel from the other entries in the program guide. In some embodiments the highlighted portion of the displayed program guide is located at the center of the program guide.

Operation proceeds from step to step . In step the user device controls automatic scrolling through the program channel listing while displaying the first program guide. In some embodiments sub steps and are performed as part of step . In step the user device controls the displayed program guide to change program channel information so that the program channel in the highlighted portion of the displayed first program guide changes e.g. as scrolling occurs. Thus it should be appreciated that as automatic scrolling occurs the program channel information in the highlighted portion changes. In some embodiments the focus of the guide is on the current program channel which is highlighted. In some embodiments the focal point stays fixed centered and highlighted with the elements e.g. program channel listings scrolling into the focal point. In some embodiments how quickly a user flips between channels as part of channel surfing outside of the program guide is monitored e.g. as part of sub step and the scroll rate used to control automatic scrolling during presentation of the first program guide is determined at least partially based on the rate between channel change selections made by the user. In some embodiments other user behavior may be monitored and used in determining or adjusting the scroll rate dwell time and or other interface settings.

Depending on what input signal triggered the automatic display of the first program guide one of steps or is performed. In sub step program channel information is sequentially displayed in the highlighted portion of the displayed program guide corresponding to higher number channels when a channel up change selection e.g. pressing of a channel up button on the remote control triggers the automatic display of the program guide. For example if the selection e.g. pressing on the remote control of a channel up button caused the automatic display of the program guide automatic scrolling will occur in the downward direction of higher number channels and thus higher number channels are sequentially displayed in the highlighted portion of the guide as automatic scrolling occurs. In step program channel information is sequentially displayed in the highlighted portion of the displayed program guide corresponding to lower number channels when a channel down change selection e.g. pressing of a channel down button on the remote control triggers the automatic display of the program guide. Thus in this case lower number channels are sequentially displayed in the highlighted portion as the auto scrolling occurs.

Operation proceeds from step to step . In step a user input signal indicating user channel change selection is received by the user device while the first program guide is being displayed. The input signal indicating user channel change selection is e.g. a signal from the remote control when a user pressed up or down channel change button. Operation proceeds from step to step . In step the user device switches from outputting the first program guide which is being displayed to outputting the program channel which is in the highlighted portion of the automatic program guide at the given time.

Operation proceeds from step to step . In step it is determined if the user channel change selection e.g. pressing of up or down button on the remote control which triggered the outputting of the program channel in the highlighted portion in place of the automatic program guide is different from the user channel change selection e.g. pressing of up or down button which triggered the automatic display of the program guide earlier. For example the automatic display of the program guide may have been triggered by pressing of an up channel change button after the user dwelled on a program channel for dwell time threshold. The subsequent channel change selection by user while the automatic program guide is displayed that causes the highlighted channel to be displayed however may be the same e.g. channel up button or different e.g. channel down button. This difference in channel change selection inputs during the above discussed situations plays a role as to how the automatic program guide will function at least temporarily going forward e.g. by providing some insight of user intuition based on whether same or different channel change selections were detected by the user device.

In various embodiments the decision step is performed as part of step . If in step it is determined that the user channel change selection triggering the outputting of the program channel in the highlighted portion in place of the automatic program guide is different from the user channel change selection which triggered the automatic display of the program guide the decision step controls the operation to proceed from step to step otherwise if the user channel change selections are the same the operation proceeds to step .

In step the user device temporarily reduces the channel dwell time threshold used to enable first program guide presentation by temporarily changing the dwell time threshold from the first dwell time threshold to a second dwell time threshold the second dwell time threshold being shorter than the first dwell time threshold. For example if the first channel dwell time threshold in use was e.g. 60 seconds the user device may temporarily reduce it to e.g. 45 seconds in response to the determination performed in step . In some embodiments the temporary reduction in the dwell time threshold remains in effect until the temporary dwell time threshold is satisfied or the user makes a channel change selection prior to said temporary dwell time threshold being satisfied. As discussed with regard to steps and if the dwell time threshold in use is less than the first dwell time threshold that has been set e.g. indicating that the dwell time threshold in use is a reduced dwell time threshold the dwell time threshold in use is reset to the first channel dwell time threshold thereby limiting the time period for which the reduced dwell time threshold stays in effect. Operation proceeds from step back to step via connecting node B .

In step the user device refrains from changing or temporarily reducing the dwell time threshold. The operation proceeds from step back to step via connecting node B .

Operation proceeds from step to step . In step a prompt is presented to the user providing options to view and modify various device settings including program guide settings. In some embodiments various options for user selection are presented including e.g. first e.g. automatic program guide settings second non automatic program guide settings parental control settings automatic device power down settings etc. In various embodiments each selectable option provides an opportunity to the user to view and or modify corresponding settings.

Operation proceeds from step to step . In step an input signal indicating user selection of device setting to be modified from the presented options. Operation proceeds from step to step . In step the user device determines if the user selection indicates that the user wants to modify first program guide related settings e.g. based on the user selected option. If it is determined that the user selected option indicates that the user does not want to modify first program guide related settings but rather some other device setting the operation proceeds from step to step . In step the user device provides an option to the user e.g. on the display device to modify the user selected setting. Accordingly the user can proceed to modify the desired setting. Operation proceeds from step to step wherein the main menu settings menu screen is displayed.

If in step it is determined that the user selected option indicates that the user wants to modify first program guide related settings the operation proceeds from step to step . In step it is determined whether the user wants to modify channel dwell time settings e.g. by presenting a prompt such as DO YOU WISH TO CHANGE CHANNEL DWELL TIME SETTINGS to the user. Based on user s response if it is determined that the user wants to modify dwell time settings the operation proceeds from step to step . In step an option is provided to the user to increase or reduce the channel dwell time threshold. Operation proceeds from to step . In step the current channel dwell time threshold in use is changed to a new dwell time threshold based on the user input e.g. in response to the presented option allowing the user to increase or reduce the channel dwell time threshold. The dwell time threshold is updated to the new value and stored. Operation proceeds from step to step wherein the main menu settings menu screen is displayed.

If in step it is determined that the user does not want to modify channel dwell time settings e.g. user selects a NO option while responding to the option presented in step the operation proceeds from step to step . In step it is determined whether the user wants to modify scroll rate setting to change the automatic scrolling rate of the automatic program guide e.g. by presenting a prompt such as DO YOU WISH TO CHANGE AUTOMATIC SCROLL RATE SETTINGS to the user. Based on user s response if it is determined that the user wants to modify the scroll rate the operation proceeds from step to step . In step an option is provided to the user to increase or reduce the scroll rate. Operation proceeds from to step . In step the current scroll rate which is currently used to automatically scroll through program listings in the first program guide is changed e.g. increased or decreased based on the user input e.g. in response to the presented option allowing the user to increase or reduce the scroll rate. In some embodiments the scroll rate is incremented or reduced in predetermined step sizes. For example a graphical representation of step sizes is shown to the user in step and the user can choose to increase and decrease the scroll rate using up and down buttons on the remote control respectively. The scroll rate settings is updated to reflect the changes and stored. Operation proceeds from step to step wherein the main menu settings menu screen is displayed.

The program guide includes a plurality of rows and columns showing information regarding the programming content e.g. programs the name of the provider distributor e.g. channel network name and the corresponding scheduled on air time for various programs.

The top row shows the date field and an exemplary two hour time window with exemplary half hour time slots during which a program is available for viewing on a corresponding channel. The programs with duration of more than half hour span over more than one half hour time slot as illustrated in the figure e.g. extending beyond one half hour time slot. The time slots are identified by reference numbers and .

Column of the program guide shows channel number information for various channels listed in the program guide while column shows the name of various channels distribution networks. Each individual row in the plurality of rows through corresponds to a program channel. Row corresponds to channel number e.g. HGTVD and illustrates that a program show HOUSE HUNTERS is scheduled to be on air during the 11 00 11 30 time slot a program HOUSE HUNTERS INTERNATIONAL is scheduled to be on air during the 11 30 12 00 time slot a program AMAZING CHEF is scheduled to be on air during the 12 00 12 30 time slot and a program THE COOKING SHOW is scheduled to be on air during the 12 30 1 00 time slot.

Row corresponds to channel number e.g. A EHD channel and indicates the various programs that are or will be available on the corresponding channel during the different displayed time slots. Row corresponds to channel number e.g. HDT channel and indicates the various programs that are or will be available on channel during the different displayed time slots. Similarly rows and correspond to channel number e.g. STZW channel and channel number e.g. DSCHD channel respectively with each one indicating the programs that are or will be available on the respective channels during the different displayed time slots. Note that in the illustrated embodiment of row shows the highlighted portion of the automatic program guide including program channel e.g. HDT channel. In various embodiments a circle appears next to the highlighted channel number.

In some embodiments the highlighted portion of the guide stays fixed and when auto scrolling starts the information corresponding to a channel shown in a row scrolls into the highlighted portion and then moves out e.g. depending on the scrolling speed. In some embodiments the automatic program guide is displayed e.g. after being invoked by pressing of a channel up down button on the remote control following expiration of the channel dwell time. In some embodiments following the display of the automatic program guide the user device waits for a guide dwell time e.g. 15 seconds before starting automatic scrolling in the direction of entering the guide e.g. up or down. The guide dwell time is the time the user stays on the displayed guide without interacting e.g. pressing channel change selection button and is preconfigured. However the guide dwell time can be modified by the user. As discussed earlier in various embodiments the automatic scroll speed is also a configurable setting and can be changed as per user s desire. In accordance with one feature after the automatic scrolling starts and the user presses either up or down button on the remote control the user device tunes to the program channel in the highlighted portion of the guide and starts outputting the corresponding program content in place of the automatic program guide.

Also shown on the left side adjacent to the channel number information column are the up and down arrows and respectively. In some embodiments the down arrow is highlighted when automatic scrolling occurs in the downward direction and higher numbered channels subsequently appear as the scrolling occurs. Similarly in some embodiments the up arrow is highlighted when automatic scrolling occurs in the upward direction and lower numbered channels subsequently appear as the scrolling occurs.

The bottom portion of the program guide includes a row which displays the picture in graphic PIG portion and program descriptive information portion . In some embodiments the PIG portion is a scaled video window that shows video content e.g. short video clipping corresponding to a program on the current channel e.g. channel in the highlighted portion in the center with the video displayed in the PIG portion staying fixed and not changing as the scrolling occurs. In some other embodiments the PIG portion is a scaled video window that could be configured to tune to different channels as the guide scrolls e.g. dynamically changing displayed video content in the PIG portion window corresponding to the program on the channel that is currently highlighted. In such embodiments the displayed video content in the PIG portion changes as different program channels get into the highlighted portion in the center as the scrolling occurs. The descriptive portion includes a description of the corresponding program content that is displayed in the PIG portion .

The second program guide includes a plurality of rows and columns showing information regarding the programming content e.g. programs the name of the provider distributor e.g. channel network name and the corresponding scheduled on air time for various programs. The top row shows the date field and a three hour time window with half hour time slots during which a corresponding program is available for viewing on a corresponding channel. The time slots are identified by reference numbers and .

In contrast to the automatic program guide the second program guide includes a wider time span window e.g. 3 hour time span window as compared to the 2 hour window in the automatic guide and accordingly can show more number of programs per channel. Furthermore greater number of rows e.g. 7 rows each corresponding to a different channel are displayed at a given time on the second guide as compared to 5 channel rows in the automatic guide . However since the overall size of the program guide remains the same as automatic guide the font size for the information displayed in the second guide is smaller than that in the automatic guide . Also as should be appreciated there is no fixed highlighted portion in the second program guide . Rather as the user manually scrolls across the rows and columns in the displayed grid format guide the highlighted portion shift around a user selected channel and or program on channel in the guide . For example reference indicates that the user s current selection on the guide is HOUSE HUNTERS with the program name being in the highlighted box. As the user manually scrolls away the highlighted box will move around to the next user selection. When the user wishes to play a program on a channel listed on the second program guide the user can simply scroll to the desired program so that the highlighted box is around the desired program on the given channel and then press a SELECT PLAY OK button on the remote control e.g. full functionality and full button remote control. If the user makes a selection of a program on a channel prior to its scheduled on air time e.g. scheduled on air time has not arrived in some embodiments the user is presented an option to schedule recording of the selected program when it becomes available.

Column of the program guide shows channel number information for various channels listed in the program guide while column shows the name of various channels distribution networks. Each individual row in the plurality of rows through corresponds to a program channel. Row corresponds to channel number e.g. HGTVD and illustrates that a program show HOUSE HUNTERS is scheduled to be on air during the 11 00 11 30 time slot a program HOUSE HUNTERS INTERNATIONAL is scheduled to be on air during the 11 30 12 00 time slot a program AMAZING CHEF is scheduled to be on air during the 12 00 12 30 time slot a program THE COOKING SHOW is scheduled to be on air during the 12 30 1 00 time slot and a program BEST RESTAURANTS is scheduled to be on air during the 1 00 1 30 and 1 30 2 00 time slots.

Row corresponds to channel number e.g. A EHD channel and indicates the various programs that are or will be available on the corresponding channel during the different displayed time slots. Similarly rows through correspond to different channel numbers with each row indicating the on air timing and schedule for various programs.

The bottom portion of the program guide includes a row which displays the picture in graphic PIG portion and program descriptive information portion . In some embodiments the PIG portion of program guide is a scaled video window that shows video content e.g. short video clipping corresponding to a program which the user temporarily selected while scrolling through the program guide . As the user manually scrolls to different program and channels listed in the second guide the PIG portion displays different short video clippings corresponding to a program which the user temporarily selected while scrolling to provide a preview of the program to the user. The descriptive portion includes a description of the corresponding program content that is displayed in the PIG portion .

In accordance with one feature of the invention when displaying of the automatic program guide is enabled and after the channel dwell time threshold criteria is satisfied the actual channel lineup such as the one shown by drawing is logically modified such that in the given context an automatic guide channel is placed at the positions of the next channels adjacent to a current channel being displayed. This ensures that when the user presses up or down button on the remote control after dwelling on any displayed channel for a time greater than equal to the channel dwell time threshold in use the user device tunes to the automatic program guide channel. A portion of the modified channel lineup is shown in drawing . The channel number information is shown in column while the corresponding network or channel operator broadcaster information is shown in column . In various embodiments the modification is transparent to the user and is internally used by the user device and thus a user viewing the program guide does not see a modified channel lineup such as the one illustrated by drawing . However when the channel dwell time constraint is satisfied for a displayed channel and the user presses up or down button on the remote control the user device will tune to the automatic program guide channel and the user will be presented with the first program guide. As illustrated in drawing considering that the user dwells on channel which is BBC AMERICA in the actual channel lineup for a period of time greater than equal to the channel dwell time threshold in use the next adjacent channels i.e. channel ANIMAL PLANET and channel BET are temporarily logically shifted by one position so that the automatic guide channel e.g. channel number is the next channel adjacent to the currently displayed channel as indicated in rows and . Accordingly when the user presses up or down button on the remote control the user device will tune to the automatic program guide channel.

At other times when the user is normally flipping through the channels without the dwell time constraint being satisfied for a displayed channel the user device changes channels in the normal fashion following the actual channel lineup .

As shown the user device is optionally coupled to a display device e.g. a monitor and or a Television TV . The STB includes an Input Output I O interface a processor a codec Coder Decoder module and a storage device e.g. a memory coupled together via a bus . The various elements of the STB can exchange data and information over the bus . Via the I O interface the STB can exchange signals and or information with other devices and or system elements such as the server storage system in the network headend of region 1 via the communications network . The I O interface supports the receipt and or transmission of content and or other information from to different servers e.g. the BFS server SDV server etc. as indicated by arrow . To support the receipt and transmission of information the I O interface includes a receiver and transmitter . The receiver includes a tuner demodulator. The I O interface in various embodiments further includes e.g. an infrared signal receiver to receive signals from a user remote control device. The I O interface in various embodiments is configured to monitor for user input signals e.g. from user remote control devices.

The processor e.g. a CPU executes routines stored in the memory and under direction of the routines controls the STB to operate in accordance with the invention. The processor is responsible for controlling the general operation of the set top box including e.g. presentation of automatic program guide and or programs for display. To control the STB the processor uses information and or routines including instructions stored in memory . Routines include communications routines and set top box control routines. The Codec is implemented as a module and is capable of performing encoding and or decoding operations on a digital data stream or signal.

In addition to the routines the memory includes a user input detection and processing module a monitoring module a tuner control module a determination module a user option presentation module a first e.g. automatic program guide generation module a second e.g. non automatic program guide generation module a program guide presentation control module a control module a channel dwell time threshold modification module a scrolling rate control module program guide information user configuration settings first program guide and second program guide .

User input detection and processing module is configured to detect a user input signals e.g. from a control device such as remote control . Signals from the remote control may be received via I O interface which includes in addition to a cable network interface an IR infrared or radio interface for receiving signals from a remote control device. The input detection module determines on receipt of a signal e.g. control signal providing user input as to what type of control signal is received and or what type of selection has been made by the user e.g. channel up down selection a program guide selection a channel selection menu settings selection etc.

The monitoring module is configured to monitor channel dwell time for which a user dwells on a channel. The monitoring module includes a timer that is used to determine the time channel dwell time on a displayed channel. The output of the monitoring module is provided to the determination module and is used to determine whether or not the channel dwell time conditions for presentation of automatic program guide are satisfied.

The tuner control module is configured to control a tuner demodulator in the device to tune to a frequency corresponding to a program channel to be displayed. In some embodiments the tuner control module consults the program guide information including channel information received from the headend to determine the frequency corresponding to the user selected channel so that the tuner can tune to the correct frequency.

The determination module is configured to determine whether a channel dwell time reported by the monitoring module is greater than or equal to a channel dwell time threshold in use. In various embodiments the channel dwell time threshold in use is stored in the memory as part of the configuration settings . The determination module is further configured to determine if the channel dwell time in use is less than a first predetermined channel dwell time threshold. In various embodiments the first predetermined channel dwell time threshold is either preconfigured by the device manufacturer or set by the user or another administrator.

The user option presentation module supports and facilitates the interaction between the STB and the user operating STB . The user option presentation module in some embodiments controls presentation of prompts interactive messages to the user of the STB on the display device providing the user an opportunity to select and respond to a presented option. For example in some embodiments following a user input signal detection indicating that the user has requested to view program guide the user option presentation module is configured to present an option to the user to choose between a first e.g. automatic program guide or a second e.g. non automatic program guide for display. The user s response to the prompts are detected and the processor controls the STB to perform the functions in accordance with the user s responses. In various embodiments various other interactive messages discussed earlier are presented to the user by the user option presentation module in accordance with the features of the invention.

The first program guide generation module is configured to generate the first e.g. automatic guide. The first program guide generation module uses program guide information including the program and channel listing information received from the headend to generate the first program guide which is the output of module . In some embodiments the program guide information includes a listing of channels and programming content scheduled to be on those channels along with on air scheduled timing information for the programming content as well as other relevant information used by the STB in obtaining the programming content. Similarly the second program guide generation module is configured to generate the second e.g. non automatic guide. The second program guide generation module uses program guide information including the program and channel listing information received from the headend to generate the second program guide which is the output of module .

The program guide presentation control module is configured to control presentation of a program guide e.g. first or second program guide in accordance with the features of the invention. In some embodiments the user can configure the device to display the first automatic program guide whenever the user requests presentation of a program guide e.g. when program guide button is pressed on the remote control. In some such embodiments when the user selects program guide button from the remote control the guide presentation control module presents the automatic program guide for display. In some embodiments when the user indicates that a second e.g. non automatic program guide should be presented the guide presentation control module is configured to present the second program guide for display.

In accordance with one feature of various embodiments while viewing a displayed channel when the user channel change selection is detected e.g. pressing of up down button and the dwelling time on the displayed channel is greater than or equal to the dwell time threshold in use the program guide presentation control module controls the tuner in the device to tune to the automatic program guide channel and controls automatic presentation of the automatic program guide on the display device . In various embodiments the program guide presentation control module is further configured to highlight a portion of the displayed program guide the highlighted portion including a program channel. In various embodiments the program guide presentation control module is further configured to perform automatic scrolling through the program channels while the automatic program guide is displayed. In some embodiments as part of controlling the presentation of the automatic program guide the program guide presentation control module is further configured to change the program channel information being displayed so that the program channel in the highlighted portion of the program guide changes e.g. as the scrolling occurs. In some embodiments when a channel up change selection by the user triggers the automatic display of the first program guide the presentation control module sequentially displays program channel information in the highlighted portion of the displayed program guide corresponding to higher number program channels as part of changing the program channel information in the highlighted portion of the displayed guide. In some embodiments when a channel down change selection by the user triggers the automatic display of the first program guide the presentation control module sequentially displays program channel information in the highlighted portion of the displayed program guide corresponding to lower number program channels as part of changing the program channel information in the highlighted portion of the displayed guide.

The control module is configured to control the STB to switch from displaying the automatic program guide to outputting the program channel included in the highlighted portion of the displayed guide in response to a user channel change selection e.g. channel up or down selection while the automatic program guide is being displayed. The user channel change selection is detected by the user input detection and processing module which provides an input to the control module for taking further action e.g. perform switching. In some embodiments the user input detection and processing module is further configured to determine if the user channel change selection e.g. up or down selection which triggered the outputting of the highlighted program channel in place of the first program guide is different from the user channel change selection which triggered the automatic display of the first program guide.

The channel dwell time threshold modification module is configured to modify e.g. reduce or increase a channel dwell time threshold in use by the user device . In some embodiments the dwell time threshold modification module changes the dwell time threshold in response to a user input e.g. as discussed in flowchart . In some embodiments the channel dwell time threshold modification module is configured to temporarily reduce the dwell time threshold used to enable program guide presentation by temporarily changing the dwell time threshold from a first dwell time threshold to a second dwell time threshold the second dwell time threshold being shorter than said first dwell time threshold. In some embodiments the channel dwell time threshold modification module is configured to perform the temporary reduction when it is determined that a user channel change selection e.g. up or down channel selection which triggered outputting of a highlighted program channel in place of the automatic program guide is different from the user channel change selection which triggered the automatic display of the automatic program guide. In some embodiments the temporary reduction in the dwell time threshold remains in effect until the temporary dwell time threshold is satisfied or the user makes a channel change selection prior to the temporary dwell time threshold being satisfied.

The scrolling rate control module controls the scrolling rate used to scroll through the channel listing displayed as part of the automatic program guide . The scrolling rate control module controls the scrolling rate based on the scrolling rate specified in the configuration settings . In some embodiments the scrolling rate control module is configured to change e.g. reduce or increase the scroll rate used to scroll through the program channels while the automatic program guide is displayed e.g. in response to a user control signal indicating increase or decrease in the scrolling rate.

Program guide information including channel and program listing is received from the headed and is used by the first program guide generation module to generate the first program guide and by the second program guide generation module to generate the second program guide . In some embodiments the program guide generation modules request from a server e.g. such as server in the headend program guide information .

The user configuration settings are stored in the memory and may be updated upon detecting a change in the settings e.g. made by the user and or a temporary change by another element of user device in accordance with the invention. The configuration settings information include among other things first e.g. automatic guide settings including channel dwell time threshold scrolling rate guide dwell time threshold etc. In some embodiments the setting further include information indicating whether the user would like to view the first guide or the second guide when a program guide button is pressed on the user remote control e.g. in the embodiments where a full functionality full key remote control is used. In such embodiments when automatic program guide option is enabled by the user then upon user s selection of the program guide button on the remote control the first program guide is presented by default. When the automatic program guide option is enabled option is not enabled the user option presentation module provides an option to the user to select first or second regular program guide for display.

In various embodiments where a limited functionality limited key remote control is used automatic program guide is enabled by default since in such remote controls there is no program guide button available. Accordingly in such embodiments the first program guide is automatically presented upon detection of channel change selection by the user e.g. pressing of channel up or down key on the remote when the channel dwell time threshold conditions are satisfied.

In some embodiments various modules in the user device are implemented fully in hardware within the processor e.g. as individual circuits. In other embodiments some of the modules are implemented e.g. as circuits within the processor with other modules being implemented e.g. as circuits external to and coupled to the processor . Alternatively in some other embodiments rather than being implemented as circuits all or some of the modules may be implemented in software and stored in the memory of the user device with the modules controlling operation of the user device to implement the functions corresponding to the modules when the modules are executed by a processor e.g. processor .

In still other embodiments various modules are implemented as a combination of hardware and software e.g. with a circuit external to the processor providing input to the processor which then under software control operates to perform a portion of a module s function.

While shown in the embodiment as a single processor e.g. computer within device it should be appreciated that processor may be implemented as one or more processors e.g. computers. When implemented in software the modules include code which when executed by the processor configure the processor e.g. computer to implement the function corresponding to the module. In some embodiments processor is configured to implement each of the modules.

Completely hardware based or completely software based modules may be used. However it should be appreciated that any combination of software and hardware e.g. circuit implemented modules may be used to implement the functions. As should be appreciated the modules shown in control and or configure the user device or elements therein such as the processor to perform the functions of the corresponding steps illustrated and or described in the method of flowcharts and .

The remote control has an intuitive button layout making it easy for a user to use it. As illustrated in the figure remote control includes a speaker which allows a user to listen to the audible content being output by a user device e.g. STB being controlled by the remote control . In some embodiments the user can choose to listen to the audible content through the speaker or through the speakers normally built in the displaying device e.g. Television. The human icon is provided on the button is provided on the remote control using which a monitoring system can be alerted that the user of remote control needs assistance. For example the user can press the button to request assistance e.g. from a nurse or another individual who will be alerted when a signal is sent to a monitoring system monitored by the nurse or the other individual.

The TV button is provided to power up and power down one or more user devices e.g. such as STB and or a television. As shown in embodiment the remote control does not include number keys for controlling program channel selections which is normally provided in home remote control devices. However remote control includes large up and down arrow buttons and marked A and B respectively for controlling program channel selections. The remote control in some embodiments further includes a volume VOL button which can be selected to first present volume controls e.g. on the television or other display device and once the volume controls are displayed the up and down buttons can be used to increase or reduce the volume corresponding to the programming content being displayed to the user.

Various features of the invention allow the user of remote control to easily interact with a program guide e.g. automatic program guide with the limited keys provided on the remote control . In various embodiments the up and down control buttons of the remote control are used in combination with time e.g. between button selections to control and interact with a program guide. In various embodiments a user may switch between channels which are displayed on TV using the up and down arrows to browse through the channels. In accordance with one aspect after dwelling on a channel for at least a predetermined time upon making a channel up or down selection using the up or down buttons on the remote the user is presented with a first program guide e.g. program guide . In some embodiments the program guide automatically scrolls to present program listings corresponding to the channels in the direction of the channel change button that was pressed with the current channel being presented in a highlighted portion at the center of the grid guide. While the automatic program guide is being displayed if the user selects channel up button or channel down button the highlighted program channel is selected and presented to the user in place of the displayed program guide.

In contrast to the remote control device the remote control is implemented as a full functionality full keys button control device. As illustrated in the figure remote control includes a power on off button to turn the user device e.g. STB and or TV on and off a mute button to turn off the volume a volume control button which can be pressed both ways up or down to increase or decrease the volume of the TV and or home theater system and a channel up and down button which can be pressed both ways up or down to make channel selection. The channel up and down button can be used to move through on screen menus and or interact with the program guide in accordance with the features of the invention.

The three buttons and are used to input trick play commands and control viewing of recorded content. The reverse button is used for performing a rewind operation the play button is used to play and pause content while the forward button is used for performing a forward operation. The guide button can be used to display program guide the menu button is to present a menu with device e.g. user device settings and other configurable functions of the user device being controlled. The Pay Per View PPV button is used to display information regarding available PPV and on demand content. The input button allows the user to select TV input source when the TV is connected to multiple sources e.g. STB device DVD player gaming console etc. via different inputs.

Reference refers to the group of buttons including four arrows and an OK button that allows the user to move through an on screen menu or program guide to highlight selections while moving from one item to the next. The OK button in the middle can be used to select the highlighted item. The A B C buttons perform actions which are sometimes prompted on the display device screen e.g. make on screen decisions such as press A for YES and B for NO in response to an on screen prompt presented to the user. The number pad allows the user to enter the number of a desired channel for tuning to the channel and displaying the content.

In some embodiments a customer uses the remote control to interact with a program guide e.g. automatic program guide or non automatic guide . In various embodiments the up and down controls on the up down button of the remote are used in combination with time e.g. between button selections to control and interact with the program guide. Thus the remote control can be used to access and interact with a program guide in the similar manner as discussed above with regard to . In addition many more functions can be performed to control the user device e.g. STB since the remote control has more in built functions and input keys buttons. Still however a user can simply use the up down button in combination with time to interact with the exemplary automatic program guide in accordance with the features of the invention.

While monthly cable cost remains the main reasons why video subscribers choose to disconnect the overall navigation experience and video quality are important factors that affect a subscriber s decision whether to stay with a service provider or quit. Video subscribers who are healthy and possess a full range of mobility almost without fail associate remote control for cable set top boxes with all numeric alphabetic DVR On Demand Mute Last Options Info Guide Menu TV STB PIP etc buttons. There are video viewers who are severely handicapped in their ability to scroll or surf channels navigate through a program guide and or tune to a desired channel. Sometimes it is because they are equipped with button limited remote controllers such as the hospital bed remote controls . It is challenging for a service provider to provide even more enhanced video viewing and guide navigation experience consistently to viewers who are equipped with either media rich or button limited remote controls.

Various embodiments of the present invention describe novel and unique methods and apparatus to enable the service providers to further enrich resident digital navigator or on screen navigation application e.g. program guide with functions that allow video viewers the option to either channel tune and or view digital program listings or associated information visually seek program information without having to interact with the program guide via the remote control or to virtually seek and tune to a channel of choice with minimal key presses e.g. from various remote

Some embodiments are well suited for implementation where user devices such as set top boxes and TVs are operated by user with disability and or operated using a controller with limited functions and keys. Thus some features of the present invention provide enhanced video experience when operating with highly constrained limited controllers.

In various embodiments system elements described herein are implemented using one or more modules which are used to perform the steps corresponding to one or more methods of the present invention for example monitoring a dwell time on a channel determining if the dwell time exceeds a predetermined dwell time threshold used to enable program guide presentation automatically presenting e.g. displaying a program guide to the user receiving a user input signal etc. Each step may be performed by one or more different software instructions executed by a computer processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU . In some embodiments the modules may be implemented in software. In some embodiments the modules may be implemented in hardware e.g. as circuits. In some embodiments the modules may be implemented in a combination of hardware and software.

At least one system implemented in accordance with the present invention includes a means for implementing each of the various steps which are part of the methods of the present invention. Each means may be e.g. an instruction processor hardware circuit and or combination of elements used to implement a described step. Many of the above described methods or method steps can be implemented using machine e.g. computer executable instructions such as software included in a machine e.g. computer readable medium used to control a machine e.g. general purpose computer with or without additional hardware to implement all or portions of the above described methods e.g. in one or more nodes. The machine readable medium may be e.g. a memory device e.g. RAM floppy disk etc. Accordingly among other things the present invention is directed to a machine readable medium including machine executable instructions for causing a machine e.g. processor and associated hardware to perform one or more of the steps of the above described method s .

Numerous additional embodiments within the scope of the present invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the above description and the claims which follow. Such variations are to be considered within the scope of the invention.

