---

title: Methods and systems for team searches in a social networking service
abstract: Techniques for team searches within a social graph are described. Consistent with some embodiments, a search request initiated by a searching member profile is received. The search request includes search criteria. A team membership connection between the searching member profile and a team profile is then detected. Based on the detected team membership connection, profile connections between member profiles and teammates of the searching member profile are identified. The teammates are member profiles with team membership connections to the team profile. Then, matching member profiles are identified by matching the member profiles with the identified profile connection with the search criteria. The matching member profiles are then communicated to the searching member profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411891&OS=09411891&RS=09411891
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09411891
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130531
---
The present disclosure generally relates to data processing systems. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods systems and computer program products for performing searches in a social networking service.

A social network service may be a computer or web based service that enables users to establish links or connections with persons for the purpose of sharing information with one another. Some social network services aim to enable friends and family to communicate and share with one another while others are specifically directed to business users with a goal of facilitating the establishment of professional networks and the sharing of business information. For purposes of the present disclosure the terms social network and social network service are used in a broad sense and are meant to encompass services aimed at connecting friends and family often referred to simply as social networks as well as services that are specifically directed to enabling business people to connect and share business information also commonly referred to as social networks but sometimes referred to as business networks or professional networks .

Many social network services maintain a variety of personal information about their members. For instance with many social network services when a user registers to become a member the member is prompted to provide a variety of personal or biographical information which may be displayed in a member s personal web page. Such information is commonly referred to as personal profile information or simply profile information and when shown collectively it is commonly referred to as a member s profile. For instance with some of the many social network services in use today the personal information that is commonly requested and displayed as part of a member s profile includes a person s age birthdate gender interests contact information residential address home town and or state the name of the person s spouse and or family members and so forth. With certain social network services such as some business or professional network services a member s personal information may include information commonly included in a professional resume or curriculum vitae such as information about a person s education the company at which a person is employed an industry in which a person is employed a job title or function an employment history skills possessed by a person professional organizations of which a person is a member and so on.

Because social networking services can provide a platform for specifying a profile expressing opinions and connecting various users members of the social network service find it useful to utilize services of the social network service to search for and identify other members within the social network service that match a particular search criteria. For example a recruiter may initiate a search within the social networking service to identify those members that work for a given company list a given skill or expertise or the like. In some cases such searches may result in a large number of matches. To improve searches resulting in a large number of matches traditional systems may allow the user to narrow the search by identifying further search criteria such as a geographic location or any other search criteria and then performing a secondary search on the search results using the newly identified search criteria.

The present disclosure describes methods systems and computer program products for performing team searches on a social graph of a social networking service. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It should be understood that various modifications to the examples may be made. In particular elements of one example may be combined and used in other examples to form new examples. Many of the examples described herein are provided in the context of a social or business networking website or service. However the applicability of the inventive subject matter is not limited to a social or business networking service.

A social networking service may be an online service platform or site that allows members of the service to build or reflect social networks or social relations among the members. Typically members of the social networking service construct member profiles corresponding to a member which may include personal information such as the member s name contact information employment information photographs personal messages status information links to web related content blogs and so on. Generally only a portion of a members profile may be viewed by the general public and or other members. In some cases access rights may control the amount of information that may be viewed by other members. Different access rights may form a privacy policy which may control the information that may be viewed by other members. Such access rights may be dependent on the connections between the viewing member profile and the viewed member profile. For example if two member profiles are connected connections are described below in the social graph then they may have greater access to the information stored in the member profiles of each other.

In order to build or reflect social networks or social relations among members the social networking service allows members to identify and establish links or connections with other members. For instance in the context of a business networking service a type of social networking service a person may establish a link or connection with his or her business contacts including work colleagues clients customers and so on. With a friendship based networking service a person may establish links or connections with his or her friends and family. A connection is generally formed using an invitation process in which one member invites a second member to form a link. The second member than has the option of accepting or declining the invitation.

Some social networking services may offer a subscription or following model instead of or in addition to the connection model. A subscription or following model is where one member follows another member without mutual agreement. Typically in this model the follower is notified of public messages and other communications posted by the member that is followed. An example social networking service that follows this model is Twitter a micro blogging service which allows members to follow other members without explicit permission.

In general a connection or link represents or is otherwise associated with an information access privilege such that a first person who has established a connection with a second person is via the establishment of that connection authorizing the second person to view or access non publicly available portions of their profiles which may include communications they have authored e.g. blog posts messages wall postings or the like . Of course depending on the particular implementation of the business social networking service the nature and type of the information that may be shared as well as the granularity with which the access privileges may be defined to protect certain types of data may vary greatly.

In addition to creating a member profile the social networking service may be configured to define teams. A team within the context of a social networking service may be data or logic that organizes a group of members of the social networking service which may occur for a particular purpose. In some cases a team may infer certain rights to its members. For example members of a team may be granted rights to initiate a number of out of network messages view a number of out of network profiles make introductions and the like. An apt fiction for a team may be a team formed for a recruiting team a recruiting department or the like. Other fictions are also possible such as a sales team or members looking to network organizations or any suitable group of members looking to interact within the social networking service. In an example embodiment the social networking service may form connections between a member profile and a team profile similar to methods used to form connections or links between members. That is in some embodiments a member may request to join a team and an administrator for the team members may elect to accept the request or not. Alternatively or additionally the administrator may send requests to selected members to join a team which may then be accepted or not by the members. For clarity of description the members linked or connected to a team may be referred to as team members.

For clarity of description connections made between member profiles may be referred to as profile connections whereas connections between a member profile and a team profile may be referred to as a team membership connection.

Generally social networking services may be configured to perform member initiated searches on the social graph to identify relevant members as may be determined by search criteria. For example the social networking service may provide an interface for a user to enter search criteria e.g. a job title company name experience level name education or any other attribute . Once the search criteria have been entered the social networking service may then identify those members that match the criteria and then communicate the results to the member that initiated the search. In some cases the social networking service may identify a degree of connection e.g. first degree connections second degree connections and the like between the member initiating the search and the members in the search result.

Consistent with some embodiments a social network service provides members e.g. people companies schools government entities non profits or any other suitable type of entity with a computer implemented service for performing a type of search referred to herein as a team search. In a team search the social networking service may identify members of the social network service that are connected to team members of a team that the searching member is a part of. For example according to some embodiments the social networking service may detect a team membership connection between the searching member and a team. Responsive to detecting the team membership connection the social networking service may then identify profile connections between the team members and other members of the social networking service. Those members that are connections with the team members are then communicated in the search result to the searching member. An example of a team search is provided by TeamLink a product developed by LinkedIn headquartered in Mountain View Calif. United States.

The team search engine may be a computer implemented module configured to perform team searches based on team membership connections of the searching member. For example the team search engine may generate search results that indicate that not only does a given member match a search criteria but the given member also has a profile connection with a teammate of the searching member. The operations of the team search engine and the team generator module are described in greater detail below.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases such as a database for storing profile data including member profile data and team profiles. Consistent with some embodiments when a user initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number .

Further as discussed above the social network service may allow users e.g. member or administrators of the social network service to register or otherwise create team profiles or just simply teams used within the social network service to specify an organization of members within the social network service. The teams may be stored for example in the database with reference number or another database not shown .

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A profile connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the profile connection. In addition to profile connections the team generator module may generate a team membership connection between a member profile and a team profile. As with the profile connection the team membership connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the member joining the team and the team administrator such that both the member and the team administrator acknowledge the establishment of the team membership connection.

The various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members and with other entities such as teams are stored and maintained within the social graph shown in with reference number .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content viewed links selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database with reference number . This information may be used to classify the member as being in various categories. For example if the member performs frequent searches of job listings thereby exhibiting behavior indicating that the member is a likely job seeker this information can be used to classify the member as a job seeker. This classification can then be used as a member profile attribute for purposes of enabling others to target the member for receiving messages or status updates. Accordingly a company that has available job openings can publish a message that is specifically directed to certain members of the social network service who are job seekers and thus more likely to be receptive to recruiting efforts.

As discussed above the member profiles may be data or logic representing users of the social network service. For example the member profiles may include attributes specifying a member s name employment history educational history and the like. As discussed above member profiles may form profile connections with each other. Such profile connection may represent real life social connections between the members and may grant certain access rights to the connected members e.g. connected members may see private information listed on the member s profile page . This is shown in as the profile connection between member profile e.g. Ben Smith and member profile e.g. John Doe . The member profile and the member profile may be connected through a profile connection .

Also discussed above in addition to forming profile connections with member profiles the team generator may form team membership connections between member profiles and team profiles. Such team membership connections may represent that a member profile is a member of a team profile. This is shown in as the team membership connection between the member profiles . Because member profiles are members of the team profile the member profiles are collectively referred to as the team members . Further member profile may be referred to as a teammate of member profile and vice versa.

The member profiles the team profile and the connections e.g. profile connections and team membership connection may form a social graph according to example embodiments as may be stored in the database .

It is to be appreciated that the data model shown in is provided merely for illustration. Some embodiments may use different data models and still be consistent with this disclosure. For example some embodiments may define team profiles as a property within a member profile rather than a separate data object. In such embodiments the social networking service may list a team property by updating the member profile in such a way that the appropriate property is set with a value representing the team for example.

In some embodiments the invitation module may include additional elements for specifying access rights for the member being invited to join the team. For example access right element may allow the administrator to specify whether the invited members will have administration rights or membership rights. In some cases administration rights may grant a member rights to modify the properties of the team definition and to establish team membership connections therewith. Some embodiments may specify access rights of different scope e.g. separate sets of rights for modifying one or more properties and rights to modify the connections associated with the team profile . Once the administrator specifies the members of the social networking service that are to be invited to join the team the administrator may then activate a grant invitation element . Activating the grant invitation element may cause the team generator module to send invitations to the members of the social networking service specified by the member selection element .

The status modules and may be computer implemented modules generated by the team generator module to provide feedback on the status of the invitations to join the team that were sent to members. For example as shown in the status module may list one or more member profiles that have been previously invited to join the team the status of the invitation e.g. accepted declined or pending and account type e.g. access rights . The status module may provide a graphical representation of the status of the invitations sent by the administrator through the invitation module . For example the status module may show a visual chart or graph illustrating the number of invitations that have been accepted pending or in some embodiments declined.

Once a member has joined a team the member may initiate a team search on the social graph of the social networking service as may be performed by the team search engine . is a user interface diagram illustrating an example of a user interface or web page for initiating a team search and presenting the team search results according to an example embodiment. In some embodiments the team search engine may have generated the user interface illustrated in responsive to receiving search criteria entered by a searching member. As an example the searching member may have specified that the search criteria include the term Software Engineering. 

As shows the user interface may include a team search activator and member profiles displayed in a search result module . The team search activator may be a selectable user interface element that when activated by the searching member enables a team search that is based on the profile connections of the team members. Accordingly where the team search activator is disabled the team search engine may perform a conventional search. On the other hand where the team search activator is enabled the team search engine may perform a team search that surfaces profile connections of the teammates of the searching member. In some embodiments the team search engine may perform a team search in conjunction with conventional searches such as searches based on profile connections between members and the searching member.

The search result module may be a module generated by the team search engine that displays the results of a query submitted by the searching member. For example the search result module may display the member profile responsive to David Simpson being connected to the searching member and having a property matching the term Software Engineering. In some cases the searching member may be connected and the member represented by the member profile may be connected by a first degree connection e.g. the searching members exchanged an invitation to be connected and an acceptance of the invitation . In other cases the searching member and the member represented by the member profile may be connected by an indirect connection. An example of an indirect connection is a second degree connection where David Simpson and the searching member share a first degree connection. Other degrees of connection may also be included such as third degree connections fourth degree connections and so forth. The member profile may include a connection degree indicator to indicate the relative degree of connection between the searching member and the member profile

Similar to the member profile the member profile may also include a property that matches the search criteria term Software Engineering. However rather than being included because of a degree of profile connection e.g. first degree connection second degree connection and so forth the member profile may appear in the search result because the member profile may be a profile connection with a member profile that belongs to the same team as the searching member. For example with momentary reference to assuming that the member profile is the searching member member profile may appear in the search result because the member profile has the profile connection with member profile and in turn the member profile is part of the same team as the searching member e.g. member profile . This is member profile may be a profile connection of a teammate of the searching member.

With reference back to a team result indicator may be a user interface element that indicates that the member profile is part of the search result because the member profile is a profile connection with a member of the team. Further a team connection element may be a user interface element that responsive to user selection displays the team members that have profile connections with the member profile . In some embodiments the team connection element may include additional information such a count of the number of team members that are connected to the member profile the references to the team members that are connected to the member profile and any other suitable data characterizing the connections between the member profile and the team members.

The method may begin at operation when the team search engine receives a search request for member profiles in social network service. In an example embodiment the search request may include search criteria such as search terms facets and the like.

At operation responsive to receiving the search request the team search engine may determine whether a team search feature is enabled. For example as previously described above with reference to a searching member may select the team search activator displayed on a search interface. Activating the team search activator may provide a signal to the team search engine that the searching member would like the team search engine to identify profile connections of teammates of the searching member.

At operation the team search engine may then identify member profiles that are connected with a teammate of the searching member. For example in some embodiments the team search engine may identify a team membership connection between the searching member and a team profile and in turn the team members for that team. Then for each team member identified the team search engine may identify the member profiles that are connected to those team members by profile connections which may conceptually define the search space of member profiles. As described above a team may be formed based on an administrator creating a team profile sending invitations to members of a social network service and receiving acceptance of those invites. When a member accepts the invite the team generator may create a team membership connection between the team profile and the member profile which may be represented by data structures in the social graph data e.g. see social graph data shown in .

In some embodiments the team search engine may limit the member profiles identified at operation based on a degree threshold. A degree threshold as used herein may specify a level of degree of a connection between member profiles before being identified as a member profile that is connected to the team. For example one embodiment of the team search engine may limit connections of the team to be first degree connections of team members while another embodiment of the team search engine may limit connections of the team to be second or any other indirection connection of the team members. A degree threshold may be a configuration parameter of the team search engine .

Continuing with at operation the team search engine may identify the member profiles that match the search criteria specified by the search request. For example and not limitation the team search engine may identify the member profiles that include the search term Software Engineering. In other embodiments the team search engine may also match the member profiles based on facets specified by the search request such as by a company name location job title degree of connection group participation and the like.

At operation the team search engine may communicate the search results to the searching member. For example the team search engine may generate search results displayable in the user interface of . In some cases the team search engine may provide the searching member access rights to the member profiles communicated in the search results as if the searching member is a profile connection. For example the searching member may be given access to view information from the member profile in the search result that is granted to first degree connections. Other access rights may allow the member profile to send a message to the member profile in the search result.

It is to be appreciated that the embodiments disclosed above may be practiced in alternative embodiments without departing from the embodiments contemplated by this disclosure. For example although the team search engine of was described as limiting the member profiles identified as being connected to a team based on a connection threshold other embodiments may generate connections of a team on a periodic or scheduled basis. For example where a member profile is connected to a team profile the team generator may include first degree or any other degree connections of the accepting member to the connections of the team. Thereafter the team generator may execute a scheduled possibly periodic process that iterates over the profile connections of the team members to determine if the team members established any new profile connections since they first joined the team. If so the team generator may create a new relationship between the new profile connections and the team profile. Such scheduled processing may improve the processing time used to perform searches of team connections because the connections of the team are pre computed.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules or objects that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules and objects referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules and or objects.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or within the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

