---

title: System for enabling sponsored user identities on a mobile device
abstract: A system for enabling brands to engage with mobile users having sponsored identities dedicated to those specific brands. Brands are enabled to give mobile numbers to individual users without the need of mobile infrastructure investment by the brand itself and without the need of the end user to purchase a specific mobile device or SIM and without the need for the brand to act as a Mobile Virtual Network Operator. The system therefore allows brands to engage with mobile users using dedicated sponsored identities in a much faster and more engaging way and without the need of mobile infrastructure investment by the brand itself.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392394&OS=09392394&RS=09392394
owner: Movirtu Limited
number: 09392394
owner_city: 
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20131107
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 723 586 filed Nov. 7 2012 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 945 244 by Delaet et al. hereinafter Delaet filed on Aug. 13 2007 and titled Method and Apparatus for Communicating using a plurality of identities is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 295 856 by Chris Horn et al. hereinafter Horn filed on Nov. 14 2011 and titled Method and System for Enabling Usage of Mobile Telephone Services on a Donor Device is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 880 640 by Rohit Jerath et al. hereinafter Jerath filed on Oct. 18 2011 and titled Method and System for Enabling shared Mobile Data Usage is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Throughout this application the term brand is used to mean any organization that provides goods or services. For example a brand in this context can be any type of company association person group or organization. Moreover the terms company association person group and organization are used interchangeably and the use of one should be understood to encompass the others.

The specifications set out by The 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP specifications define the operation of mobile voice and data services within a telecommunications network. The term 3GPP specification covers all GSM including GPRS and EDGE W CDMA and LTE including LTE Advanced specifications. All 3GPP specifications from the years 2000 through 2011 are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Throughout this application standard telecom industry terms are used. The International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI is the unique number identifying the subscriber and is preprogrammed onto the subscriber s SIM card and held also in the Mobile Network Operator s Home Location Register HLR database. The Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Directory Number MSISDN is the mobile telephone number given to a particular user.

The General Packet Radio Service GPRS is a technology used in mobile networks to carry Internet Protocol IP packets across networks.

The roles of the Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN and Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN are well defined in the 3GPP specifications and are familiar to persons skilled in the art.

Throughout this application the terms mobile station and mobile device are used. These can refer to any type of GSM device capable of sending or receiving data over a GPRS 3G WIMAX or LTE network or their equivalents or evolutions. Furthermore a mobile device can also refer to the device compliant with the emerging Machine 2 Machine M2M specifications being developed by ETSI the European Telecommunications Standards Institute .

Throughout this application the terms API Server and MXGateway are used. The API Server Application Programming Interface Server is a designation given to an element of the system that is responsible for interacting with the brands. The MXGateway is a designation given to a specific instance of an element of the system that is responsible for interacting with the mobile network operator s core network elements and also with the mobile application. The API Server and MXGateway can be implemented using computer software and or hardware.

In many countries in the developed world mobile phone penetration has far exceeded the 100 level meaning that the mobile phone is now an essential tool in many peoples daily lives. The emergence of smart mobile devices with associated mobile application ecosystems and application stores for example those provided by the companies Apple and Google is in widespread use across many mobile devices. These ecosystems open up new business opportunities for many companies.

As a result of this many organizations have realized great potential in mobile devices and are experimenting with new levels of customer engagement using mobile technology. Indeed some brands have decided to take the step of setting themselves up as a Mobile Virtual Network Operator MVNO so that they are able to sell mobile devices with associated mobile numbers and Subscriber Identity Module SIM cards. By setting themselves up as an MVNO the brand can engage better with its customers allowing the customer to feel connected to the brand by having a mobile number and in some cases also a mobile device provided by the brand itself. In addition the brand can offer mobile services thereby providing an additional source of revenue.

However MVNOs are time consuming and expensive to setup. They require the brand to conform to certain telecom regulations and require the brand to have a detailed knowledge of mobile technology and services that in many cases they will not have in house. MVNOs also compete with mobile operators to attract subscribers away from the traditional networks often requiring the end user to sign a new mobile contract and often to purchase a new device in the process.

There is therefore a need for a system that can lower the barrier of entry for brands enabling them to engage with their customers with specific mobile identities on existing mobile network infrastructure and using existing mobile devices.

In one aspect the system described herein can provide the ability for identities to be managed and offered by organizations other than the mobile operator by interacting with a central API Server that in turn can interact with a network of MXGateway servers and end users using mobile applications. For example a Brand can manage sponsored identities and how a user might receive credits on accounts related to those identities initiated by the Brand.

The system described herein provides a mechanism for a user to download a mobile application offered by a brand using a common ecosystem such as for example those provided by Apple and Google. The user registers the mobile application with the system described herein and as part of that registration process the user receives a unique sponsored mobile identity for example an MSISDN which is tied to the mobile application instance and is known by and may even be offered by the brand. Having received a sponsored mobile identity a user can choose to make and receive calls send messages and consume mobile data services using the sponsored identity. The user may do this in parallel to using his normal primary MSISDN using the same mobile device and same SIM card and using his existing mobile contract with his mobile operator. As part of the registration process the brand is informed about the sponsored identity that the user is allocated by the system.

A User makes a call to the Brand s customer care department. The call is invoked from within the Brand s mobile application using the user s unique sponsored identity as the Calling Line Identity CLI . The brand is able to identify the specific user calling and can provide an enhanced level of customer care if they so wish.

B User can send or receive Short Message Service SMS or Multimedia Service MMS messages to or from the brand. Such messages can be used for example for customer care advertising and promotional purposes.

C User can consume mobile data services for example browse the web or check email using his sponsored identity and related charging account. In this way the brand could offer bundles of mobile data.

F The brand can offer loyalty or bonus points programmes such as those provided by companies such as Air Miles or Nector. The loyalty points accumulated by the user can be exchanged for airtime or data services consumed by the sponsored identity.

In an exemplary embodiment the system for enabling at least one sponsored identity on a mobile device can have a mobile device having at least one mobile application wherein each of the at least one mobile application has an assigned sponsored identity. The system can have at least one MXGateway instance located within a mobile network wherein said at least one mobile application is configured to communicate a prefix and to indicate the at least one sponsored identity to the at least one MXGateway instance. The system can have an API Server capable of communication with at least one brand and the at least one MXGateway instance and a means for making a request to reserve the at least one sponsored identity with the API Server wherein said API Server is configured to communicate with the at least one MXGateway instance wherein the at least one MXGateway instance is configured to allocate a range or list of the at least one sponsored identity. The system can also have a mapping table for converting the prefix to the at least one sponsored identity.

An aspect of the system can further have a Mobile Operator charging system wherein the at least one MXGateway instance can be configured to interact with the Mobile Operator charging system so that each unique sponsored identity has a unique account. Another aspect of the system the at least one MXGateway instance can have a stored list of available prefixes and a timer wherein the at least one MXGateway instance is configured to communicate an available prefix from the available prefixes to the at least one mobile application instance wherein the at least one mobile application comprises a timer.

An aspect of the system can have a means for prepending said prefix to a destination address and for sending Short Messages to a Short Message Service Centre. The system can also have a means for prepending said prefix to the at least one sponsored identity and for sending Multimedia Messages to a Multimedia Message Service Centre.

In an exemplary embodiment a system for enabling at least one sponsored identity on a mobile device can include providing a mobile device having at least one mobile application wherein each of the at least one mobile application has an assigned sponsored identity providing at least one MXGateway instance located within a mobile network and providing an API Server capable of communication with at least one brand and the at least one MXGateway instance wherein the API Server receives a brand request to reserve the at least one sponsored identity. The API Server can communicate with the at least one MXGateway instance and the at least one MXGateway instance allocates a range or list comprising at least some of the at least one sponsored identity. The mobile application can use a prefix to indicate to the at least one MXGateway instance the sponsored identity used for mobile originated calls and the at least one MXGateway instance can use a mapping table to convert a unique prefix to a sponsored identity to be used by the at least one mobile application when originating calls or messages or when using mobile data services.

An aspect of the system can further include the at least one MXGateway instance interacting with a Mobile Operator s charging system so that each unique sponsored identity has its own prepaid or postpaid account. A pool of available prefixes can be maintained by the at least one MXGateway instance and the prefix can be communicated to the at least one mobile application instance using a mechanism of two timers. A first timer can be held in the at least one mobile application and a second timer held in the at least one MXGateway instance. In an aspect of the system the prefix can be used to indicate the at least one sponsored identity and the prefix can be prepended to a destination address by the at least one mobile application instance and used for sending Short Messages to a Short Message Service Centre. The system can include the prefix being used to indicate the at least one sponsored identity and the prefix can be prepended to a destination address by the at least one mobile application instance and used for sending Multimedia Messages to a Multimedia Message Service Centre.

Other aspects embodiments and features will be apparent from the following description the drawings and the claims.

A system for sponsored user identities is described herein. The system can have a network server which can be located for example within a Mobile Network Operator s network providing functionality to allow multiple user identities for example mobile phone numbers to co exist at the same time on the same device using a single Subscriber Identity Module SIM card residing within said device. The network server can interact with the Mobile Network Operator s charging systems to credit and debit accounts tied to the user identities and the network server can interact with an API Application Programming Interface gateway which can be located in or outside of the Mobile Network Operator s network. The API Server can interact with one or more mobile client applications residing on a mobile device. Each mobile client application can act as at least one user identity and the subscriber using the mobile client application and its user identity as a virtual mobile telephone to for example make and receive calls send and receive text messages use mobile data services such as email and web browsing.

So that a Brand may reserve identity ranges and make identity numbers available to its user base the Brand can register itself with the API Server. A System Administrator of the API Server could be involved in this process. Various Brand credentials could be held in the API Server s database MXGateway Table for example the Brand name address and a list of mobile network operators and associated territories Regions in which the Brand wishes to offer the Sponsored Identities. This registration process could include commercial and contractual terms agreed between the Brand and entities such as the API Server provider and the Mobile Network Operator.

A Brand can reserve user identities with the API Server for example after registering itself with the API Server. The API Server can interact with the MXGateways in one or more Regions as required to ensure that these identity ranges are made available to the users within a particular Region and within the domain of a particular Mobile Network Operator.

An example process of a Brand reserving identities is detailed in . In Step a Brand can make a request to an API Server specifying for example Brand Brand name or Brand identifier Qty Quantity Operator Mobile Network Operator name or identifier and Region Region name or identifier . In step the API Server can first identify the particular MXGateway that is responsible for serving the users within the specified domain. The API Server therefore queries its MXGateway Table specifying for example the Brand Mobile Network Operator and Region. The result of this query can be an address of an MXGateway instance i.e. any identifier for example an Internet Protocol Address or Domain Name Service DNS equivalent name . Having retrieved the MXGateway address the API Server can then make a request to allocate identities to the MXGateway using the MXGateway address. The request can include for example the Brand and the quantity of identities being requested.

The MXGateway instance can mark the requested number of identities as reserved and return in Step the range of reserved identities to the API Server . In an embodiment the MXGateway can in Step return a list of specific identities it has reserved. In Step the API Server can return the range or list of identities to the Brand .

It should be noted the above process is given by way of non limiting example and the process of a Brand reserving user identities with the system can be different to that detailed here.

A user can invoke an instance of a mobile application with said mobile application instance having an assigned sponsored user identity Sponsored ID for example an MSISDN. So that a mobile application instance can be assigned a Sponsored ID it could register with the system.

An example process of a mobile application registering itself with the system is detailed in . In Step a mobile application instance residing within a mobile device can make a request to the API Server to identify the address of the MXGateway with which it should communicate. The request contains for example the Mobile Network Operator name or identifier and the Region name or identifier . The mobile application instance might for example be preconfigured with an IP address or DNS address of the API Server. The Mobile Application instance might also be preconfigured with the Mobile Network Operator and or Region of the system with which it should communicate. In Step upon receiving the request the API Server queries the MXGateway Table to identify the address of the MXGateway instance. In Step the API Server can receive the MXGateway address. In Step the API Server then responds to the mobile application instance with the MXGateway Address. Now that the mobile application instance knows the address of the MXGateway instance it can submit in Step a request to reserve Sponsored ID to the MXGateway instance specifying for example the Brand the Region details of the user operating the mobile device and the user s Primary ID for example MSISDN . These details may be useful to the Brand or indeed the Mobile Network Operator so that it can identify the real user behind the Sponsored ID. At least the Primary ID and the sponsored ID can be held in the MXGateway instance identity database. In Step the MXGateway instance can allocate an identity from its list of reserved identities corresponding to the specified brand and then make a request to the API Server . The request can contain for example the Brand Region Sponsored Identity and details of the user. In Step the API Server informs the Brand that a request is being made to register a Sponsored ID by a mobile application instance. The request can include for example the Mobile Network Operator the Region the Sponsored ID being reserved and details of the user that it has received from the mobile application instance . Upon receiving the request the Brand must decide whether to allow or deny the request. shows the successful case where the Brand has decided to allow the request and hence in Step Brand responds with OK to the API Server . In step API Server can update its MXGateway Table with details of the user comprising for example Brand Operator Region User and Sponsored ID. Next API Server in Step responds with OK to MXGateway instance . In Step MXGateway instance responding with OK to the mobile application instance and optionally including the prefix corresponding to the brand see Option 1 fixed mapping of Prefixes to Mobile Application Instances and optionally including the Sponsored ID. The Sponsored ID is not actually needed to be known by the mobile application instance except that it may be useful to inform the user of the Sponsored ID. The mobile application instance stores the Prefix for later re use.

It should be noted the above process is given by way of example and the process of a Mobile Application registering user identities with the system can be different to that detailed here.

The MXGateway can be responsible for ensuring that the correct Sponsored ID is used in outgoing calls Short Message Service SMS and MultiMedia Service MMS messages. As identified by Horn the called party number or destination number of the call or message could be prefixed with a sequence for example of 3 or 4 digits to cause the call or message to be routed by the mobile network operator s core network to the MXGateway . The prefix can identify the specific mobile application instance that is originating the call or message. The MXGateway instance may then strip off the prefix and re route the call or message onwards within the mobile network before doing so replacing the originating number calling party number or source address with the Sponsored ID corresponding to the registered mobile application instance.

A mechanism is therefore needed within the MXGateway to manage the use of prefixes corresponding to mobile application instances and user identities. The mechanism can ensure that a prefix always uniquely identifies a mobile application instance. The mechanism could inform the mobile application instance as to which prefix to use when it originates calls or SMS or MMS messages. Since according to the 3GPP specifications a destination number has a maximum length of 20 digits the prefix typically needs to be restricted in length allowing enough space to carry the user identity itself.

With this option the MXGateway can maintain a mapping table consisting of the user s primary user identity also held in the HLR e.g. MSISDN Brand name or identity prefix and Sponsored ID. The limitation with this option is that the number of brands allowed to be supported by the MXGateway instance is exactly the same as the number of prefixes. So a prefix length of 4 digits will provide support for a maximum of 10 000 brands. In this embodiment the prefix obtained by the MXGateway cross referencing said prefix with Brand ID and the prefix is passed to the mobile application instance in Step of .

With this option the MXGateway can maintain a pool of prefixes against Brand IDs. Here the mobile application instance can make a request to the MXGateway prior to originating a call or message to request a prefix. Mobile application instance also at this point can start a timer T. MXGateway can take the next available prefix from a pool and mark as reserved. MXGateway can inform the mobile application instance of the prefix to use for the duration of timer T. MXGateway then can start timer T. Upon expiration of timer T said mobile application instance is required to request a new prefix from MXGateway before it may originate any further calls or messages. Upon expiration of timer T MXGateway can return the prefix to the pool of available prefixes.

With this option the MXGateway number of available prefixes is approximately equal to the number of simultaneous calls that may be handled by the MXGateway assuming that the two timers are kept within the duration of a typical call .

It should be noted the above options are given by way of example and the process of managing prefixes and can be different to that detailed here. It should also be noted that the prefixes maintained by the MXGateway are only required to be unique within the domain of one Mobile Network Operator.

The process for handling of mobile terminating calls SMS and MMS messages is well specified in Horn s application and is incorporated herein in its entirety. The mechanism entails the System Server e.g. MXGateway emulating the behavior of a Visitor Location Register VLR .

Each sponsored identity can have prepaid or postpaid accounts managed by the MXGateway by interfacing with the IN Intelligent Network or charging systems of the operator since the sponsored identity would be held in the operator s IN and or charging systems and calls or SMS messages would be routed via the MXGateway as described in Horn.

Jerath incorporated herein in its entirety describes how a GTP messages can be intercepted by a system server to replace the subscriber s IMSI with a secondary IMSI for the purpose of supporting charging to multiple virtual identities from a shared mobile device with a single SIM card. This mechanism can be further enhanced within a system for sponsored identities by the mobile application providing prior indication to the MXGateway that a sponsored identity wishes to consume mobile data services. With this mechanism the mobile application can inform the MXGateway of its prefix that it was allocated during registration. As described above the prefix can also be given to the mobile application prior to commencement of transmitting mobile data. Once data consumption begins the MXGateway intercepts GTP traffic as described by Jerath replacing the primary IMSI with a virtual IMSI. The virtual IMSI is held in the sponsored identity database within the MXGateway. The virtual IMSI is held in a table alongside the prefix and the primary IMSI.

A user can initiate a request from the mobile application instance to check available credit on the sponsored identity. This would be achieved for example by the mobile application sending a request to the MXGateway instance and the MXGateway instance in turn querying the credit on the sponsored identity account held in the IN Billing System and said credit being returned by the MXGateway instance to the mobile application instance.

The various techniques methods and systems described above can be implemented in part or in whole using computer based systems and methods. Additionally computer based systems and methods can be used to augment or enhance the functionality described above increase the speed at which the functions can be performed and provide additional features and aspects as a part of or in addition to those described elsewhere in this document. Various computer based systems methods and implementations in accordance with the above described technology are presented below.

In one implementation a general purpose computer can have an internal or external memory for storing data and programs such as an operating system e.g. DOS Windows 2000 Windows XP Windows NT OS 2 iOS UNIX or Linux and one or more application programs. Examples of application programs include computer programs implementing the techniques described herein authoring applications e.g. word processing programs database programs spreadsheet programs simulation programs engineering programs or graphics programs capable of generating documents or other electronic content client applications e.g. an Internet Service Provider ISP client an e mail client or an instant messaging IM client capable of communicating with other computer users accessing various computer resources and viewing creating or otherwise manipulating electronic content and browser applications e.g. Microsoft s Internet Explorer or Google Chrome capable of rendering standard Internet content and other content formatted according to standard protocols such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP HTTP Secure or Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol.

One or more of the application programs can be installed on the internal or external storage of the general purpose computer. Alternatively in another implementation application programs can be externally stored in or performed by one or more device s external to the general purpose computer.

The general purpose computer includes a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions in response to commands and a communication device for sending and receiving data. One example of the communication device is a modem. Other examples include a transceiver a communication card a satellite dish an antenna a network adapter network interface card mobile internet device or some other mechanism capable of transmitting and receiving data over a communications link through a wired or wireless data pathway.

The general purpose computer can include an input output interface that enables wired or wireless connection to various peripheral devices. Examples of peripheral devices include but are not limited to a mouse a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a tablet computer a keyboard a display monitor with or without a touch screen input and an audiovisual input device. In another implementation the peripheral devices can themselves include the functionality of the general purpose computer. For example the mobile phone or the PDA can include computing and networking capabilities and function as a general purpose computer by accessing the delivery network and communicating with other computer systems. Examples of a delivery network include the Internet the World Wide Web WANs LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable or satellite systems and other delivery mechanisms for carrying data. A communications link can include communication pathways that enable communications through one or more delivery networks.

In one implementation a processor based system e.g. a general purpose computer can include a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and can also include a secondary memory. The secondary memory can include for example a hard disk drive or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive Blu Ray DVD CD drive magnetic tape paper tape punched cards standalone RAM disks solid state drive or flash memory devices including memory cards USB flash drives solid state drives etc. The removable storage drive reads from or writes to a removable storage medium. A removable storage medium can include a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk Blu Ray disc DVD CD a memory card CompactFlash card Secure Digital card Memory Stick paper data storage punched card punched tape etc. which can be removed from the storage drive used to perform read and write operations. As will be appreciated the removable storage medium can include computer software or data.

In alternative embodiments the secondary memory can include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into a computer system. Such means can include for example a removable storage unit and an interface. Examples of such can include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as can be found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an EPROM or PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to the computer system.

In one embodiment the computer system can also include a communications interface that allows software and data to be transferred between the computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interfaces can include a modem a network interface such as for example an Ethernet card a communications port and a PCMCIA slot and card. Software and data transferred via a communications interface are in the form of signals which can be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by a communications interface. These signals are provided to a communications interface via a channel capable of carrying signals and can be implemented using a wireless medium wire or cable fiber optics or other communications medium. Some examples of a channel can include a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link a network interface and other suitable communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are generally used to refer to media such as a removable storage device a disk capable of installation in a disk drive and signals on a channel. These computer program products provide software or program instructions to a computer system.

Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored in main memory or secondary memory. Computer programs can also be received via a communications interface. Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the described techniques. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system.

In an embodiment where the elements are implemented using software the software can be stored in or transmitted via a computer program product and loaded into a computer system using for example a removable storage drive hard drive or communications interface. The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the techniques described herein.

In another embodiment the elements are implemented primarily in hardware using for example hardware components such as PAL Programmable Array Logic devices application specific integrated circuits ASICs or other suitable hardware components. Implementation of a hardware state machine so as to perform the functions described herein will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art s . In yet another embodiment elements are implanted using a combination of both hardware and software.

In another embodiment the computer based methods can be accessed or implemented over the World Wide Web by providing access via a Web Page to the methods described herein. Accordingly the Web Page is identified by a Universal Resource Locator URL . The URL denotes both the server and the particular file or page on the server. In this embodiment it is envisioned that a client computer system interacts with a browser to select a particular URL which in turn causes the browser to send a request for that URL or page to the server identified in the URL. Typically the server responds to the request by retrieving the requested page and transmitting the data for that page back to the requesting client computer system the client server interaction is typically performed in accordance with the hypertext transport protocol or HTTP . The selected page is then displayed to the user on the client s display screen. The client can then cause the server containing a computer program to launch an application to for example perform an analysis according to the described techniques. In another implementation the server can download an application to be run on the client to perform an analysis according to the described techniques.

