---

title: Communications device and a method thereby, a base station and a method thereby, a system, and a non-transitory computer readable medium
abstract: A system is disclosed in which a communications device communicates via a cell operated by a base station of a communications network. The communications device identifies that transmission of data to a communications node coupled to the communications network has been triggered; determines whether an indication of radio quality in the cell meets a required radio quality criteria responsive to the transmission being triggered. The transmitting element transmits the data to the communications network after a delay if the quality of radio signals does not meet the required radio quality criteria, and without the delay if the quality of radio signals meets the required radio quality criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09474026&OS=09474026&RS=09474026
owner: NEC CORPORATION
number: 09474026
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130729
---
The present invention relates to a communications system. The invention has particular but not exclusive relevance to wireless communications systems and devices thereof operating according to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP standards or equivalents or derivatives thereof. The invention has particular although not exclusive relevance to the scheduling of transmissions by Machine Type Communications devices.

The latest developments of the 3GPP standards are referred to as the Long Term Evolution LTE of EPC Evolved Packet Core network and E UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network . Under the 3GPP standards a NodeB or an eNB in LTE is the base station via which communications devices connect to a core network and communicate to other communications devices or remote servers. For simplicity the present application will use the term base station to refer to any such base stations. Communications devices might be for example mobile communications devices such as mobile telephones smartphones user equipment personal digital assistants laptop computers web browsers e book readers and the like. Such mobile or even generally stationary devices are typically operated by a user. However 3GPP standards also make it possible to connect Machine Type Communications MTC devices sometimes also referred to as Machine to Machine M2M communications devices to the network which typically comprise automated equipment such as various measuring equipment telemetry equipment monitoring systems tracking and tracing devices in vehicle safety systems vehicle maintenance systems road sensors digital billboards point of sale POS terminals remote control systems and the like. MTC devices can be implemented as a part of a generally stationary apparatus such as vending machines roadside sensors POS terminals although some MTC devices can be embedded in non stationary apparatus e.g. vehicles or attached to animals or persons to be monitored tracked.

For simplicity the present application refers to MTC devices in the description but it will be appreciated that the technology described can be implemented on any communications devices mobile and or generally stationary that can connect to a communications network for sending receiving data regardless whether such communications devices are controlled by human input or software instructions stored in memory.

MTC devices connect to the network to send to or receive data from a remote machine e.g. a server or user. MTC devices use communication protocols and standards that are optimised for mobile telephones or similar user equipment. However MTC devices once deployed typically operate without requiring human supervision or interaction and follow software instructions stored in an internal memory. MTC devices might also remain stationary and or inactive for a long period of time. The specific network requirements to support MTC devices have been dealt with in the 3GPP TS 22.368 standard the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Some MTC devices are deployed at remote hazardous or concealed locations or at locations with restricted access. In addition they might be deployed in a high number and over a large geographical area e.g. tsunami detection sensors . MTC devices are thus generally designed to be able to operate without human supervision and for as long as possible. For example MTC devices can be programmed to autonomously set up a connection to report an event and then to go back to a low power mode of operation such as a sleep mode stand by mode and the like.

Power consumption is a highly important aspect of all mobile terminals relying on battery power and also mobile terminals using an external power supply. Its importance increases with the continued growth of MTC device population and their more demanding use cases. In the case of certain Machine to Machine M2M applications e.g. sensors that are running on battery power the on site exchange or recharging of the batteries of a large number of devices can represent a significant expense for MTC device owners operators. Furthermore the battery lifetime can determine the device s lifetime or useful operational time if it is not possible to charge or replace the battery cost effectively.

In a battery powered communications device battery life reduces with increased transmission power. In 3GPP networks power control is used in order to reduce transmission power and overall interference. For example a mobile terminal that is located close to its serving base station and or experiencing generally good signal propagation characteristics transmits using a relatively low power whilst a mobile terminal that is located further away from the base station and or under bad propagation characteristics transmits using relatively higher power e.g. near to or at a maximum transmit power. This mechanism can be used to improve battery life for mobile terminals that are located near their serving base station most of the time typically for example in an urban environment with good network coverage because they rarely have to transmit using their maximum transmission power. However a principal goal of the above 3GPP power control scheme is not to conserve battery power but to balance the signal quality of each physical link at the base station s transceiver thereby maximising the overall system capacity.

In order to achieve further improvements in battery conservation therefore there is a need for an improved power control mechanism that may be sufficient to further prolong the battery life of communications devices e.g. MTC devices that are experiencing varying signal conditions e.g. due to their mobility or significant changes in the attenuation of the signal path between them and their serving base station.

Accordingly preferred embodiments of the present invention aim to provide methods and apparatus which address or at least partially deal with the above needs.

Although for efficiency of understanding for those of skill in the art the invention will be described in detail in the context of a 3GPP system UMTS LTE the principles of the invention can be applied to other systems in which communications devices or User Equipment UE access a core network using a radio access technology.

Accordingly in one aspect the invention provides a communications device for communicating via a cell operated by a base station of a communications network the communications device comprising means for identifying that transmission of data to a communications node coupled to said communications network has been triggered means for determining an indication of radio quality in said cell and for determining whether said indication of radio quality meets a required radio quality criteria responsive to said transmission being triggered and means for transmitting said data to the communications network wherein said transmitting means is operable to a transmit said data to said communications network after a delay if said determining means has determined that said quality of radio signals does not meet said required radio quality criteria and b transmit said data to said communications network without said delay if said determining means has determined that said quality of radio signals meets said required radio quality criteria.

The communications device might further comprise means for monitoring when said determining means has determined that said quality of radio signals does not meet said required criteria said indication of radio quality in said cell and for determining whether said indication of radio quality changes to meet said required radio quality criteria.

The means for transmitting said data might be operable to transmit said data to the communications network after a predetermined maximum delay if said monitoring means determines that said indication of radio quality has not changed to meet said required radio quality criteria. The means for transmitting said data might also be operable to transmit said data to the communications network before said predetermined maximum delay has expired responsive to said monitoring means determining that said indication of radio quality has changed to meet said required radio quality criteria.

The monitoring means might be operable to determine if a change in said indication of radio quality is indicative of a decrease in said radio quality and wherein said means for transmitting said data is operable to transmit said data to the communications network before said predetermined maximum delay has expired responsive to said monitoring means determining that a change in said indication of radio quality is indicative of a decrease in said radio quality.

The predetermined maximum delay might be set by an entity in the communications network for example the base station. The predetermined maximum delay might be set dependent on an identity or type of at least one of any data to be sent an application generating the data said communications device said communications network a base station the cell in which the communications device is located a routing area in which the communications device is located a tracking area in which the communications device is located and a location area in which the communications device is located or a list comprising said identity or type.

The communications device might further comprise means for updating said predetermined maximum delay in the event of a change of cell serving said communications device to a cell having a different predetermined maximum delay.

The communications device might be configured to operate in a low power mode to enter a higher power mode in order to transmit any data and to return to said low power mode after any data has been transmitted.

The indicator of radio quality might comprise a signal quality measurement result. Furthermore the radio quality criteria might comprise a threshold value. In this case the indicator of radio quality might be determined to have met said radio quality criteria if said indicator of radio quality meets or exceeds said threshold value. Alternatively the indicator of radio quality might be determined to have met said radio quality criteria if said indicator of radio quality meets or falls below said threshold value.

The radio quality criteria might be set by an entity in the communications network for example said base station. The radio quality criteria might be provided as an offset relative to a default radio quality criteria.

The radio quality criteria might be set dependent on an identity or type of at least one of any data to be sent an application generating the data said communications device said communications network a base station the cell in which the communications device is located a routing area in which the communications device is located a tracking area in which the communications device is located and a location area in which the communications device is located or a list comprising said identity or type.

The communications device might further comprise means for configuring delayed transmission of data. In this case the configuring means might be operable to configure the or a predetermined maximum delay and or said radio quality criteria using at least one of Non Access Stratum NAS signalling Radio Resource Control RRC signalling System Information broadcast Open Mobile Alliance Device Management OMA DM signalling Universal Subscriber Identity Module Over the Air USIM OTA signalling and an Application Programming Interface API signalling.

The communications device might further comprise means for updating said radio quality criteria in the event of a change of at least one of a location area LA a routing area RA a tracking area TA and a cell serving said communications device to an area and or cell having a different radio quality criteria.

The communications device might further comprise means for identifying whether said data should be sent without delay wherein said means for transmitting said data might be operable to transmit any data without delay that has been so identified regardless of whether said determining means has determined that said quality of radio signals does not meet said required radio quality criteria. In this case the means for identifying whether said data should be sent without delay might be operable to identify at least one of low latency data high priority data and or emergency data as data that should be sent without delay.

The communications device might further comprise means for identifying whether said data may be sent with delay wherein said means for transmitting said data might be operable to transmit any data without delay that has been so identified only if said determining means has determined that said quality of radio signals meets said required radio quality criteria. In this case the means for identifying whether said data may be sent with delay might be operable to identify at least one of high latency data low priority data and or synchronisation data as data that may be sent with delay.

The communications might be at least one of a machine type communications MTC device a machine to machine M2M communications device and a mobile telephone.

In another aspect the invention also provides a base station of a communications network the base station comprising means for operating a cell for communication with a communications device according to any preceding aspect means for providing to said communications device information identifying a or the predetermined maximum delay and or said radio quality criteria and means for receiving from said communications device said data when transmitted by said communications device.

The invention also provides corresponding methods and a system comprising the above communications device and the above base station.

A further aspect of the present invention provides a computer program product comprising computer implementable instructions for causing a programmable computer device to become configured as a communications device or the base station as described above. The computer software products may be provided on a carrier signal or on a recording medium such as a CD DVD or the like.

Embodiments of the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which 

According to each exemplary aspect of the present invention stated above it is possible to provide a communications device and a method thereby a base station and a method thereby a system and a computer program for reducing battery consumption.

The base stations are connected to the core network via an S1 interface and to each other via an X2 interface not shown . The core network includes a gateway for connecting to other networks such as the Internet and or to servers hosted outside the core network .

A mobility management entity MME is the network node responsible for keeping track of the locations of the mobile communication devices e.g. mobile telephones and the MTC device within the communications network . In particular the MME stores an identifier of the mobile communication devices last known cell or tracking area so that they can be notified when there is an incoming voice or data call for them and that a communication path is set up via the base station currently serving the particular mobile communication device.

A home subscriber server HSS stores subscription related information and control parameters specific for each communications device e.g. the MTC device and the mobile telephones . The HSS also stores information identifying which ones of the communications devices are configured as machine type communication devices e.g. MTC device or mobile telephone when it is running an MTC client and provides this information to the other network entities when needed.

In the following examples the MTC device connects to the network at specific intervals and or whenever one of its application needs to communicate with the network for sending data to a remote server or another communications device . The operation of the MTC device of this embodiment is automated and capable of operating essentially autonomously. It will be appreciated however that the MTC device may perform certain activities based on inputs received from a local or a remote user e.g. remote re configuration of measurement criteria or out of schedule measurement performance and or reporting . In addition the MTC device may be operated by a user in a similar manner as a mobile telephone .

Whilst the MTC device may acquire data e.g. results of measurements in a continuous periodic or intermittent manner however the MTC device communicates during specific communication rounds that occur at regular or semi regular intervals and sends any data acquired during a particular interval to the remote server in a batch during a subsequent communication round. The transceiver of the MTC device is configured to automatically or upon instructions by the base station enter a low power mode in which the transmitter may be switched off completely or operating at low power during the intervals between consecutive communication rounds.

Further in this embodiment if the radio conditions in the vicinity of the MTC device do not meet a predefined quality requirement the MTC device is beneficially able to delay transmission of data until the radio conditions improve sufficiently to meet the predefined quality requirement or until the a predetermined maximum allowed delay has been reached.

Specifically when the MTC device is due to transmit data the MTC device only performs the transmission immediately if the radio quality as represented by a measured signal quality parameter meets a predefined signal quality requirement. If the radio quality as represented by the measured signal quality parameter does not meet the predefined signal quality requirement then the MTC device starts a transmission delay timer. If the MTC device detects that the signal quality parameter has met the predefined signal quality requirement before the delay time has reached the maximum allowed delay then the MTC device i.e. before the delay timer expires transmits the measurement data. Otherwise the MTC device starts transmitting when the delay time has reached the maximum allowed delay time. Whilst the delay timer is running the MTC device beneficially continues to buffer any further data that it acquires for transmission when the delay timer expires or radio quality has improved sufficiently.

This approach beneficially allows the MTC device improved flexibility to transmit data at a time at which a lower transmission power can be used because prevailing radio conditions have improved e.g. as a result of the MTC device moving closer to a base station or other receiver or as a result of a change in the local environmental conditions .

For example in when the MTC device is located at its initial position the MTC device at the start of arrow A it experiences a low radio quality and therefore does not transmit any data immediately but instead starts the transmission delay timer. If before the delay time reaches its maximum allowed value the MTC device moves to a new position as indicated by arrow A in which radio quality is better in this case because of a closer proximity to base station then the MTC device transmits any data. Otherwise data transmission does not start until the delay timer expires.

One way in which signal quality can be assessed in this embodiment will now be described in more detail by way of example only.

By way of back ground when a transmitter e.g. the MTC device transmits radio signals the received power P at a receiver of the signals e.g. base station is a function of distance separation d between the transmitter and the receiver and is calculated as 

where Pis the transmitter power Gand Gare the transmitter and receiver antenna gains respectively is the wavelength and L is the remaining system losses excluding propagation . That is

That is that the transmit power required to provide a constant received power level at the receiver increases with the distance between the transmitter and receiver.

Apart from the relative distance between the transmitter and the receiver attenuation of the signal might also be caused by other factors interferers such as obstruction reflection diffraction and scattering by the earth vegetation buildings vehicles etc. The received signal quality E I carrier energy interference level or E N average energy of a bit signal noise spectral density is a function of system design topology and the number of active interferers in the system and will be limited to a maximum value by system design and capacity planning and implementation.

The MTC device of this embodiment is operable to measure a signal quality parameter that correlates strongly with the distance between the transmitter and the receiver and which varies with attenuation of the signal caused by other factors. In this embodiment which relates to an MTC device operating in an E UTRAN based system the MTC device measures signal quality parameters comprising a Reference Signal Received Power RSRP and or a Reference Signal Received Quality RSRQ . The MTC device compares at least one of these signal quality parameters with a respective signal quality threshold and if the respective threshold is exceeded the requirement for transmitting the measurement data is deemed to have been met.

It will be appreciated that if the MTC device were operating in another system a different signal quality parameter may be used e.g. received signal code power RSCP E Nor E Ifor UTRAN or receiver level RXLEV and receiver quality RXQUAL for GSM .

The controller is configured to control overall operation of the MTC device by in this example program instructions or software instructions stored within memory . As shown these software instructions include among other things an operating system a communications control module an MTC configuration module a signal quality determination module a timer module and a reporting module .

The communications control module is operable to control the communication between the MTC device and other communications devices such as other MTC devices mobile telephones or the base station .

The MTC configuration module is operable to configure the operation of the MTC device e.g. based on control data received from the base station or another network element . In particular the MTC configuration module configures the appropriate values of the transmission delay timer and the signal quality threshold by taking into account control parameters stored in the memory and or obtained from the network.

The signal quality determination module is operable to measure the cellular network signal levels and to determine whether signal quality is sufficient to send receive data to other communication devices e.g. the base station . Signal quality is determined to be sufficient when it meets or exceeds the signal quality threshold value configured by the MTC configuration module .

The timer module is operable to configure and start the appropriate delay transmission timer when the MTC device is scheduled or triggered to transmit data.

The reporting module is operable to generate and send measurement and or other data to a remote communication device in or connected to the core network another machine or user equipment e.g. a mobile telephone . The reporting module is connected to the signal quality determination module and the timer module to determine when to send data.

The communications control module is operable to control the communication between the base station and the MTC devices the mobile telephones and other network entities that are connected to the base station . The communications control module also controls the separate flows of downlink user traffic and control data to be transmitted to the communications devices associated with this base station including for example control data for managing operation of the MTC devices and or the mobile telephones .

The MTC configuration module is operable to provide the appropriate values of the transmission delay tinier and the signal quality threshold to the MTC device . The values can be provided to each MTC device using a dedicated radio connection e.g. if the values are specific to the MTC device or can be broadcast e.g. as part of system information in which case the values may be applicable to all devices served by the cell s of the base station or may be provided with information identifying a specific device or a group of devices to which the values apply. The MTC configuration module might obtain at least part of these values from another network entity such as the MME and or the HSS .

In the above description the MTC device and the base station are described for ease of understanding as having a number of discrete modules such as the communications control modules and the MTC configuration modules . Whilst these modules may be provided in this way for certain applications for example where an existing system has been modified to implement the invention in other applications for example in systems designed with the inventive features in mind from the outset these modules may be built into the overall operating system or code and so these modules may not be discernible as discrete entities. These modules may also be implemented in software hardware firmware or a mix of these.

A more detailed description will now be given with reference to of the scenario discussed above where an MTC device optimises its battery consumption required for transmitting data to a remote server.

Initially as shown in step s the MTC configuration module configures the values of the transmission delay timer and the signal quality threshold for the MTC device . The values might be retrieved from the memory or obtained from the network either at start up location update or cell reselection of the MTC device . The values might be specific to this MTC device and or might comprise values that are specific for the current cell and or area that the MTC device is located in. Furthermore in the absence of a network provided value the MTC configuration module might use a default value for either of the transmission delay timer and the signal quality threshold.

Next in step s the reporting module indicates that the MTC device needs to communicate with the network e.g. to send data such as measurement results synchronisation data or the like . At this phase the transceiver circuit of the MTC device is currently switched off or is operating in a low power mode.

Therefore before powering up the transceiver circuit the signal quality determination module checks whether or not the current signal conditions are favourable for establishing radio communication with the base station without wasting battery power. Specifically the signal quality determination module compares the current value of the measured signal quality to the configured signal quality threshold. If the measured signal quality meets or exceeds the configured threshold the MTC device proceeds to step s and transmits data via base station .

If however the signal quality determination module determines that the current signal conditions are not favourable i.e. the measured signal quality is below the configured threshold in step s it informs the timer module to start the transmission delay timer and continues monitoring the signal quality.

In step s the signal quality determination module checks again whether the signal quality has improved and now meets or exceeds the configured threshold. If the signal quality determination module determines that the threshold is met or exceeded the MTC device proceeds to step s and transmits data via base station .

If however the signal quality determination module determines that the current signal conditions are not favourable the MTC device proceeds to step s in which it checks whether or not the transmission delay timer has expired. If the transmission delay timer has expired the MTC device starts transmitting data s without further delay.

When in step s the signal quality determination module performs the next signal measurements the MTC device returns to step s. Steps s to s are repeated until either expiry of the transmission delay timer or until the signal conditions meet exceed the configured threshold. After step s i.e. after all data has been transmitted the transceiver circuit goes into a low power mode or is switched off completely.

The above process advantageously reduces battery consumption of the MTC device and also reduces co channel interference due transmissions performed only when favourable signal conditions are detected hence at relatively low power . This in turn might also increase the overall system capacity.

Specifically in this embodiment if the MTC device determines that the signal quality is getting worse over time rather than improving whilst the transmission delay timer is running then the MTC device transmits the data immediately i.e. as soon as signal quality deterioration is determined in order to avoid any further worsening of the link attenuation and corresponding increase in transmit power.

However in this example if data transmission has still not started after step s or s the signal quality determination module performs an additional check before waiting for the next measurement at step s to see whether the current unfavourable signal conditions have actually become worse since the previous signal measurement s .

Therefore in step s the signal quality determination module checks whether the signal quality is reducing over time e.g. compared to the last measurement alone or to an average of a number of immediately preceding measurements . If the signal quality determination module determines that signal conditions have become worse the MTC device proceeds to step s and starts transmitting data to the remote server whilst it is still able to communicate with the base station before the MTC device moved even further away from it .

However if the signal quality determination module determines that the signal quality has not gotten worse compared to the previous measurement s i.e. the measured signal quality has remained the same or improved but has not yet met the threshold the MTC device proceeds to step s and awaits the next signal measurement.

Steps s to s are repeated until any one of the conditions to transmit data are met. After step s i.e. after all data has been transmitted to the remote server the transceiver circuit goes into a low power mode or it is switched off completely.

This alternative advantageously prevents the MTC device delaying transmissions too long in the event when the signal conditions experienced by the MTC device are not improving whilst the transmission delay timer is running.

As explained above different cells e.g. Cell and Cell shown in might have different associated transmission delay timers and or signal quality threshold values. Therefore this example beneficially provides for situations in which the MTC device performs a cell reselection whilst the transmission delay timer is still running and different values of timers signal quality threshold are applicable in the new cell or area that the new cell belongs to .

In this example however if the conditions to transmit data are still not met in step s the MTC device also determines in step s whether a cell reselection has occurred since the previous signal measurement. This can be determined by for example the signal quality determination module comparing the current cell identifier which is obtained e.g. during the signal measurements with the cell identifier for the immediately preceding signal measurement which might be retrieved from memory .

If the signal quality determination module determines that cell reselection has not been performed the MTC device proceeds to step s in which the MTC device awaits performance of the next signal measurement before returning to step s as described previously with reference to .

However if in step s the signal quality determination module determines that a cell reselection has been performed since the last signal measurement e.g. due to movement of the MTC device or changes in signal propagation characteristics in the communications network etc. the MTC device proceeds to step s to verify whether or not it should keep using the same transmission delay timer for the new cell.

If the MTC device determines in step s that the transmission delay timer for the new cell is the same as for the previous cell it proceeds to step s in which the signal quality determination module verifies whether the signal quality threshold value needs to be reset for the new cell and modifies the signal quality threshold value accordingly if necessary . The timer module maintains the current already running transmission delay timer and the MTC device proceeds to step s in which it awaits performance of the next signal measurement before returning to step s.

If however the MTC device determines in step s that the transmission delay time for the new cell is not the same as for the previous cell it proceeds to step s in which it determines whether the transmission delay time for the new cell is higher than for the previous cell. If the MTC device determines that the new transmission delay time is higher it then proceeds to step s in which its timer module continues the timer based on a new delay time value corresponding to that of the new cell e.g. by increasing the remaining delay time based on the difference between the delay time values of the previous cell and new cell or by starting a new timer that is adjusted with any time elapsed since the start of the previous timer . In step s the signal quality determination module also verifies whether the signal quality threshold value also needs to be reset for the new cell and modifies the signal quality threshold value accordingly if necessary . After this the MTC device proceeds to step s in which it awaits performance of the next signal measurement before returning to step s.

If in step s the MTC device determines that the new transmission delay timer value is not higher than the current timer it then proceeds to step s in which it also checks whether the delay measured by timer module has already reached or exceeded the new transmission delay value associated with the new cell. If the new timer value has been reached or exceeded i.e. the timer for the new cell would have expired the MTC device proceeds to step s and starts transmitting data to the remote server immediately.

If in step s the timer module indicates that the current delay has not reached the new transmission delay time i.e. the timer for the new cell would not have expired then the MTC device proceeds to step s in which the timer module applies the new transmission delay time value e.g. by decreasing the remaining delay time based on the difference between the delay time values of the previous cell and new cells or by starting a new timer that is adjusted with any time elapsed since the start of the previous timer . In step s the signal quality determination module also verifies whether the signal quality threshold value also needs to be reset for the new cell and modifies the signal quality threshold value accordingly if necessary . After this the MTC device proceeds to step s in which it awaits performance of the next signal measurement before returning to step s.

Steps s to s are repeated until any one of the conditions to transmit data are met. After step s i.e. after all data has been transmitted to the remote server the transceiver circuit goes into a low power mode or it is switched off completely.

This alternative allows the MTC device to update the transmission delay timer and the signal quality threshold values even after a cell reselection has been performed. This will advantageously prevent the MTC device using incorrect values e.g. short timer optimised for urban areas small cells when the MTC device has already moved to a rural area having larger cells and thus ensures that data transmissions occur at or close to an optimum power level for the given cell.

In general the parameters of signal quality threshold and transmission delay timer might be provided to the MTC device by either 

The MTC device can be configured for transmission delay timer and signal quality threshold features use as per 3GPP TS 24.368 in case OMA DM is used or as per 3GPP TS 31.102 when USIM OTA is used. The contents of these 3GPP specifications are included herein by reference.

In this example as shown in step s the MTC device is initially configured either as a default factory configuration or as an application specific setting to use the delayed transmission feature. At this phase the MTC device might use default values for either of the delay transmission timer and the signal quality threshold.

Next in step s the MTC device connects to a communications network and therefore sends to a corresponding NAS entity in the network an appropriate Non Access Stratum message e.g. at least one of an Attach request a Tracking Area Update request a Routing Area Update Request and a Location Area Update request message. The NAS entity for example might be an MME for LTE or a Serving GPRS Support Node for UTRAN or the like.

The network responds in step s by sending to the MTC device an appropriate NAS message i.e. at least one of an Attach accept a Tracking Area Update accept a Routing Area Update accept and a Location Area Update accept message. The NAS response message also includes the currently used values of the delay transmission timer and or the signal quality threshold.

In step s the MTC device via its timer module and or signal quality determination module applies the received delay transmission timer and or signal quality threshold values and uses them until a subsequent update is obtained e.g. when the MTC device performs a subsequent cell reselection .

In this example as shown in step s the MTC device is initially configured either as a default factory configuration or as an application specific setting to use the delayed transmission feature. At this phase the MTC device might use default values for either of the delay transmission timer and the signal quality threshold.

Next in step s the MTC device obtains from base station the current values of the delay transmission timer and or the signal quality threshold e.g. for the cell s of this base station using the RRC layer. Step s of this example comprises the MTC device listening to system information broadcast by the RRC layer of the base station . However other type of RRC layer signalling might be used in particular a request response type of RRC signalling communication similar to the NAS messages described with respect to . In this case the values of the delay transmission timer and or the signal quality threshold might be included in an information element within the response message sent from the base station to the MTC device .

Finally in step s the MTC device via its timer module and or signal quality determination module applies the obtained delay transmission timer and or signal quality threshold values and uses them until a subsequent updated is obtained e.g. when the MTC device performs a subsequent cell reselection .

Detailed embodiments have been described above. As those skilled in the art will appreciate a number of modifications and alternatives can be made to the above embodiments whilst still benefiting from the inventions embodied therein. By way of illustration only a number of these alternatives and modifications will now be described.

Different applications for example have different grade of service requirements in terms of latency of communication with the network. The above alternatives are applicable to at least those applications that are delay tolerant and mobile. Example use cases include 

In contrast applications that are not delay tolerant require low latency might not use the above alternatives. In particular applications for emergency use can be configured not to use this feature or to use a delay time of zero. Examples of applications requiring low latency include vehicle collision detection systems and payment systems for which delaying transmission until better coverage may not be beneficial.

The transmission delay timer and or signal quality threshold based feature may be enabled by an author of an application running on the MTC device e.g. an app on mobile telephone or by a service provider. The application author may request enablement of the feature and or specific timer threshold values through an application programming interface API call to a device platform or a network service platform on a remote server. The service provider may request enablement of the feature and or specific timer threshold values through a network service platform API for specific application types and or terminal types.

If the MTC device supports the execution of multiple applications then usage of the transmission delay timer and or signal quality threshold feature may be configured either universally across all applications or individually for each application or group of applications.

The values of the transmission delay timer and or the signal quality threshold may be different depending on the type of the service e.g. a delay time of zero for emergency alerts and a longer delay time for non critical data .

It will be appreciated that the MTC device might be configured to transmit any data as soon as its buffer memory becomes full regardless of the signal quality or whether the delay timer has expired.

The delay timer may be a countdown timer adapted to expire on reaching zero or some other minimum value or a count up timer adapted to expire when a maximum value is reached.

It will be appreciated that where the delay time changes during cell reselection or at other times the currently running timer may not itself be modified to reflect this. For example a new timer may be started to reflect the change in delay time and the old timer ignored for the purposes of determining when to send data. Or where the modified delay time is longer than the previous delay time a new timer may be started on expiry of the old timer and data only sent when both timers have expired to reflect the increase in delay time. Keeping the old timer and possibly threshold values may be particularly beneficial in the case of a device moving back and forth between two or more cells.

It will be appreciated that whilst embodiments of the invention have been described with particular reference to machine type data transmissions e.g. transmission of data acquired during measurement events and the like the data sent may comprise any form of data depending on the application in which the communications device is being used. For example the above embodiments may be applicable for transmitting other data such as user data backup data synchronisation data diagnostic data monitoring data usage statistics error data and or the like.

In the above embodiments the MTC device operating in an E UTRAN based system measures RSRP and or RSRQ and compares at least one of these signal quality parameters with a respective signal quality threshold. However it will be appreciated that any other type of measurement indicative of radio signal quality may be performed. In this case the signal quality threshold may be specified and used in a different manner.

The signal quality threshold may be controlled such that the network can manage the approximate distance from the base station at which the devices transmit in order to reduce co channel interference onto adjacent cells and thereby provide increased system capacity. Practically the effective cell size may be calculated by reference to the radio planning coverage maps. Radio system planners may for example make a judgement on the effective cell size for devices operating under this scheme and trade off the delay of transmission and likely terminal velocities.

It may be possible for the MTC device to apply an offset to a reference cell measurement. For example if radio quality is measured in dBm i.e. a power ratio expressed in decibels dB of the measured power referenced to one milliwatt and the value of cell edge is chosen to be between approximately 95 dBm e.g. in case of macro cells and approximately 80 dBm e.g. in case of small cells then the signal quality threshold value might be set around 50 to 60 dBm i.e. around 20 dB to 30 dB higher that the cell edge planning figure.

In order to reduce congestion arising from multiple MTC devices that have similar or identical reporting triggers reporting at the same time the value of the transmission delay timer and or the signal quality threshold can be different for each MTC device.

One variation is particularly useful for scenarios involving different cell sizes. The effective cell size s for a base station is a function of the operating parameters of the base station such as radio power and frequency as well as other radio planning parameters. By changing transmission power and or applying directional antennas a base station is able to adapt the size and shape of its cell s . Urban areas for example have generally smaller physical cells than rural areas because of network planning for high population density and typically larger signal attenuation due to buildings and other man made objects. Furthermore in urban areas there are more likely to be largely overlapping and or stacked cells macro cell to femto cell compared to rural areas where cells belonging to the came network tend to have minimal overlap. Accordingly due to the relatively small cell sizes in an urban area the MTC device is likely to have a higher probability of going above the signal quality threshold before the expiry of the transmission delay timer if travelling at a constant speed compared to e.g. large cells found in rural areas. Therefore the operator of the communications network may be able to set the transmission delay timer and or signal quality threshold for the MTC device to take account of the different cell sizes in the network e.g. having longer delays for larger cells and smaller delays for smaller cells .

The values of delay transmission timer and or the signal quality threshold may therefore be specific to a particular PLMN RA LA TA RA list LA list TA list a cell or a mobile MTC terminal or class type of terminal. Additionally they may be provided as an absolute value or as relative values e.g. offsets from a default value such as a cell or network specific default . In the case of a cell resection occurring whilst the transmission delay timer is still running e.g. as described with reference to different behaviour may be followed depending on the transmission delay timer and signal quality threshold parameters applied by the MTC device 

 1 For values of delay time and or quality threshold fixed for whole PLMN specified per device or device category and or fixed in the device e.g. by a device specific application then no specific action needs to be taken for cell reselection as the values are the same in the new cell and the transmission delay timer can continue after cell reselection as normal.

 2 For values of delay time and or quality threshold specified per cell RA or LA as a fixed value then the procedure of is particularly applicable.

 3 For values of delay time and or quality threshold specified per cell RA or LA as an offset then at cell re selection the new cell might have a different parameter to the previous cell and so the timer and or threshold value may need to be reconstituted based on a cell specific offset and or cell specific default value. Once the timer value is reconstituted then the procedure of is also applicable.

Nevertheless specifying the value s per cell routing area location area or tracking area is particularly advantageous.

The embodiment described with reference uses at least one of an Attach accept a Tracking Area Update accept a Routing Area Update accept and a Location Area Update accept message to provide the values of the transmission delay timer and or signal quality threshold for the MTC device. However it will be appreciated that any other NAS message and or signal existing or new may be used instead. For example a dedicated transmission delay timer NAS message and or a dedicated signal quality threshold NAS message might be used between the NAS entity and the MTC device.

In the above description an MME and an SGSN were given as two example NAS entities. However it will be appreciated that any other NAS capable communications entities within or coupled to the core network may be used to communicate the values of the transmission delay timer and or signal quality threshold to the MTC device. The NAS entity providing these values may be implemented as a standalone entity e.g. a transmission delay time server and or a signal quality threshold server entity or may be implemented as part of any other network entity.

Smartphones e.g. mobile telephones in that are capable of running multiple applications in parallel might have applications that are delay tolerant and applications that are not delay tolerant low latency applications . In this case low latency applications ignore the transmission delay timer and signal quality threshold parameters or sets the delay time to or near to zero whereas delay tolerant applications take advantage of the delayed transmission until better coverage functionality. The terminal in this example is provided with the capability to manage applications that use the feature of delayed transmission until better coverage and those that do not. For example browser and online games may need immediate network service because of the real time nature of the user interaction and may therefore not use the delayed transmission until better coverage . On the other hand cloud backup of mobile device media and mail synchronisation are delay tolerant applications and hence may use the delayed transmission until better coverage feature.

As discuss above therefore a system implementing the delayed transmission until better coverage feature may use multiple signal quality thresholds either for an individual mobile device or across the devices in the network or at least a part of a network e.g. in a cell or RA. In the case of multiple thresholds or timer values being used in a mobile terminal then this may be used for example for different priorities of information. For the case of different thresholds or timer values for different devices in a system or part of the system then this may be used to provide different times in which a mobile device retries to transmit data and in so doing spread the transmissions across the set of mobile devices in time in order to spread network load.

Accordingly one benefit of the embodiments described above may be to spread the network load more evenly for devices in which transmission events are triggered at the same similar time thereby reducing congestion.

In the above embodiments the MTC devices are automated measuring devices. It will be appreciated that the above embodiments might be implemented using other devices than automated equipment such as for example mobile telephones personal digital assistants laptop computers web browsers e book readers etc.

In the above embodiments a 3GPP radio communications radio access technology is used. However any other radio communications technology i.e. WLAN Wi Fi WiMAX Bluetooth etc. can be used for managing transmissions of MTC devices in accordance with the above embodiments. The above embodiments are also applicable to non mobile or generally stationary user equipment.

Some examples of machine type communication applications are listed in the following table source 3GPP TS 22.368 Annex B . This list is not exhaustive and is intended to be indicative of the scope of machine type communication applications.

In the above description the MTC device and the base station are described for ease of understanding as having a number of discrete functional components or modules. Whilst these modules may be provided in this way for certain applications for example where an existing system has been modified to implement the invention in other applications for example in systems designed with the inventive features in mind from the outset these modules may be built into the overall operating system or code and so these modules may not be discernible as discrete entities.

In the above embodiments a number of software modules were described. As those skilled in the art will appreciate the software modules may be provided in compiled or un compiled form and may be supplied to the MTC device to the base station or to the mobile telephone as a signal over a computer network or on a recording medium. Further the functionality performed by part or all of this software may be performed using one or more dedicated hardware circuits. However the use of software modules is preferred as it facilitates the updating of the MTC device or the mobile telephone having an MTC application the base station in order to update their functionalities.

Various other modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art and will not be described in further detail here.

This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from UK Patent Application No. GB1216927.2 filed on Sep. 21 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

