---

title: Modulation scheme determination through use of multiple sensors
abstract: Various embodiments associated with multiple signal editions is described. A plurality of sensors can be deployed in an environment. These sensors can be used to capture a signal of interest (SOI). However, when the signal is weak or difficult to sense, what an individual sensor captures may be of little value. Therefore, multiple sensors can be used together to capture the signal (e.g., different editions of the SOI). Further, it is possible that the demodulation scheme of the signal is not known, such as when the signal is from an unknown network (e.g., a network of an enemy). A mathematical operation can be performed upon signal editions such that a result does not include noise. This result can be used in determining the demodulation scheme of the signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08917802&OS=08917802&RS=08917802
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08917802
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130220
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

In a combat environment different forces can broadcast different signals. In a singular environment enemy combatants can each broadcast different signals. It may be possible for one combatant to intercept the signal of another combatant. The intercepting combatant may not know the modulation scheme of an intercepted signal. Without the modulation scheme it may be difficult to put the intercepted signal to use.

A system comprising a processor and a non transitory computer readable medium is described. The non transitory computer readable medium is communicatively coupled to the processor and stores computer executable components to facilitate operation of components. The components comprise a calculation component configured to perform a mathematical operation upon a first signal edition and a second signal edition to produce a mathematical result where performance of the mathematical operation eliminates uncorrelated noise of the first signal edition and the second signal edition through correlation of the first signal edition and the second signal edition where the first signal edition and the second signal edition are different editions of a signal where the first signal edition is collected by a first sensor where the second signal edition is collected by a second sensor and where the first sensor and second sensor are different sensors. The components also comprise a determination component configured to make a determination on a modulation scheme for the signal based at least in part on the mathematical result where the modulation scheme is employed to demodulate the signal.

In addition a system comprising a determination component a demodulation component and a processor is described. The determination component makes a determination on a modulation scheme of a signal based at least in part on a mathematical result derived from performance of a mathematical operation upon the signal where the signal is obtained from a first receiver and a second receiver and where performance of the mathematical operation produces the mathematical result such that the mathematical result is void of noise. The demodulation component demodulates the signal through use of the modulation scheme where the signal after demodulation is outputted. The processor executes at least one instruction associated with the determination component or the demodulation component.

Further a non transitory computer readable medium configured to store computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method is described. The method comprises calculating a moment for a first signal edition and a second signal edition where the moment is calculated through use of a product from multiplying at least a first edition of a signal with a second edition of the signal where the first edition of the signal is collected by a first sensor where the second edition of the signal is collected by a second sensor where the first sensor and the second sensor are different sensors and where the first edition of the signal and the second edition of the signal are non identical when collected. The method also comprises identifying a constellation of the signal through use of the moment matching the constellation of the signal with a constellation of a known signal establishing a modulation scheme associated with the known signal and using the modulation scheme associated with the known signal to demodulate the signal.

Various sensors e.g. low cost sensors can be used in distributed locations for sensing and classifying weak signals. Automatic modulation classification AMC of communication signals is applicable for military applications cognitive radio applications etc. The concept of AMC is to classify an unknown modulation scheme by comparing it to hypothetical schemes. Use of higher order statistics HOS is a technique that can be employed in AMC. However the conventional HOS AMC uses knowledge of the noise power. Thus it can be beneficial to generate HOS using distributed signal copies so that the noises at distributed sensors are eliminated in HOS calculation to obtain robust features for reliable signal exploitation.

Dynamic spectrum access adaptive modulation and low power transmission can be desired capabilities of cognitive radios which can freely hop through available spectrum and nodes modify transmission characteristics and waveforms and exploit opportunities of using the spectrum and power effectively. Sensing the agile signal of interest SOI in a dynamic environment with unpredictable adaptations and low transmitting power can occur.

In a non cooperative communication environment e.g. no handshaking between transmitters and receivers a transmitting signal and communication channels are usually not favorable to an ad hoc receiver or sensing unit and the received signal at the sensor could be weak and distorted so that signal sensing and classification becomes extremely difficult and unreliable. This can be less than ideal in a military police or other environment where the communication channels are for an enemy force e.g. hostage takers while the ad hoc receiver is of a friendly force e.g. police force .

To address the sensing and classification bottleneck a sensor network can be evaluated. A network centric framework should build interfaces for connecting distributed devices as well as search for unknown dimensions for new capabilities. Two approaches that can be used are the fusion of local signal decisions and the central decision of the fused signals. The former can use expensive distributed processors to make decisions locally and the latter combines multiple signal copies from less expensive sensors to make a central decision. A central decision modulation classification method can be used based on HOS of distributed signal copies which gives more robust and accurate estimation and classification of SOI comparing with the performance using an individual signal copy alone.

The fusion center may be located at the same location as a sensor. The fusion center can send periodic requests to L distributed sensors R R . . . and Rto acquire a weak SOI. Upon the reception of the request the distributed sensors take short time duration snapshots of the SOI. The distributed sensors can provide very limited signal processing capabilities such as RF reception and transmission frequency tuning filtering and digitization. Thus sensors may be asynchronous and non cooperative to one another and are used for communicating with or relaying distributed snapshots to the fusion center. Snapshots are very short and are taken periodically and therefore there can be ample time between any two snapshots for signal processing and analysis. This operation can be conducted in real time.

Approaches for central decision signal sensing and classification can use and or be based on multiple antenna based modulation classification and use synchronous sensors for coherent signal combining. However practically the distributed signal copies will likely not be perfectly synchronous due to the unknown channels and Doppler effect between the SOI and the distributed sensors. In an asynchronous sensor scenario magnitudes phases frequencies and clocks among sensors can be different. Consequently there exist the relative phase offset RPO induced by different Local Oscillators LOs channels and filters relative time offset RTO induced by different propagation paths and sampling clocks and the relative frequency offset RFO induced by different LOs and the Doppler effect before combining the signal copies coherently. The fusion center can be designed to have adequate signal processing power and time to estimate analyze and process data delivered by various sensors to generate an enhanced signal for detection classification and blind demodulation.

If the sensors are dumb sensors then the sensors can be configured to not make local decisions but store short snapshots r t i 2 3 . . . L as time stamped data packets and forward them to the fusion center for processing. The packets can be transmitted to the fusion center using a communication method. Without loss of generality Ris assumed to be the reference sensor R R . . . and Rare compared to Rfor the relative magnitude time frequency and phase offsets. It can be assumed in this dumb sensor example that the channels have no noticeable change within a very short observation time period T. The signal packets received at the fusion center can be described as 1 where i 1 2 . . . L and are RFO and RTO respectively and 1 and 0 are the relative magnitude offset RMO and RPO which aspects disclosed herein can be practiced without knowing and n N 0 i 1 2 . . . L is i.i.d. circularly symmetric complex additive white Gaussian noise AWGN . Relative offsets are referring to 2 where 3 is the frequency down converted copy of the SOI observed at r a and are gain frequency and phase between the transmitter and the sensor R respectively 

When using simple sensors the offsets among sensors may not be able to be estimated locally and the sensors in the network may not be synchronous. The fusion center collects asynchronous signal copies and compensates them using a post synchronization method. After and are estimated and removed the signals can be down converted to 5 where w n is the down converted AWGN.

The HOS used in the existing AMC approaches include moments cyclic moments cumulants and cyclic cumulants. The norder moments of a single signal copy xis defined as

The same classification method can be applied to other features including cumulants cyclic moments and cyclic cumulants.

The selected modulation scheme can be used to demodulate the SOI if desired. The M pre processed signal copies are fused to one demodulated signal. Various existing fusion methods can be used. The signals can either be fused in the front and then demodulated or be demodulated separately first and then fused together. The advantage to use the distributed signal copies for calculating HOS features is that the additive noises at the distributed sensors are uncorrelated which are eliminated in the HOS calculation. The choice of the type and order of HOS is based on the applications and the implementation of the HOS is flexible.

A plurality of sensors can be deployed in an environment. These sensors can be used to capture the SOI. However when the signal is weak or difficult to sense what an individual sensor captures may be of little value. Therefore multiple sensors can be used together to capture the signal e.g. different editions of the SOI . Further it is possible that the demodulation scheme of the signal is not known such as when the signal is from an unknown network e.g. a network of an enemy . A mathematical operation can be performed upon signal editions such that a result does not include noise. This result can be used in determining the demodulation scheme of the signal.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single logical component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

In one embodiment the mathematical operation comprises summation of a product from multiplication of the first edition of the signal with the second edition of the signal. In one embodiment this can include calculating a moment thorough use of the first edition of the signal and a second edition of the signal e.g. to produce a second order moment .

In one embodiment the first edition of the signal is an edition of the signal with a first noise and the second edition of the signal is an edition of the signal with a second noise. A component can produce the mathematical result such that the first noise and second noise are not represented in the mathematical result. The first edition of the signal and the second edition of the signal can be fused into the signal and then be demodulated or the first edition and second edition can be individually demodulated and then fused into the signal.

The sensor of can receive the first edition of the signal while the sensor of can receive the second edition of the signal. These signal editions can be fused together into a common signal upon which the mathematical operation is performed. In one embodiment the fusion component e.g. that includes the fusion center can fuse the signal editions together after the mathematical operation is performed on the signal editions. Therefore fusion can occur at various times such as before the modulation scheme is determined or after.

When the signal editions are received by the receivers the signal editions can be noisy and thus difficult to use. The mathematical operation can be performed on the signal editions e.g. before fusion together or after fusion together . The mathematical operation can function such that a result is without noise. In one example when the mathematical operation comprises summation of a product from multiplication of the first edition of the signal with the second edition of the signal noise is removed from the result of the operation since noise is random and thus commonly is not repeated.

In one embodiment the constellation component determines a constellation of the signal such as cross QAM32. A database can be accessed that retains records of known signals as well as constellations of those known signals. The match component can access the database and compare the constellation of the signal against constellations of the known signals. A constellation of a known signal with a highest match to the constellation of the signal can be designated as the matching signal. In the example with cross QAM32 the database can include a known signal that has a constellation of cross QAM32. The classification component identifies a classification of the matching signal and applies that classification to the signal e.g. the classification corresponds to a modulation scheme a signal classified as cross QAM32 has a modulation scheme of 32 . The determination component can determine a demodulation scheme associated with signals of that classification and in turn select the demodulation scheme for the signal. The demodulation component can then demodulate the signal and output the signal after demodulation.

In one embodiment the synchronization component comprises a find component configured to find an alignment point between the first signal edition and the second signal edition. The synchronization component can also comprise an alignment component configured to use the alignment point to align the first signal edition and the second signal edition where the alignment point is a point of greatest alignment between the first signal edition and the second signal edition. Alignment of the first signal edition and the second signal edition can be considered synchronization. While discussed as being part of the synchronization component the find component and the alignment component can configure to not be part of the synchronization component .

In one embodiment a first Fourier transform is applied to the first signal edition to produce a first transform result and a second Fourier transform that may or may not be the same as the first Fourier transform is applied to the second signal edition to produce a second transform result. The magnitudes of the first transform result and second transform result are used by the find component to find the alignment point.

In one embodiment the synchronization component removes a phase offset from the first signal edition and a phase offset from the second signal edition. The synchronization component can also determine a magnitude of the first signal edition after the phase offset is removed and a magnitude of the second signal edition after the phase offset is removed. Further the synchronization component determines a correlation between the first signal edition and the second signal edition through use of the magnitude of the first signal edition and the magnitude of the second signal edition where the correlation is used to find the alignment point.

In one embodiment making the first edition determination on if the first edition of the signal is outlying comprises determining if a signal to noise ratio of the first signal edition meets a threshold value e.g. does not reach the threshold value does not exceed a threshold value surpasses a threshold value etc. where if the signal to noise ratio of the first signal edition meets the threshold value then the first signal edition is outlying. Further making the second edition determination on if the second edition of the signal is outlying can comprise determining if a signal to noise ratio of the second signal edition is below the threshold value where if the signal to noise ratio of the second signal edition is below the threshold value then the second signal edition is outlying.

