---

title: Apparatus and method for systematic control of robotic deployment and extraction
abstract: A system control apparatus and method for systematic control of (i) extraction of a vehicle from an environment, (ii) stowage of the vehicle in a modular handling and stowage system, the system having a primary module and zero or more secondary modules, wherein the secondary modules are serially, mechanically coupled to the primary module and together, and (iii) deployment of the vehicle from the module group in response to command signals, sensor signals, and status signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868238&OS=08868238&RS=08868238
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08868238
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130110
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for Governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon.

This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 737 693 filed Jan. 9 2013 by Gray et al. titled System and method for vehicle deployment extraction and stowage which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to an apparatus and method for systematic control of robotic deployment and extraction.

Conventional systematic robotic control apparatus and methods include the subject matter disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 957 850 by Anderson filed Aug. 19 2009 titled Mobile station for unmanned vehicle .

Such conventional apparatus and methods may have deficiencies such as they are generally specialized for particular applications and thus may not be appropriate for the implementation desired require extensive human interaction have limited flexibility and or fail to provide efficient modes of operation. As such conventional apparatus and methods may be unsuitable for many desired unmanned ground vehicle applications.

Thus there exists a need and an opportunity for an improved apparatus and method for systematic control of robotic deployment and extraction. Such an improved apparatus and method may overcome one or more of the deficiencies of the conventional approaches.

The present invention is directed to an apparatus and method for systematic control of robotic e.g. unmanned ground vehicles such as a small tracked robots deployment and extraction that may advantageously implemented in connection with a robot deployment extraction and stowage module group. The module group that is implemented in connection with the apparatus and method for systematic control of robotic deployment and extraction is a modular system.

The module group comprises at least one primary full function module and may include one or more secondary limited function modules. The primary module and all of the secondary modules that may be implemented together as the module group are generally electrically and mechanically coupled. Each of the secondary modules may be added or removed to grow the module group to provide multiple unmanned ground vehicle deployment extraction and stowage.

In the preferred embodiment based on the interface chosen for module to module communication and voltage drops limitations through for example Ethernet and Universal Serial Bus USB total networks the maximum size that is recommended for the module group is twenty modules. However other embodiments may provide more additional module implementation beyond twenty. As understood by one of skill in the art the present invention is generally scalable such that other vehicles and apparatuses may be deployed extracted and stowed in accordance with the present invention.

Each modular unit of the module group is marsupial that is each module provides containerized stowage of the desired conventional small tracked unmanned ground vehicle e.g. UGV robot or the like as well as electro mechanical elements to provide loading unloading and tilting of the robot. That is each unit contains a UGV and enables remote extraction and deployment. In one embodiment the modular units may be mounted to a host. When multiple modules are implemented one or more of the modules may contain a vehicle or alternatively remain empty. When implemented the host can be a manned or unmanned vehicle container wagon trailer cargo hold air craft water craft or the like which may provide air water or ground deliverability to a desired location e.g. field of action .

The module group comprises one master e.g. primary load unload store end full function etc. module e.g. unit container box etc. and may further include any number of slave e.g. secondary limited function etc. modules. Each of the primary module and the secondary modules generally provides storage for a UGV as each module comprises stowage mechanics a motor controller embedded software a UGV alignment sub system robotic positioning sensors status indicators e.g. light emitting diodes LEDs an electro mechanical UGV power on off mechanism implemented to conserve UGV battery charge that is generally remotely activated a mechanical grasp mechanism to hold and clench and rotate the robot in place and position and a linear actuator.

Each of the primary and secondary modules includes the capability to position rotate and stow the respective robot in a substantially vertical orientation thereby generally reducing or minimizing the horizontal storage space otherwise known as the footprint that is implemented to stow the robot s and potentially maximizing the number of robots that can be carried via the host or otherwise stowed.

Each adjacent module of the module group interlinks via mechanical coupling and electrical coupling. The robot s exit and enter the module group from a common point that is the master primary module.

The mechanical coupling between adjacent modules may be implemented as draw latches that use a compressive force interlocking system. Each module is generally interconnected to the adjacent modules by using bullet hole alignment devices in combination with the draw latches.

The module group comprises a master module and zero or more slave modules. The master module includes a UGV robot master support tray and lift articulation actuator that generally provides a primary ingress and egress ramp for all of the robots that are serially stored in the master and the slave modules. That is the module group provides last in first out LIFO stowage of the robots. Each slave module contains a UGV robot limited function support tray which when lowered provides overlap into the adjacent module for interconnecting the continuous ingress and egress path for the robots to traverse upon throughout the system of interconnected coupled modules.

The systematic control apparatus comprises a single system master controller which communicates to i a host interface system when the host is implemented ii the master module controller and iii slave module controllers. Each of the individual master and slave modules includes an individual motor controller which is configured when in slave mode to the system master controller. The slave controller in the master module and each of the slave modules are linked electrically coupled to the system master controller through a serial communications link. The master module and each slave module also comprise a clamping linear drive actuator and location sensors. The slave controller in the master module and in each of the slave modules is connected coupled to provide control of the respective clamping linear drive actuator. The clamping linear drive actuators are generally connected mechanically to a main drive shaft via a linkage such that the clamping linear drive actuator rotates a main drive shaft.

The system master controller generally i interfaces typically via a wireless link with a a user e.g. operator Soldier etc. and b the host interface system when implemented ii monitors and controls the status of the individual master and slave modules iii provides hierarchy control over the master and slave modules iv provides data for the graphical user interface and v distributes the power and serial communication to each of the slave modules and master module motor controller. The system master controller monitor and control of the status of the individual master and slave modules includes executing extraction or deployment commands or operation and also may include real time information such as the presence of a robot within each module and whether each module is in the operation of robot extraction or deployment.

The system master controller may also provide an interlock lockout failsafe feature to each module when the user does not provide the correct information to execute a command. For example a slave module located three modules away from the master module will not be allowed to execute a robot deploy command when the prior two modules are not in the deployed position or when a robot is present in the one or both of the modules located one or two modules away from the master module has not yet deployed the respective robot or when the robot contained within the module commanded to deploy has not established a communication link.

The software architecture that is implemented in the system master controller provides startup and run time sequence routines and definitions for the states that are employed. The software architecture that is implemented in the system master controller also provides a specialized rule set for determining module states.

Module state determination is performed on the multiple modules in the module group. The software architecture that is implemented in the system master controller also provides a specialized state diagram for the individual motor controllers of each of the module in the module group.

The individual motor controllers include H bridge motor drivers that amplify actuator signals from the microcontroller in the individual motor controllers. The supporting circuitry in the individual motor controllers is used as an interface to the microcontroller.

A main loop procedure software routine in the microcontroller runs a state machine that is implemented in the microcontroller. In the stow state a solenoid assembly in the module can be actuated to change the power state e.g. on off of the robot. The individual motor controller microcontroller tracks monitors the operations of the solenoid assembly to ensure that a violation of the cycle time does not occur. In the deploy state the individual motor controller uses the actuator s to lower the tray of the module to the deployed position or pose. The individual motor controller also checks to ensure the deployment is proper for example through the use of optical sensors to raise or lower the support tray or proceed with other operations.

Two main operations can occur in the deployed state. When there is no robot on the tray a Society of Automotive Engineers SAE Joint Architecture for Unmanned Systems JAUS component may invoke the robot loading procedure. Secondly the module may be stowed with or without a robot. When the individual motor controller is requested by the JAUS component to load a robot the state machine transitions to the Receive Robot state that is located within the Deployed state.

When the module has a fault or error while operating i.e. an over excessive current over time time range exceeded for a process and the like the module transitions to the error state in the state machine. On the transition to the error state a control signal is sent to the H bridge to stop the actuator s . Then the JAUS component is informed of the error condition via the serial communication link. The cause of the error is noted and binned into one of four categories. While in the error state the red and green indicator LEDs of the module work together to flash the binary code corresponding to the error category of the module. The green and red flashing LEDs indicate an error state to the operator.

The above features and other features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed descriptions thereof when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The following definitions and terminology are applied as understood by one skilled in the appropriate art.

The singular forms such as a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. For example reference to a material includes reference to one or more of such materials and an element includes reference to one or more of such elements.

As used herein substantial ly and about when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material characteristic parameter and the like refer to an amount that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide as understood by one skilled in the art. The amount of variation generally depends on the specific implementation. Similarly substantially free of or the like refers to the lack of an identified composition characteristic or property. Particularly assemblies that are identified as being substantially free of are either completely absent of the characteristic or the characteristic is present only in values which are small enough that no meaningful effect on the desired results is generated.

A plurality of items structural elements compositional elements materials subassemblies and the like may be presented in a common list or table for convenience. However these lists or tables should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. As such no individual member of such list should be considered a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on the presentation in a common group so specifically described.

Concentrations values dimensions amounts and other quantitative data may be presented herein in a range format. One skilled in the art will understand that such range format is used for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a size range of about 1 dimensional unit to about 100 dimensional units should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits but also to include individual sizes such as 2 dimensional units 3 dimensional units 10 dimensional units and the like and sub ranges such as 10 dimensional units to 50 dimensional units 20 dimensional units to 100 dimensional units and the like.

Controller software that is implemented in connection with the apparatus and method of the present invention is generally compliant with Society of Automotive Engineers SAE Joint Architecture for Unmanned Systems JAUS message standards e.g. AS 4 standard AS5669A and the like which may be acquired at http standards.sae.org electrical electronics avionics architecture standards which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Basic information regarding the JAUS software architecture can be found at http www.openjaus.com understanding sae jaus. In any case one of ordinary skill in the relevant art would have a working understanding of the JAUS software architecture protocols messaging and the like. Further the controller software for the apparatus and method of the present invention is generally compliant with the Department of Defense DoD Robotic Systems Joint Project Office RSJPO Interoperability Profiles IOPs which profile more specific ways to use the SAE JAUS standards and which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The DoD RSJPO IOPs may be accessed via the Website at http www.rsjpo.army.mil . One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that any appropriate software architecture protocols messaging and the like may be implemented to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation.

Digital logic signals e.g. levels states conditions etc. implemented in the present invention are generally binary i.e. one of TRUE e.g. YES HIGH 1 ON and the like in a first state and alternatively in the opposite second state FALSE e.g. NO LOW zero 0 OFF and the like would be understood by one of skill in the art. Computer software may be referred to as programming methods steps blocks state machine routines loops and the like as would be understood in the context used by one of ordinary skill in the art. Elements and or assemblies may be referred to as having states statuses poses modes conditions and the like as would be understood in the context used by one of ordinary skill in the art.

As used herein elements having numbers more than 100 and less than 1000 generally refer to conventional elements known by one having ordinary skill in the art while elements number 1000 and above refer to the present invention or elements components and the like thereof. Like numbered elements generally refer to the same element however the like numbered elements may include a suffix L to designate the left side element and a suffix R to designate the right side element when left and right elements are mirrors i.e. physical embodiment of mirror images of each other. Similarly a center i.e. substantially centrally positioned element may be designated with the suffix C . The suffix x refers to a generic member of the particular element group e.g. an element from a group having a number of similar elements a n hence the suffix x 1 refers to a serially immediately higher element and the suffix x 1 refers to a serially immediately lower element. When it is understood by one of skill in the art from the context of use suffix designation may be omitted herein.

For clarity of Figures and explanation conventional direct hard electrical wiring and related connectors are generally not illustrated. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand the layout positioning and operational characteristics of such conventional elements. One of ordinary skill in the art would also understand that such direct electrical wiring generally may provide multi message bi directional communications as well as multi level e.g. different levels of voltage and or current electrical power.

Conventional elements further generally include i those elements associated with an unmanned ground vehicle e.g. tracked robot and the like that is an exemplar of the vehicle to be deployed extracted i.e. retrieved and stowed i.e. transported stored held etc. in accordance with the present invention ii those elements associated with a host not shown vehicle sub system vessel receptacle warehouse or the like where the present invention may be installed i.e. implemented disposed etc. and or iii programmable controller and computer hardware and memory but not including the particular computer programming that may be implemented in accordance with the present invention.

With reference to the Figures the preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. The present invention may be implemented in the context of a modular handing and stowage system e.g. module group . Generally the present invention provides an improved apparatus e.g. a system control apparatus and an improved method e.g. a method process state machine steps blocks and the like for systematic control of robotic deployment and extraction.

For purposes of description of directions orthogonal coordinate referencing is generally assumed. Longitudinal front back fore aft forward backward etc. and lateral left right side to side etc. directions relative to the system are generally as illustrated on and are generally perpendicular to each other. As such vertical i.e. up down upward downward upper lower top bottom lift lower etc. directions are generally perpendicular to the longitudinal lateral i.e. horizontal plane e.g. an earth or water body plane . Similarly clockwise CW and counterclockwise CCW rotational or angular motions are referenced as viewed from the right towards the left about the right left axis.

Referring to A B and the modular handling and stowage system module group and components thereof are illustrated. The module group comprises a primary module and may optionally further comprise one or more secondary modules e.g. secondary modules and see for example . Further in the description below the primary module may be referred to as Module and the secondary modules and may be referred to as Module and Module respectively. Generically the designation Module x refers to either of the primary module and the secondary module .

A conventional tracked robot that may be deployed extracted and stowed in connection with the modular handling and stowage system module group is also shown. In a typical implementation of the modular handling and stowage system there is one UGV that is associated with each module in the module group . For example as illustrated on robot  PM and primary module robot and secondary module and robot and secondary module

Referring in particular to isometric views from the upper right rear of the primary module including the tracked robot that may be deployed extracted and stowed in connection with the modular handling and stowage system is shown. The UGV generally includes a nose . The primary module comprises a primary module support tray a lifting lift linear actuator motor and a clamping linear actuator motor .

On the robot is illustrated in a partially loaded extracted unloaded deployed position on the primary module support tray . On the robot is illustrated in a stowed stored substantially vertical position. The primary support tray is rotated clockwise CW to the vertical stowed position and counter clockwise CCW to the deployed position as illustrated on via the lifting linear actuator .

As illustrated in detail in connection with FIGS. A B the primary module may be serially coupled mechanically and electrically to the secondary module which may in turn be daisy chained e.g. serially coupled mechanically and electrically to additional secondary modules i.e. one or more secondary modules e.g. one or more secondary modules starting as illustrated with the secondary module to form a modular handling and stowage system e.g. module group . As described in more detail below in connection with a number of sensors and indicators are generally implemented i.e. installed mounted placed fixed positioned etc. on the primary module and the secondary module to provide signals for use in connection with the apparatus and method of the present invention.

Referring to a cut away isometric view from the upper right rear of the module group of the present invention comprising the primary module and a plurality of secondary modules e.g. secondary modules is shown. The modules are all illustrated in an empty condition. The module and the modules further comprise a clamp dog . While each of the modules includes a lifting linear motor e.g. the primary module comprises the lifting linear motor  PM the secondary module comprises the lifting linear motor and the secondary module comprises the lifting linear motor only the primary module includes a clamping linear motor . Likewise the secondary modules comprise a secondary support tray e.g. a secondary support tray is included in the secondary module and a secondary support tray is included in the secondary module . The secondary support tray is rotated between the deployed horizontal and stowed vertical positions via the lifting linear motor .

Sensors and indicators that are described below in connection with are implemented to determine when the lifting linear motor is operating and the time duration of the operation the linear position of the linear actuator and the current draw of the actuator and when the clamping linear motor is operating and the time duration of the operation the linear position of the linear actuator and the current draw of the actuator. Sensors and indicators that are described below in connection with are implemented to determine when the primary module support tray and the secondary module support tray are in deployed and stowed e.g. vertical positions e.g. the state of the module support trays and clamp dogs robots etc. hence the state of the modules and .

The primary module support tray is illustrated in the below or sub horizontal deployed position and the secondary module support trays are illustrated in the horizontal deployed position.

Referring to a side elevation cut away view of the connected module group of with module covers sectioned and some internal components in phantom for clarity of illustration and including three robots e.g. the first robot  PM the second robot and the third robot is shown. The primary module support tray is in the horizontal deployed position hence the primary module is in the deploying state. The secondary module support trays and are in the vertical position hence the secondary modules and are in the stowed state. Note that states that are identified by inclusion in quotes e.g. stowed may also be alternatively referred to without quotes e.g. stowed with the first letter capitalized e.g. Stowed in all capital letters e.g. STOWED or by numerical reference element number see for example on element without changing the meaning of the identified state.

Referring to a block electrical schematic diagram illustrating the system control management operation etc. apparatus e.g. system controller is shown. The system control apparatus generally monitors and controls the operation e.g. process steps method etc. of the modular handling and stowage system as directed by a User. In one embodiment the system control apparatus comprises an operation control sub system a host interface system a wireless communication link and a primary module control sub system . Within e.g. throughout the modular handling and stowage system module group the system control apparatus generally manages via a plurality of signals e.g. commands messages transmissions communications and the like e.g. signals Control Status Msg or alternatively in some uses herein abbreviated CSSM to designate the same signals that control command indicate status provide sensor output actuator input warning power and or power transmission and the like. The specific role of a given signal CSSM will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In another embodiment e.g. when the system is implemented without the host the host interface system may be omitted.

The operation control sub system generally includes an operator control unit OCU by which the User monitors and controls the modular handling and stowage system e.g. via screen images graphical user interfaces keyboard and or touch screen entry joystick manipulation etc. and a first communications link transceiver that is electrically coupled interlinked linked etc. to the OCU . The host interface system is generally implemented in connection with e.g. installed on mounted to etc. a host e.g. a vehicle trailer etc. and comprises a second transceiver and a host interface controller that is electrically coupled to the second transceiver . The host interface controller is generally electrically coupled to the primary module control sub system . When the modular handling an stowage system is implemented without the host interface system the host interface controller is likewise generally not included.

The primary module control sub system comprises a modules supervisory controller and an individual motor controller e.g. a motor controller  PM . The modules supervisory controller may be directly electrically coupled to the host interface controller . The modules supervisory controller is generally electrically coupled to the primary motor controller  PM.

The communication link generally provides a wireless bi directional communication path between the operation control sub system and the host interface system and thereby between the User and the modular handling and stowage system module group which is mounted on the host.

When the module group includes one or more of the secondary modules each secondary module comprises a secondary sub system controller e.g. secondary sub system controllers that is generally operated in a so called slave mode. The secondary sub system controller includes an individual motor controller e.g. motor controllers . All of the individual motor controllers are generally serially electrically coupled e.g. via a serial communications link such that the primary module modules supervisory controller which is generally operated in a so called master mode provides communication e.g. monitor and control of operations via signals Control Status Msg or CSSM to all of the modules and or . As such monitor and control operations of the modular handling and stowage system module group are provided to and from the User via the system control apparatus .

Referring to block electrical schematic diagram of the control circuitry i.e. a section of the system control apparatus related to control of the master primary full function module is shown. As would be known to one of skill in the art hence not illustrated the individual motor controller e.g. on the individual motor controller  PM and on individual motor controller generally comprises three 3 physical devices i an H bridge motor driver ii supporting circuitry and iii a microcontroller with software firmware computer programming to perform the processes e.g. methods steps blocks etc. as described herein.

The H bridge comprises an electronic circuit that may be controlled to apply a voltage across a load in either direction. The H bridge circuit is implemented to provide reversible linear direction control for DC motors e.g. bi directional linear actuators such that the motors may run forwards and backwards e.g. an actuator shaft may be commanded to move in and out . The H bridge motor driver is used to energize the linear actuators that are implemented in the modular handling and stowage system . The H bridge motor driver amplifies the actuator control signals that are received from the microcontroller.

The supporting circuitry provides interfacing to the microcontroller. The circuitry performs tasks that include providing voltage sources for switches and potentiometers in the actuators adding pull down resistors for switches holding a voltage divider for light emitting diodes LEDs i.e. visual indicators and driving a power on off solenoid assembly.

The microcontroller provides the capability of processing analog and digital electrical inputs and outputs. The microcontroller including memory runs software and or firmware that includes an initialization routine and a main loop described below particularly in connection with . The initialization routine part of the software runs at each power on sequence and establishes the input and output pins of the microcontroller. The initialization software routine also sets up establishes the serial port connection parameters to communicate with JAUS components in the system control apparatus . The initialization software routine also launches the main loop software.

Referring to a block electrical schematic diagram of the control circuitry i.e. a section of the system control apparatus related to control of the master primary full function module is shown. The primary module control sub system comprises the modules supervisory controller the individual master primary module controller e.g. individual module controller  PM a clamping linear actuator motor controller a lifting linear actuator motor controller and a primary module controller printed circuit board PCB  PM.

The primary individual module controller  PM generally comprises unique programming that is software and or firmware that may be different that the software that is implemented in connection with the secondary module individual controllers . The individual primary module controller  PM further comprises electrical coupling e.g. connections links communication etc. to the lifting linear actuator the clamping linear actuator the modules supervisory controller the clamping linear actuator motor controller the lifting linear actuator motor controller and the primary module controller printed circuit board .

The individual primary module controller  PM is generally electrically coupled to a primary module sensor suite e.g. set group array etc. e.g. the primary module sensor suite  PM that comprises a first primary visual indicator a second primary visual indicator a primary IR distance primary optical nose position sensor a first primary support tray lever operated limit switch a second lever operated primary nose position limit switch a clamp dog position push button primary clamp dog limit switch i.e. the first push button limit switch and a push solenoid primary shuttle switching assembly via the primary module controller printed circuit board . In addition the primary module sensor suite  PM comprises the lifting linear actuator and the clamping linear actuator .

The primary individual motor controller  PM may be linked to the co located master module modules supervisory controller through the serial communications link . When the modular handling and stowage system includes one or more of the secondary modules primary individual motor controller  PM may be linked to the secondary module control sub systems via the serial communications link .

One of skill in the art will appreciate that the selection placement and orientation of the various components such as the clamp dog components of the primary module sensor suite  PM switches sensors indicators potentiometers solenoids and the like will depend on the design criteria of a particular implementation of the robot and of the primary module . Such a skilled artisan will be able to determine the operable placement and orientation by routine experimentation.

In accordance with the description of the operation and processes that are generally implemented in connection with the primary module the following signals e.g. the signal Control Status Msg or CSSM may be presented to from and within the system control apparatus 

a primary extract signal e.g. command that is presented via the OCU when extraction of the vehicle and stowage within the primary module is desired 

a primary deploy signal that is presented via the OCU when deployment of the vehicle from the primary module is desired 

a primary tray deployed position e.g. status signal presented via the primary tray lever operated limit switch indicating that the primary module support tray is in the deployed position 

a primary nose position signal that is presented via the primary nose position limit switch when the nose reaches the clamping position 

a primary clamp dog horizontal position signal that is presented via the primary clamp dog limit switch indicating that the primary clamp dog is fully open 

a primary over run position signal that is presented via the primary optical nose position sensor when the nose of the vehicle exceeds the clamping position 

a clamping linear actuator position feedback signal that is presented by the clamping linear actuator when the primary clamp dog rests against the nose 

a primary clamp dog off horizontal position signal that is presented via the primary clamp dog limit switch indicating that the primary clamp dog has moved from the horizontal position 

a primary tray off deployed position signal that is presented via the primary tray lever operated limit switch indicating that the primary module support tray has moved from the deployed position 

a vehicle primary stored status signal that is presented via the primary individual module motor controller  PM when i the primary tray lever operated limit switch indicates that the primary module support tray has moved from the deployed position and ii the primary clamp dog limit switch indicates that the primary clamp dog has moved from the horizontal position thereby indicating that the vehicle is stored in the primary module and

a primary power control e.g. command signal that is presented via the OCU when the primary shuttle switching assembly is actuated thereby toggle switching the vehicle battery power on and off.

Referring to a block electrical schematic diagram of the control circuitry i.e. a section of the system control apparatus related to control of the secondary module is shown. The secondary module control sub system comprises the slave secondary individual module controller the lifting linear actuator motor controller and a secondary module controller printed circuit board PCB 

The secondary individual module controller generally comprises unique programming that is software and or firmware that may be different that the software that is implemented in connection with the primary module controller  PM . The secondary module controller further comprises electrical coupling e.g. connections links communication etc. to the lifting linear actuator the lifting linear actuator motor controller and the secondary module controller printed circuit board . The secondary module controller further comprises electrical coupling to the primary module i.e. the primary individual motor controller  PM via the serial communications link .

The secondary individual module controller is generally electrically coupled to a secondary module sensor suite e.g. set group array etc. e.g. the secondary module sensor suite that comprises a first secondary visual indicator a second secondary visual indicator a secondary IR distance secondary optical nose position sensor a second lever operated secondary nose position limit switch the clamp dog position push button limit secondary clamp dog switch i.e. the first push button limit switch a second push button secondary support tray limit switch and a push solenoid secondary shuttle switching assembly via the secondary module controller printed circuit board . In addition the secondary module sensor suite comprises the lifting linear actuator .

One of skill in the art will appreciate that the selection placement and orientation of the various components such as the clamp dog switches sensors indicators potentiometers solenoids components of the sensor suite and the like will depend on the design criteria of a particular implementation of the robot and of the secondary module . Such a skilled artisan will be able to determine the operable placement and orientation by routine experimentation.

In accordance with the description of the operation and processes that are generally implemented in connection with the secondary module the following signals e.g. the signal Control Status Msg or CSSM may be presented to from and within the system control apparatus 

a secondary extract signal that is presented via the OCU when extraction of the vehicle and stowage within the secondary module is desired 

a secondary deploy signal that is presented via the OCU when deployment of the vehicle from the secondary module is desired 

a secondary tray deployed position signal that is presented via the secondary tray limit switch when the secondary module support tray reaches the deployed position 

a secondary nose position signal that is presented via the secondary nose position limit switch when the nose reaches the clamping position 

a secondary clamp dog horizontal position signal that is presented via the secondary clamp dog limit switch when the secondary clamp dog reaches the horizontal position 

a secondary over run position signal that is presented via the secondary optical nose position sensor when the nose of the vehicle exceeds the clamping position 

a secondary clamp dog off horizontal position signal that is presented via the secondary clamp dog limit switch indicating that the secondary clamp dog has moved from the horizontal position 

a secondary tray off deployed position signal presented via the secondary tray limit switch indicating that the secondary module support tray has moved from the horizontal position 

a vehicle secondary stored status signal that is presented via the secondary module motor controller when i the secondary tray limit switch indicates that the secondary module support tray has moved from the deployed position and ii the secondary clamp dog limit switch indicates that the secondary clamp dog has moved from the horizontal position thereby indicating that the vehicle is stored in the secondary module and

a secondary power control signal that is presented via the OCU to actuate the secondary shuttle switching assembly thereby toggle switching the vehicle battery power on and off.

Referring to a block electrical schematic diagram illustrating software architecture of the primary module controller is shown. The primary module controller is generally electrically coupled to the operating control unit and thus bi directionally presents and receives signals e.g. JAUS messages to and from the operating control unit . The software architecture of the primary module controller comprises a transport manager layer a main process segment and a serial bus e.g. USB interface . The transport manager layer is electrically coupled between the operating control unit and the main process segment .

The main process segment generally comprises a component manager i.e. management process steps etc. e.g. a JAUS node and a module manager . The component manager process is electrically coupled to the module manager and the module manager is electrically coupled to the serial bus interface . The main process i.e. method steps etc. segment further generally comprises programming that is configured as a state machine which is described below in connection with FIGS. A C . The software that comprises the state machine generally principally resides in memory in the modules supervisory controller however one of skill in the art would understand that the state machine control software may be implemented in any of one or more appropriate locations to meet the design criteria of a particular case. As such the description herein is exemplary and not limiting.

The component manager process comprises a plurality of transport layer interfaces e.g. primary module transport layer interface  P and secondary module transport layer interfaces  Sa  Sn and a plurality of signal management e.g. JAUS components e.g. main JAUS signal management component  P and secondary JAUS signal management components  Sa  Sn . The transport layer interfaces are each electrically coupled to the transport manager layer and to one of the signal management JAUS components . The signal management components are each electrically coupled to the serial bus interface . There is generally a JAUS signal management component e.g. the main JAUS signal management component  P that is dedicated to master controller related operations i.e. primary module operations and the other signal management JAUS components e.g. the secondary JAUS signal management components  Sa  Sn that are generally dedicated to secondary module related operations.

The serial bus interface is electrically coupled to each of the individual motor controllers via the serial USB bus .

Referring to block diagrams illustrating two examples of a variety of information e.g. data commands statuses states poses and the like that may be observed controlled communicated and monitored in the module group via the system control apparatus are shown. The primary module control sub system generally includes the real time status e.g. Sx where x indicates a particular module or for the primary module and the secondary modules in the primary module modules supervisory controller .

The information that is presented via a status message signal e.g. the signal Control Status Msg or CSSM from the primary and or secondary individual motor controllers to the primary module modules supervisory controller may be in terms of executing an extraction or deployment command or operation and may also include real time information with regards to the presence of the robot within each module and or and whether each module and or is an extraction or deployment mode of operation of the robot and the like.

In one example illustrated on the individual motor controller  PM presents a status message signal e.g. S PM Deployed No UGV to the primary module modules supervisory controller the individual motor controller presents a status signal e.g. Sa Deployed No UGV to the primary module modules supervisory controller the individual motor controller presents a status signal e.g. Sb Not Deployed Has UGV to the primary module modules supervisory controller and the individual motor controller presents a status signal e.g. Sc Deployed Has UGV to the primary module modules supervisory controller .

In another example illustrated on the individual motor controller  PM presents the status signal S PM Deployed No UGV to the primary module modules supervisory controller the individual motor controller presents the status signal Sa Deployed No UGV to the primary module modules supervisory controller the individual motor controller presents the status signal Sb Not Deployed Has UGV Ready to the primary module modules supervisory controller and the individual motor controller presents the status signal Sc Deployed Has UGV Not Ready to the primary module modules supervisory controller .

The system control apparatus generally limits deployment of the UGVs from the modules and to the UGVs that are in a condition for deployment e.g. a Ready state pose or mode . The modules supervisory controller also generally provides extraction storage deployment operation and interlock lockout failsafe to each module and to eliminate deployment errors. In particular as well as status signals the system control apparatus generally communicates signals with the modular handling and stowage system module group that may be related to command and control operations e.g. lift lower actuate extend retract deploy extract power on off rotate feedback etc. and monitoring e.g. alert e.g. safe not safe clear blocked in out of position alignment etc. .

Referring to a start up and run time sequence map of the system control apparatus of is illustrated. Continuing to refer to and also referring back to the modules supervisory controller initializes and runs two processes that is i a node manager e.g. component manager process JAUS node and the like and ii the main process . The component manager process e.g. node manager manages the message traffic for the node i.e. the primary module modules supervisory controller . As noted above the message traffic is conducted via the JAUS standards. The start up and run time sequence map generally illustrates the operation e.g. steps coordination loops routines and the like of timing control programming e.g. computer software related to the state machine .

An initialization process begins with the starting of the component manager process e.g. step which provides the capability for components on the system control apparatus to pass messages between each other and off board. The main process is started after the node manager e.g. component manager process is running and the main process connects to the component manager process e.g. node manager JAUS node and the like thereby providing the capability for the main process to send and receive messages.

After the main process is started e.g. step two new objects are created namely the module manager e.g. step and the component manager process JAUS node e.g. step . The module manager detects the individual motor controllers as they are discovered detected or lost detached e.g. step or block and notifies receiving devices i.e. listeners e.g. other components of the system control apparatus when discovery and or loss events occur e.g. step .

The component manager process creates a single signal management e.g. JAUS component for each of the primary and the secondary individual motor controller that is detected e.g. step and manages the JAUS signal management components as a group. Both of the module manager and the component manager process provide messages threads i.e. the command signals the status signals etc. for execution by the affected devices in the modular handling and stowage system .

After creation of the module manager and the component manager process the component manager process is registered as a listener e.g. receiver to the module manager to enable reception of notifications e.g. the status signals of when any of the primary and or individual motor controllers are discovered or lost e.g. step . The JAUS signal management components are created or deleted as the secondary modules are discovered or lost e.g. attached or detached added or removed etc. e.g. step . There is one of the JAUS signal management components for each of the secondary modules that is discovered. The JAUS signal management component sends presents messages e.g. the status signals to and receives messages from the primary and or secondary individual motor controllers . The JAUS signal management component also maintains the state e.g. pose for the primary and or secondary individual motor controller .

The module manager is started substantially immediately after the component manager process is registered as a listener to the module manager notifications thereby allowing the component manager process to be informed of any of the secondary modules that are present in the system control apparatus . After a set e.g. predetermined selected etc. period of time has elapsed the component manager process is started e.g. steps and and a base configuration of secondary modules is locked in within the component manager process e.g. step and services are registered e.g. step . The base configuration comprises the configuration of the modular handling and stowage system module group i.e. which secondary modules are present and which modules are adjacent to one another that will be used for comparison through the run time of the system control apparatus . After the base configuration is locked in the component manager process e.g. JAUS node is activated.

A Checking the system control apparatus for module continuity and when there are gaps between modules e.g. Module and Module are detected but Module is not setting a failure condition e.g. an ERROR status .

B Activating each of the individual signal management JAUS components where activation of the JAUS signal management component includes performing a communications check with the primary or secondary individual motor controller that is controlled thereby.

C Determining the initial state of the system control apparatus . The state of all individual JAUS signal management components is determined using their internal state i.e. STOWED or DEPLOYED and the state of the adjacent modules primary and or secondary . The state can also be considered the pose.

D Controlling of each JAUS signal management component thereby providing control e.g. management via the OCU to request and receive control of each JAUS signal management component in turn providing control of the individual modules primary and secondary .

After the activation process occurs a periodic e.g. repeated main loop e.g. block of steps starts. The main loop continues until the component manager process is stopped. Within the main loop two primary sub processes occur safety checks e.g. step or loop and state determination e.g. step or pool . The safety checks are generally performed first. When a safety check fails the system control apparatus is put into a failure state and may reset to recover normal operation.

The safety check includes checking whether any JAUS signal management component is reporting an individual failure i.e. a failure within the individual module controller checking whether the present configuration i.e. the condition that is checked varies from the base configuration that is whether the primary module and or one or more of the secondary modules has been lost or gained since the component manager process was started and checking to determine whether communication has been lost to any of the primary and or secondary individual motor controllers . Any failure condition that is detected and set by the safety check step of the main loop is propagated i.e. communicated to all of the JAUS signal management components .

The second sub process within the main loop is the state determination step which determines the current state of the system control apparatus . The state determination step assesses the state also known as a pose of each of the primary and secondary signal management components within the system control apparatus . The state determination assesses the internal state of the individual motor controller that the primary and or secondary signal management component represents and also the states of the immediately adjacent e.g. neighbor directly connected etc. modules to determine the state of an individual primary and or secondary signal management component . For example when the individual motor controller implemented in connection with the secondary signal management component  Sa of the Module is in the stowed state and both of the primary signal management component  P of the Module and the secondary signal management component  Sb of the Module which are adjacent to the secondary signal management component  Sa are in the stowed state the state of the secondary signal management component  Sa is determined to be stowed i.e. not clear to deploy .

When the module manager and the component manager process are running the primary signal management component  P and all of the secondary signal management components  S that have been created are also running their own individual thread plus threads for an associated Discrete State Driver service. The Discrete State Driver service is an earlier version of an interoperability profile TOP defined service called the Preset Pose Service .

The principal responsibility e.g. highest priority sub process of the signal management component thread i.e. software routine is to read and process messages e.g. the signals e.g. step or loop from the associated individual motor controller . These messages are generally primarily status messages error messages acknowledgements and negative acknowledgements of command signals. The signal management component also listens for notifications from the Discrete State Driver service. These notifications are based on messages that the Discrete State Driver service receives the most important of these being a set current state request notification e.g. step that occurs e.g. is presented when the Discrete State Driver service receives a message indicating a request to change the current state pose of the signal management component .

Based on e.g. in response to the indicated state requested within the notification the signal management component sends presents the appropriate command to the individual motor controller e.g. step or loop . The signal management component tracks the command in a list to determine when the command has been closed out i.e. affirmative confirmation that the command completed . The signal management component initially waits for an affirmative acknowledgement message from the individual motor controller which is the first part of closing out the command. The final part of closing out the command is a status message from the individual motor controller that indicates the requested state has been achieved.

Referring to state diagrams of operation and transition modes of the state machine i.e. state control programming for the primary master module controller apparatus are illustrated. Success conditions are generally based on sensor signals e.g. signals that are received from the primary module sensor suite  and secondary module sensor suites when implemented and command signals. Internal transitions are generally automatically implemented by the master module controller apparatus in particular the modules supervisory controller i.e. are not implemented by command signals e.g. signals that originate from the User via the control unit and or sensors . The transitions may be generated result internally e.g. autonomously self directed automatically without receipt of a command signal or alternatively as a valid transition i.e. a transition that is initiated via the receipt of an appropriate command signal i.e. command directed user directed and the like .

Referring to a state diagram illustrating a basic internal autonomous transition of states from a default condition to an error condition is shown. States may be defined as 

When the state is at the DEFAULT and the ERROR condition is presented to the master module controller apparatus from any source the state machine generally transitions autonomously to the ERROR state .

Referring to a state diagram illustrating valid transitions of states from a starting condition to an end condition is shown. The states may be defined as 

Signals presented and received that comprise at least a part of the status signals that generate the state transitions may be defined as 

NAK Communicates rejection of a previously received message or indicates a failure condition or an ERROR state.

Beginning at the START state and transitioning to the decision block i.e. looking determining whether the ACK or the NAK signal has been received when the NAK signal e.g. the Transition FAILED is found i.e. determined received etc. the state machine generally transitions back to the START state and when the ACK signal is determined the state machine generally transitions to the SUCCESS FAIL decision block .

At the SUCCESS FAIL decision block when the TIMEOUT Transition FAILED condition occurs the state machine generally transitions back to the START state and when the SUCCESS condition occurs the state machine generally transitions to the END state .

Referring to a state diagram for the state machine illustrating transitions between states that are implemented in the primary and secondary modules and respectively are shown. The states e.g. poses are generally comprised further as follows 

Also referring back to an example of module internal state determination in the modular handling and stowage system module group having the primary module coupled to the first secondary module and the first secondary module coupled to the second secondary module may be as follows. For explanatory purposes the master module at the rear of the module group may be assigned the designation Module the first secondary module i.e. the secondary module the designation Module and the second secondary module i.e. the secondary module Module .

The Module e.g. the primary module and the secondary modules state determinations are generally conducted in order i.e. serially sequentially etc. from the Module to the Module or higher when more of the modules are implemented . The state of the primary Module is determined from a self state determination process and from the determination of the state of the Module which is electrically and mechanically coupled directly to the Module . The internal state of the individual motor controller  PM that is associated with the Module is deployed with robot present which means the state of the Module is either DEPLOYED e.g. the state or DEPLOYED CLEAR e.g. the state . As the internal state of the individual motor controller that is associated with the Module is stowed the Module is at the state of DEPLOYED CLEAR .

The state of the Module is dependent on its own internal state as well as that of the states of the Modules and . In this case i.e. as illustrated on the internal state of the Module is stowed . The only condition that provides the Module clearance to deploy is when the Module is fully deployed without the robot present. As such in the situation illustrated on the state of the Module is STOWED e.g. the state .

The state of the Module depends on its own internal state and the internal state of the adjacent Module that is the internal state of the Module . The internal state of the Module is also STOWED e.g. the state because the Module is not clear to be deployed that is deployment from the Module is blocked by the Module e.g. the robot that is stowed in the Module .

Throughout the modular handling and stowage system e.g. module group the determination of the state of a Module x is generally performed via the component manager process . As described above in connection with the component manager process regularly i.e. periodically assesses and updates the state of the Module x i.e. the JAUS component manager process . The state is determined based on the internal state of the individual motor controller that is associated with the particular Module x e.g. the particular module or and the state of the neighboring e.g. adjacent directly coupled electrically and mechanically two Modules and or e.g. next position rearward lower below down Module  x 1 and next position forward higher above up Module  x 1 . As defined above there are six 6 internal states that the individual motor controller can report Stowed Stowing Deployed Deploying Error and Unknown. The rule set for determining the state of the Module x may be summarized as 

When more than one Module is moving transitioning at a time the Modules that are transitioning go to the error state .

When the internal state of the individual motor controller is stowed the state of the Module x is either STOWED e.g. the state or STOWED CLEAR e.g. the state . Clear is indicated by determining whether anything would prevent the Module x from being deployed i.e. any of the Modules

When the internal state of the individual motor controller is deployed then the state of the Module x is either DEPLOYED e.g. the state or DEPLOYED CLEAR e.g. the state . Clear is indicated by determining whether anything would prevent the Module x from being stowed i.e. any of the Modules above the Module x are not stowed completely .

When the internal state of the individual motor controller is unknown then the state of the Module x is either UNKNOWN e.g. the state or UNKNOWN CLEAR TO STOW e.g. the state . Clear is indicated by determining whether anything would prevent the Module x from being stowed i.e. any of the Modules

The Module x stays in the SOLENOID ACTIVE e.g. the state state until the individual motor controller reports i.e. presents a signal that indicates that the solenoid activation process is complete.

When the Module x is clear to stow and the robot is present the Module x is considered to be in the READY TO STOW state e.g. the state regardless of whether or not the User presented the command signal appropriate to transition the Module x to the READY TO STOW state .

Error states e.g. the state are propagated throughout the system control apparatus . When one of the Modules is in the error state all of the Modules will be set to the error state .

As illustrated on the transitions between states of the state machine i.e. the state of the Module x as exemplified by execution operation running etc. of the state machine are generally as follows.

Starting with the Module x at the UNKNOWN state e.g. the state when a robot is not present and the Module  x 1 is at either of the STOWED and STOWED CLEAR states the state of the Module x autonomously transitions to the UNKNOWN CLEAR TO STOW state e.g. the state .

From the UNKNOWN CLEAR TO STOW state when the Module x achieves e.g. reaches becomes etc. a SUCCESS status which is generally defined as receipt of the ACK signal and the status of the Module x includes the robot in the stowed position the state of the Module x is directed by a command signal to transition i.e. command directed transitions to STOWED e.g. the state .

From the STOWED state in a first instance when the Module  x 1 does not have a robot present and the state of the Module  x 1 is either of DEPLOYED or DEPLOYED CLEAR the state of the Module x transitions internally i.e. autonomously transitions to STOWED CLEAR e.g. the state .

Returning to the state in a second instance when the Module X achieves the SUCCESS status via receipt of the ACK signal and the status of the Module x indicates that the solenoid shuttle switching assembly is active i.e. activation of the solenoid shuttle assembly is desired an activate solenoid command signal is presented and the like the state of the Module x transitions via command i.e. command directed transitions to SOLENOID ACTIVE e.g. the state .

At the SOLENOID ACTIVE state e.g. the state in a first instance when the Module x has transitioned from the STOWED state e.g. the state and the SUCCESS includes the status of the solenoid shuttle switching assembly as inactive the state of the Module x internally transitions back to the STOWED state e.g. the state and in a second instance when the Module x has transitioned from the STOWED CLEAR state e.g. the state and the SUCCESS includes the status of the solenoid shuttle switching assembly as inactive the state of the Module x autonomously transitions back to the STOWED CLEAR state e.g. the state .

Returning to the state the SUCCESS condition always includes a command directed transition to the READY TO DEPLOY state e.g. the state .

Similarly from the READY TO DEPLOY state in one instance the SUCCESS condition always includes a command directed transition back to the STOWED CLEAR state e.g. the state . In a second instance from the READY TO DEPLOY state when a SUCCESS condition that includes receipt of the ACK signal and the desired commanded status of the Module X is deployed the Module x command directed transitions to the DEPLOYED state e.g. the state .

From the DEPLOYED state when a robot is not present and the Module  x 1 is in either of the STOWED state e.g. the state or the STOWED CLEAR state e.g. the state the Module x autonomously transitions to the DEPLOYED CLEAR state e.g. the state .

From the DEPLOYED CLEAR state in one instance the SUCCESS condition always includes a command directed transition back to the STOWED state e.g. the state . In a second instance from the DEPLOYED CLEAR state when a SUCCESS condition that includes receipt of the ACK signal and the desired commanded status of the Module X is stowed the Module x command directed transitions to the READY TO STOW state e.g. the state .

From the READY TO STOW state in one instance the SUCCESS condition always includes a command directed transition back to the DEPLOYED CLEAR state e.g. the state . In a second instance from the state READY TO STOW when a SUCCESS condition that includes receipt of the ACK signal and the desired commanded status of the Module X is stowed the Module x command directed transitions back to the STOWED state e.g. the state .

Referring to a state diagram for the primary and or secondary individual motor controller of the system control apparatus of is illustrated. As described above in connection with the primary and or secondary individual motor controller generally comprises three 3 physical devices i the H bridge motor driver ii the supporting circuitry and iii the microcontroller with software firmware e.g. status control computer programming to perform the processes e.g. methods steps blocks state machine routines loops etc. . As used herein particularly in the context of the state diagram on the terms state s and status es are generally interchangeable and are so used in the description as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

The microcontroller provides the capability of processing analog and digital electrical inputs and outputs. The microcontroller that includes the state machine which runs e.g. executes processes etc. status control programming software routine loop etc. that includes an initialization e.g. power on off start stop begin end and the like routine e.g. status and a main loop e.g. main loop . In one example the status control programming that ensures proper handling of error conditions e.g. the autonomous transition from the DEFAULT state status to the ERROR state status as illustrated on .

The main loop procedure in the microcontroller runs e.g. performs operates processes executes etc. integrally as part of the state machine . The main loop programming may be implemented similarly to the DEFAULT state status related programming. The state machine generally controls the behavior of the primary and or secondary individual motor controller . Actions are completed on the transitions as the primary and or secondary individual motor controller passes e.g. transitions shifts moves etc. from state to state status to status . In general the transitions in the state machine are triggered by either messages e.g. commands signals status messages feedback signals and the like from the OCU the JAUS signal management component in the modules supervisory controller and or from the sensor suite e.g. the actuators and the switches and the nose position over run indicator and the like or by autonomously performing computer programming routines.

The state machine comprises a power off condition the initialization state status the error state status and four states statuses that represent the physical configuration or pose of the module e.g. the primary module and or the secondary module alternatively referred to as the Module x . The four physical configuration states statuses that are illustrated on comprise a Stow ing command state status the Stowed state status a Deploy ing command state status and the Deployed state status . As well as the processes described in detail below the Stowing command status the Stowed status the Deploying command status and the Deployed status each include a Status Request sub routine that substantially continuously monitors the sensor suite during the operation of the main loop .

In one example the status signal message may be implemented as an eight 8 bit signal having the most significant bit MSB bit 1 Indication of status message bit X presence of the robot bit X ready for command bits and XX position of the module support tray primary or one or more of the secondary bit X solenoid assembly control bit and bits and padded with zeros e.g. 0 . For bits and the positions of the module support tray or may be defined as 00 deploying e.g. the status 01 deployed e.g. the status 10 stowing e.g. the status and 11 stowed e.g. the status . However the status message may be implemented having any appropriate length and defining bit pattern to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

When the primary and or secondary individual motor controller is at the Power Off status and power is applied the state machine is activated and the initialization status routine begins. Conversely when the state machine is in an active condition and power to the primary and or secondary individual motor controller is removed the Module x transitions to the Power Off status .

At the initialization status the state machine checks e.g. reviews determines assesses and the like the status of all the limit position switches e.g. the switches and in the sensor suite of the Module x. The three outcomes of the switch status check process are the Module x is in i the stowed position e.g. the status ii the deployed position e.g. the status or iii the unknown condition e.g. the status .

When the primary and or secondary individual motor controller is in a known configuration e.g. not at the unknown status the state machine will automatically autonomously transition to the determined status of the Module x.

When the primary and or secondary individual motor controller is at the unknown status the individual motor controller will wait for input from the JAUS signal management component that resides in the modules supervisory controller . The input e.g. command signal from the signal management component generally directs the primary and or secondary individual motor controller to either stow or deploy the Module x.

In the Stow status e.g. the command state the primary and or secondary individual motor controller changes the pose of the Module x from a deployed configuration e.g. the status to a stowed configuration e.g. the status . During transition from the status to the status the primary and or secondary individual motor controller activates the appropriate actuator e.g. the actuator and or the actuator via the H bridge amplifier noted above.

While the linear actuator s lifting and or clamping are active power on mode the microcontroller in the primary and or secondary individual motor controller monitors the current draw of the linear actuator s and or . When the monitored current exceeds a predetermined current limit for the particular operation and configuration status the linear actuator lifting and or clamping is shutdown stopped and the Module x enters the error condition e.g. the status .

When the linear actuator and or does not draw excessive current the Module x will complete the requested transition when the clamping dog limit switch is activated. At that time the state machine transitions to the Stowed state status e.g. the status .

The primary and or secondary individual motor controller tracks measures determines etc. the time to completion for the transition to the Stowed status. When the clamping dog limit switch is not activated within a predetermined window of time time frame the Module x will also transition into the error condition e.g. the status .

Referring to the status the Stowed status i.e. physical positioning of the robot in the Module xduring the stowed status provides the User the capability such that the solenoid shuttle switching assembly that is mounted in the Module x can be actuated to change e.g. toggle the power state of the robot . When the robot internal power is on the solenoid shuttle switching assembly can be used to power off the robot . Likewise when the robot internal power is off the solenoid shuttle switching assembly can be used to turn the robot on. The maximum cycle time e.g. less than 5 seconds of the solenoid shuttle switching assembly is predetermined e.g. programmed into the software of the microcontroller of the primary and or secondary individual motor controller . The microcontroller portion of the primary and or secondary individual motor controller tracks e.g. monitors the operations of the solenoid shuttle switching assembly to ensure that a violation too short or too long duration of cycle time does not occur.

When in the stowed state the primary and or secondary individual motor controller may also receive the deploy command that is presented by the JAUS signal management component . When the Deploy command is received the primary and or secondary individual motor controller i.e. the state machine transitions to the Deploy state e.g. the state .

Referring to the status during the Deploy status the primary and or secondary individual motor controller controls the lowering of the module support tray or of the Module x to the deployed position or pose via the lifting linear actuator . While the module support tray or is being lowered the microcontroller of the primary and or secondary individual motor controller monitors the current draw of the lifting linear actuator in the sensor suite .

When the lifting linear actuator draws more current than the set limit allowed in the present configuration i.e. excessive current is drawn the Module x i.e. the state machine transitions to the error status . When the lifting linear actuator lowers the module support tray or and the lifting linear actuator current does not violate the predetermined limit after the tray position switch in the case of the primary module and switch in the case of the secondary module is depressed the Module x i.e. the state machine transitions to the Deployed status .

The transition to the deployed status is also timed by the primary and or secondary individual motor controller . When the tray position switch or is not depressed within the allowable predetermined window of time e.g. the lifting linear actuator operates longer than 15 seconds the Module x i.e. the state machine will transition to the error status .

Referring to the status there are two main operations e.g. tasks procedures oops routines and the like that can be performed during the Deployed status i the loading e.g. extraction procedure and ii a module stowing procedure i.e. rotation of the Module x to the vertical position whether or not a robot is present on the module support tray primary or secondary . When there is no robot on the tray the JAUS signal management component may invoke initiate the robot loading procedure.

When the primary and or secondary individual motor controller receives a load request command from the JAUS signal management component the state machine transitions to a Receive Robot status e.g. a status that is located within e.g. is a sub status to the Deployed status .

During the time that the Module x is at the receive robot status the primary and or secondary individual motor controller initially provides an indication e.g. status signal to the User that the Module x is ready to receive a robot via illumination of the green indicator LED i.e. the first visual indicator on the Module x. While the User is maneuvering the robot into the correct position for loading the primary and or secondary individual motor controller monitors the robot present nose position limit switch that is located in the module support tray or of the Module x.

When the nose position limit switch is depressed the individual motor controller will illuminate the red indicator LED e.g. the second visual indicator to provide the User an indication that the robot may be in the correct position for stowing. To ensure that the robot is not driven too far into the Module x an optical sensor e.g. the nose position over run indicator laterally scans the region of the Module x near the correct position of the nose and determines the depth amount of longitudinal entry of the robot into the Module x. When the optical position sensor determines that an obstruction is present the obstruction is assumed to be the robot and the primary and or secondary individual motor controller will present the signal to slowly flash e.g. flash at a rate in the range of 1 2 flashes per second or less the red indicator LED e.g. the second visual indicator .

The slow flashing illumination blink of the second visual indicator provides the User an indication that the robot is likely out of proper position for loading. When the User corrects the depth of the robot e.g. backs the robot to a proper longitudinal location the nose position over run indicator will provide a signal indicating that the robot is in the correct position and the red LED e.g. the second visual indicator will cease to blink and remain solidly lit. When the robot is held maintained in the correct position for a short period of time e.g. more than 20 seconds the primary and or secondary individual motor controller i.e. the state machine will exit transition from the receive robot state and return transition to the Deployed status .

Prior to transition of the Module x to the stowed status the primary and or secondary individual motor controller e.g. the state machine generally determines whether the Module x is clear to raise the module support tray primary or secondary . The nose position over run indicator laterally scans the region of the Module x near the correct position of the nose and determines whether or not an obstruction is present.

When the nose position over run indicator determines that an obstruction is present the individual motor controller will not perform the stowing procedure i.e. the state machine will refrain from transitioning to the stowed status . The primary and or secondary individual motor controller also indicates that an obstruction has been determined by negatively acknowledging the stow command i.e. the NAK signal is presented to the JAUS signal management component . Furthermore the primary and or secondary individual motor controller indicates that the obstruction condition to the operator i.e. the User by rapidly flashing illumination i.e. flashing at a rate of greater than 2 flashes per second of the red indicator LED i.e. the second visual indicator that is on the Module x.

When the optical sensor i.e. the nose position over run indicator does not sense an obstruction the Module x i.e. the state machine is transitioned to the Stow status e.g. the status and the module support tray primary or secondary is stowed.

When the Module x has a fault or error event while operating i.e. an over current over time and the like condition occurs the Module x transitions to the error status in the state machine . On the transition to the error status a control signal is sent to the H bridge to stop the lifting motor actuator . The signal management component is informed of the error condition via a message e.g. status signal over via the serial communication link . The reason e.g. cause of the error is noted determined and binned into e.g. classified categorized entered into and the like a predefined category e.g. over current excessive time obstruction robot over travel etc. .

During the time that Module x is in the error status the red and green indicator LEDs i.e. the first visual indicator and the second visual indicator flash the binary code corresponding to the error category of the Module x that has been encountered. The first visual indicator and the second visual indicator thereby may indicate the particular error state to the operator User so that correction may be made.

As is apparent then from the above detailed description the present invention may provide an improved apparatus e.g. the system control apparatus and an improved method e.g. the method or process for systematic control of robotic deployment extraction and stowage.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

