---

title: System and method for charging an energy source of a portable electronic device
abstract: A method and system to charge efficiently and safely batteries that power an electronic device and are comprised in an electronic device. The method and system performs measurement of electrical currents flowing in different branches of an electrical circuit that comprises the batteries and determines if there if there is a battery connection fault. The charge current used to charge the batteries is adjusted in accordance with the detected fault or absence thereof, in order not to exceed a safe current limit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09337669&OS=09337669&RS=09337669
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09337669
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130208
---
The present disclosure relates generally to electronic devices. More particularly the present disclosure relates to electronic devices powered by multiple rechargeable energy sources.

Present day electronic devices particularly portable electronic devices such as for example smart phones and tablets can be equipped with a battery unit that comprises multiple rechargeable batteries or cells. The rechargeable batteries are electrically connected to each other to provide or supply an output voltage used to run the electronic device. Recharging of the battery unit requires providing a charge current to the battery unit. The maximum allowable value of the charge current is determined in accordance with the arrangement of the rechargeable cells i.e. how they are electrically connected to each other and in accordance with safety measures such as for example those set out by the International Association for the Wireless Communication Industry CTIA to ensure safety during the recharging process.

For example under such safety measures an electronic device powered by a battery unit having multiple rechargeable same cells electrically connected to each other for example in parallel could have as its maximum allowable charge current the maximum allowable charge current for a single cell. This would ensures that in the case where the multiple rechargeable cells become electrically disconnected and only one rechargeable cell remains connected to the recharging unit that the charge current would still be safe for that single remaining cell. However having this safe charge current leads to long recharging times particularly when all the rechargeable cells are in place and electrically connected to each other.

Improvements in portable devices that have a battery unit with multiple electrically connected rechargeable cells are therefore desirable.

Generally the present disclosure provides a method and system to charge efficiently and safely batteries comprised in an electronic device. The method and system performs measurement of electrical currents flowing in different branches of an electrical circuit that comprises the batteries and determines if there if there is a battery connection fault. The charge current used to charge the batteries is adjusted in accordance with the detected fault or absence thereof such as to ensure that the charge current received by each battery does not exceed a safe current limit.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments described herein. Also the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the embodiments described herein.

The embodiments described herein generally relate to portably powered typically but not exclusively battery powered electronic devices such as for example portable electronic devices. The portable electronic devices can be mobile communication devices cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless communication devices tablet computers which can be referred to simply as tablets and the like personal digital assistants PDAs cameras calculators mobile gaming devices personal audio video devices etc. Such portable electronic devices may be handheld that is sized and shaped to be held and carried in a human hand and used while held or carried.

A portable electronic device can be a two way communication device with data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The portable electronic device which may be referred to as a mobile device may also have the capability to allow voice communication. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device. To aid the reader in understanding the structure of the mobile device reference will now be made to .

Shown in is a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a portable electronic device . The portable electronic device includes a number of components such as a main processor that controls the overall operation of the portable electronic device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through a radio frequency RF communication subsystem . Data received by the portable electronic device can be decompressed and decrypted by decoder operating according to any suitable decompression techniques e.g. YK decompression and other known techniques and encryption techniques e.g. using an encryption techniques such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES or Advanced Encryption Standard AES . The RF communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this exemplary embodiment of the portable electronic device the RF communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the RF communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications. The RF communication subsystem can comprise a baseband processor that manages the functions of the communication system .

Although the wireless network associated with portable electronic device is a GSM GPRS wireless network in one exemplary implementation other wireless networks may also be associated with the portable electronic device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that may be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks as mentioned above and future third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS. Some other examples of data centric networks include Wi Fi 802.11 Mobitex and DataTAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems.

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone short range communications a battery pack and other device subsystems . The display can include a touch sensitive display.

Some of the subsystems of the portable electronic device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The portable electronic device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the portable electronic device . To identify a subscriber the portable electronic device requires a SIM RUIM card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM card is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the portable electronic device and to personalize the portable electronic device among other things. Without the SIM RUIM card the portable electronic device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM RUIM card into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Message Service MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM card includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM RUIM card is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM card can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM RUIM card is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical portable electronic device. The SIM RUIM card may store additional subscriber information for a portable electronic device as well including datebook or calendar data and recent call data. Alternatively user identification data and other data items can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The portable electronic device is a battery powered device that includes the battery pack which contains among other components two or more rechargeable electrical energy sources such as for example batteries . In at least some embodiments the batteries can be smart batteries with an embedded microprocessor that can communicate with the main processor and that can control operations related to the batteries. The battery assembly can provide a voltage V to the portable electronic device e.g. V can be provided to the main processor or to any other power consuming component of the portable electronic device . Although current technology makes use of batteries future technologies such as micro fuel cells or capacitor based power supplies may provide the power to the portable electronic device . As will be understood by the skilled worker batteries micro fuel cells capacitor based based power supplies or any other device that can produce an electrical output usable by the portable electronic device can all be referred to as electrical energy sources which may be rechargeable.

The portable electronic device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the portable electronic device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the portable electronic device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the portable electronic device or some other suitable storage element in the portable electronic device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages may be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the portable electronic device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the portable electronic device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events appointments and task items. The PIM can also organize and manage any voice mails recorded on the portable electronic device . A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the portable electronic device subscriber s corresponding data items stored in or accessible by a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the portable electronic device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the portable electronic device subscriber s office computer system.

The portable electronic device also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the portable electronic device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the portable electronic device is authorized to interface with.

The connect module includes a set of application programming interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the portable electronic device to allow the portable electronic device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the portable electronic device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass information technology IT policy commands from the host system to the portable electronic device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

The subset of software applications can also include high power applications . Examples of such high power applications include for example three dimensional gaming web browsing video conference calling and video recording.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the portable electronic device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the portable electronic device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the portable electronic device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary input output I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the portable electronic device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the portable electronic device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the portable electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the portable electronic device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the portable electronic device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the portable electronic device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the portable electronic device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the portable electronic device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the RF communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard may be an alphanumeric keyboard a telephone type keypad or both. Alternatively instead of having a keyboard keyboard functionality can be provided to the user through a touch sensitive display that may be included in the display . Other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed item may be transmitted over the wireless network through the RF communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of the portable electronic device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the portable electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The scope of the present disclosure encompasses the detection of electrical connection faults in arrangements of electrical energy sources electrically connected to each other. The detection of such faults allows in in some embodiments to adjust a charge current being supplied to the electrical energy sources to charge the electrical energy sources. In other embodiments detection of such faults allows to adjust a supply current being supplied by the electrical energy sources to an electrical load.

Alternatively not all the components of the battery pack shown in need to be disposed located in the battery pack . shows another example of a battery pack that has the controllable charge current source located outside the battery pack . That is the controllable charge current source is located elsewhere in the portable electronic device . The current monitoring circuitry can include the processor shown at which can receive sensed monitored current values from current sensing circuitry through any suitable communication protocol such as for example the 1C protocol 1wire bus system management bus SMBUS or the like. In accordance with as a function of the sensed current values the processor can control the controllable charge current source shown at .

In accordance with the present disclosure shows an example of an arrangement of three batteries A B and C in the battery pack of . In the batteries A B and C have nominal voltages Va Vb and Vc and internal resistance values r r and rrespectively. The batteries A B and C are electrically connected to the controllable charge current source and to sense resistors r and r. The controllable charge current source provides a charge current in accordance with a control signal provided by the current monitor circuitry . As will be described in greater detail below the control signal can be a function of current values sensed by the current monitor circuitry at sense resistors r and r or can be a function of the ratio of current flowing through sense resistors r and r. The sense resistors r and r can have any suitable resistance values. For example the resistance value of each sense resistor can be any value ranging from 10 to 100 m or any other value that produces a measurable voltage drop. In some embodiments the voltage drop across the sense resistor can be considerably less that the voltage of a battery and does not cause excessive resistive losses. The batteries B and C are electrically connected to each other in parallel. In the embodiment of the positive electrodes of the batteries B and C are electrically connected to one end of the sense resistors r. The negative electrodes of the batteries B and C are electrically connected to the negative electrode of the battery A and to the negative electrode of controllable charge current source . The positive electrode of the battery A is electrically connected to the sense resistors r and to the sense resistor r. The sense resistor r is connected to the positive electrode of controllable charge current source . The batteries A B and C can have any suitable nominal voltage and be based upon any suitable battery chemistry. Each battery can have a voltage different than that of the other batteries. Embodiments where one or more than one of the individual batteries A B and C would be replaced by an arrangement of batteries electrically connected to each other e.g. in series or in parallel in any suitable configuration are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also shown in are three closed loops namely the closed loop defined by the nodes a b f e the closed loop defined by the nodes b c g f and the closed loop defined by the nodes c d h g. A closed loop can also be referred to as Kirchhoff loop. As such the embodiment of shows that the controllable charge current source the sense resistor the sensor resistor the battery A and the battery are electrically connected to each other and define a first closed loop a b f e and a second closed loop b c g f . In the present embodiment the first closed loop a b f e comprises the controllable charge current source the sense resistor and the battery A. Also in the present embodiment the second closed loop b c g f comprises the controllable charge current source the sense resistor the sense resistor and the battery B. As will be discussed below in more detail the sense resistor and the sense resistor or on different distinct current branches.

The faults can be caused by a break in a flex circuit or any other type of electrical conductor connecting the electrical components of the electrical circuits shown at .

The current monitor circuitry can monitor I r and I r and adjust the charge current provided by the charge controller circuitry as follows. The current monitoring circuitry can monitor I r and I r continuously periodically or in any other suitable way. For example when the maximum charge current of each of the batteries A B and C is the same and equal to I and when the current monitor circuitry monitors senses that there are no faults by measuring I r 2 I r 3 the current monitor circuitry will communicate this information to the charge controller circuitry which will set the charge current such that each battery draws a current of I. That is to the charge controller circuitry will provide a charge current of to 3 I. This allows for rapid charging recharging of the batteries.

Further when the current monitor circuitry monitors senses that I r I r that is when there is at least one fault the current monitor circuitry will communicate this information to the charge controller circuitry which will set the charge current to a value such that each battery apt to receive current receive its maximum charge current Imax. That is the charge controller circuitry will provide a charge current of 2 I.

Furthermore when the current monitor circuitry monitors senses that I r 0 that is when there is at least one fault the current monitor circuitry will communicate this information to the charge controller circuitry which will set the charge current to I as there is only one battery to be charged.

Additionally when the current monitor circuitry monitors senses that I r 0.5I r that is when there is at least one fault or at least one fault the current monitor circuitry will communicate this information to the charge controller circuitry which will set the charge current to 2 I.

When a fault and a fault are present i.e. when only the battery B is electrically connected to the controllable charge current circuitry the maximum charge current should be set to Iin order not to exceed the safe charge current limit. Similarly when a fault and a fault are present the maximum charge current should be set to I.

However as the measured current relationship I r I r is the same whether there is a fault or two faults and or and it would be safer to set the charge current to Iat all times when I r I r is observed. Additional sense resistors may be added to other distinct branches of the electrical circuit. Monitoring by the current monitor circuitry of the electrical current flowing through these additional resistors would allow determining if in fact more than one fault is present. Such additional resistors and branches are optional however it may be satisfactory in some cases to determine that a fault has occurred and notifying a user of a fault prompting a repair to be made and it may be less important to determine how many faults have occurred or what the particular faults may be.

Monitoring the individual current flowing through the sense resistors and can include monitoring the ratio of the currents flowing through sense resistors and . The current monitoring circuitry may be equipped with current dividing circuitry that take the current values measured at the sense resistors and as inputs and outputs the ratio of the current values.

It can also be shown that for any of the faults L to N the current flowing through sense resistor r and the current flowing through the sense resistor r are related as per 

The current monitor circuitry can monitor I r and I r and adjust the charge current provided by the charge controller circuitry as follows. For example when the maximum charge current of each of the batteries A C and D is the same and equal to I and when the current monitor circuitry monitors senses that I r 3 I r 5 the current monitor circuitry will communicate this information to the charge controller circuitry which will set the charge current to 4 I.

Further when the current monitor circuitry monitors senses that I r 0 that is when there is at least one fault the current monitor circuitry will communicate this information to the charge controller circuitry which will set the charge current to I.

Additionally when the current monitor circuitry monitors senses that I r 2I r 3 that is when there is at least one fault or at least one fault or at least one fault the current monitor circuitry will communicate this information to the charge controller circuitry which will set the charge current to 3 I. Also when the current monitor circuitry monitors senses that I r 0.5 I r that is when there is at least one fault or at least one fault or at least one fault the current monitor circuitry will communicate this information to the charge controller circuitry which will set the charge current to 2 I. As such the current monitor circuitry can control the controllable charge current circuitry as a function of a ratio of the currents flowing through the sense resistors and .

In the sense resistors and have one of their ends directly electrically connected to each other at the three branch node and thus have the three branch node between them. Also in the sense resistor has one of its ends connected to the controllable charge circuitry which is electrically connected to the three branch node . The battery is electrically connected to the three branch node and to the sense resistor . As such the sense resistors and also have a second three branch node the three branch node between them. Further in the sense resistor is on the current branch that spans nodes and and that includes the controllable charge current circuitry . The current branch in question is shown as current branch in . Also in the sense resistor is on the current branch that spans the nodes and and that includes the battery . This current branch is shown as current branch in . The current branch is distinct from the current branch .

Further even though the embodiments described above referred to batteries rechargeable batteries any other suitable type of rechargeable electrical energy source may be used instead of or in concert with batteries. For example capacitor based electrical energy sources.

At action the ratio of currents in a pair of current sensing devices comprised in the electrical energy source arrangement is measured to obtain a measured ratio. The current sensing devices can be sense resistors e.g. sense resistor and shown at . The ratio can be measured at the output of a divider circuit comprised in current monitor circuitry.

At action the measured ratio is compared to pre determined ratio values. In general a pre determined value includes any value or range of values decided upon explicitly or implicitly at any time before the comparison . In a typical implementation one or more pre determined ratio values may be values that have been stored in memory such as flash memory . Each pre determined ratio value can be indicative of the presence of a particular fault in the electrical energy source arrangement and thus indicate the maximum allowable charge current to be provided to the electrical energy source arrangement to charge the electrical energy sources safely.

At action subsequent the comparison at action a match is identified between the measured ratio and the pre determined ratio values. The match indicates the maximum charge current that should be provided to the electrical energy source arrangement. If the current provided at action is different than that maximum charge current indicated by the match of action then in accordance to the match the charge current provided to the electrical energy source arrangement is set adjusted at action to the maximum charge current value for this particular match.

The method of the present disclosure can also include an action that determines in accordance with the match determined at action if there is a fault in the electrical energy source arrangement. If there is a fault an indication such as a notification that is visual audible tactile or a combination thereof can be provided or supplied to the user of the electrical energy source arrangement at action . When the electrical energy source arrangement is part of a portable electronic device such as portable electronic device of the indication can be provided in any suitable manner or form such as for example in the form of a message or pictogram displayed on the display or in the form of an audible signal output at the speaker or in the form of an haptic signal when the portable electronic device is equipped with vibrating elements or in any other suitable manner. By providing the indication to the user the user can take action in terms of replacing or repairing the electronic device containing the electrical energy source arrangement.

At action a current is measured in a first current sensing device to obtain a first measured current. At action a current is measured in a second current sensing device to obtain a second measured current. The first and current sensing devices can be current sense resistors Hall effect sensors or any other suitable current sensing element across which a voltage drop is proportional to the electrical current traversing the current sensing element.

At action the first measured current and the second measured current are compared to pre determined current values. At action a match between the first measured current and the pre determined current values is identified. At action a match between the second measured current and the pre determined current values is identified.

If the current provided at action is different than that maximum charge current indicated by the matches obtained at actions and then in accordance with the matches the charge current provided to the electrical energy source arrangement is set adjusted at action to the maximum charge current value for this particular pair of matches.

At action the matches obtained at actions and are used to determine if there is a fault connection fault in the electrical energy source arrangement. If there is a fault an indication can be provided to the user of the electrical energy source arrangement at action . When the electrical energy source arrangement is part of a portable electronic device such as portable electronic device of the indication can be provided in any suitable manner or form such as for example in the form of a message or pictogram displayed on the display or in the form of an audible signal output at the speaker or in the form of an haptic signal when the portable electronic device is equipped with vibrating elements or in any other suitable manner. By providing the indication to the user the user can take action in terms of replacing or repairing the electronic device containing the electrical energy source arrangement.

In the embodiments described above it was shown how electrical connection faults can be detected during a charging operation of electrical energy sources and how the charge current can be set to a safe charge current in accordance with the detected faults. As will be described below in other embodiments similar principles can be applied to detect electrical connection faults in an electrical circuit comprising electrical energy sources during a discharging operation of the electrical energy sources i.e. when the electrical energy sources provide power to a load.

Returning to in accordance with Kirchhoff s circuit laws it can be show that in the example of when a supply current is provided to the load the current flowing through r I r is equal to two thirds the current flowing through r I r . That is when the voltage of each of the batteries A and have the same value and when the internal resistance of each of the three batteries is the same then I r 2 I r 3.

Also shown in are three closed loops namely the closed loop defined by the nodes a b f e the closed loop defined by the nodes b c g f and the closed loop defined by the nodes c d h g. A closed loop can also be referred to as Kirchhoff loop. As such the embodiment of shows that the load the sense resistor the sensor resistor the battery A and the battery are electrically connected to each other and define a first closed loop a b f e and a second closed loop b c g f . In the present embodiment the first closed loop a b f e comprises the load the sense resistor and the battery A. Also in the present embodiment the second closed loop b c g f comprises the load the sense resistor the sense resistor and the battery . The sense resistor and the sense resistor or on different distinct current branches.

The current monitoring circuitry can monitor I r and I r continuously periodically or in any other suitable way. In accordance with as a function of the monitored currents I r and I r the current monitoring circuitry can provide commands to the load . For example when any fault is detected the current monitoring circuitry can control the load to reduce its power consumption in order to delay the next battery charging operation. In turn the load can turn off or use less frequently some of its components. As an example in the case of portable electronic device such as that shown at upon receiving notification from the current monitoring circuitry the processor can to turn off the radio frequency communication subsystem or reduce the display intensity of the display . Additionally the processor can display a warning on the display to advise the user that a fault in the battery pack has occurred and that servicing might be required.

As will be understood by the skilled worker the controllable charge current source shown in the embodiments of can be replaced by the load shown in the embodiments of to arrive at other embodiments that regard the detection of electrical connection faults in electrical circuits comprising electrical energy sources during a discharging operation of the electrical energy sources i.e. when the electrical energy sources provide power to a load.

In other embodiments the batteries A B and C can be substituted with any other suitable electrical energy sources such as for example fuel cells solar cells and the like. In such an embodiment where the batteries A and C are replaced by fuel cells the load can include a battery being charged by the fuel cells and a power converter disposed between the fuel cells and the battery. The power converter converts an input current level provided by the fuel cells into an output current level that is provided to the battery to charge the battery. The power converter can be set by the current monitoring circuitry to convert the current level provided by the fuel cells to the current level required to charge the battery.

When no connection faults are present in the fuel cell arrangement of the fuel cells A B and C will together provide an input current I to the load . The power converter which when nominally set to convert the input current I will convert Iinto the pre determined target charge current I of the battery . That is t the power converter converts Iinto I. If for example a connection fault that disconnects the fuel cell A from the other elements of the arrangement of and the fuels cells provide a current equal to 2 I 3 the current monitor circuitry will notify the load of this fault and the power converter will change its conversion settings such that the power converter converts 2 I 3 into I.

In general and in the context of the present disclosure two components are electrically connected when an electrical change caused by or affecting one such as a change in voltage or current can result in an electrical change in the other or when an electrical signal sent by one can be received by the other. The two components need not be directly electrically connected that is there may be other elements interposed between them and they may be but need not be proximate to one another. Electrically connected also includes the concept that components may be physically connected but the electrical circuit connections between them may be broken or completed by for example switching circuitry.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device that is powered by a battery pack effectively seals the battery pack within its housing. That is in those embodiments the battery pack is not accessible to the user of the electronic device without particular tools and equipment. In such embodiments as removal of the battery pack cannot generally be effected by the user a simple substitution of the battery pack with a fresh battery pack is not possible in situations where the user observes inadequate battery lifetime or excessive charge time. Advantageously the present disclosure allows the user to be notified when faults electrical connection faults are detected during charging of the electronic device. Upon receiving such notifications the user can make appropriate plans such as servicing the electronic device. A further potential advantage is the techniques described herein can be applied to a variety of portable electronic devices power systems and energy sources. In the case of portable electronic devices in general and handheld devices in particular the techniques described herein can be implemented with low cost in terms of added size or weight. Further the potential for improved safety that may be afforded may be in addition to and may act in cooperation with other safety features.

In the preceding description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the disclosure. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the disclosure. In other instances well known electrical structures and circuits are shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the disclosure. For example specific details are not provided as to whether the embodiments of the disclosure described herein are implemented as a software routine hardware circuit firmware or a combination thereof.

Embodiments of the disclosure can be represented as a software product stored in a machine readable medium also referred to as a computer readable medium a processor readable medium or a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein . The machine readable medium can be any suitable tangible medium including magnetic optical or electrical storage medium including a diskette compact disk read only memory CD ROM memory device volatile or non volatile or similar storage mechanism. The machine readable medium can contain various sets of instructions code sequences configuration information or other data which when executed cause a processor to perform steps in a method according to an embodiment of the disclosure. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other instructions and operations necessary to implement the described disclosure can also be stored on the machine readable medium. Software running from the machine readable medium can interface with circuitry to perform the described tasks.

The above described embodiments of the disclosure are intended to be examples only. Alterations modifications and variations can be effected to the particular embodiments by those of skill in the art without departing from the scope of the disclosure which is defined solely by the claims appended hereto.

