---

title: Multi tray refrigerated chest for rapidly quenching beverages
abstract: The disclosure features various embodiments and aspects of a chest for quenching beverages. The chest can include a tank for holding a chilled mixture of ice and water, an ice maker adapted for making ice having an output for ejecting ice into a conduit in fluid communication with the tank, and a plurality of quench trays disposed above the tank for holding containers of beverages located in first and second positions. The trays can be filled with cold water by way of a conduit in fluid communication with the tank. The quench trays can include a compartment defined by a bottom and a plurality of walls, and defining therein a plurality of rows for aligning and containing a plurality of beverage containers. The drawers can further include at least one drain orifice configured to guide water out of the quench tray.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549871&OS=08549871&RS=08549871
owner: 
number: 08549871
owner_city: West Simsbury
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130401
---
This patent application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 798 394 filed Mar. 15 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 745 033 filed Dec. 21 2012. The subject matter of the present patent application is also related to U.S. Pat. No. 8 161 769 issued Apr. 24 2012. U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 798 394 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 161 769 are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present disclosure relates to a refrigerated chest and related methods and machine readable programs for the quenching of beverages or other comestible items particularly the rapid quenching of beverages to a pre selected temperature and visual or other notification of when beverages are quenched to a certain temperature i.e. ready to consume . The present disclosure also relates to mobile applications and other implementations for controlling such devices.

The use of traditional ice chests for cooling of beverages and maintaining the cooled temperature is well known in the prior art. However the simple use of ice and water for these purposes has been problematic in that it can take thirty to sixty minutes to cool the beverages and the user has no way of visually determining when the drinks are cooled to the ideal temperature. In short it has been difficult to determine if the beverages were sufficiently cooled or even over cooled and further difficult to maintain the optimum temperature for prolonged periods after the optimum temperature has been achieved. Traditional ice chests have typically not provided the level of elegance and luxury sought by many of today s consumers particularly those who pride themselves with extravagant outdoor grills and patios.

Moreover users of ice chests have had to carry their own very heavy ice bags to such chests known in the art and fill those chests with ice. This ice melts to a point where the water becomes warm and turns once cool beverages to warm beverages. The present disclosure provides solutions for this and other problems as described herein.

In general in a first aspect the disclosure features a chest for quenching beverages including a tank for holding a chilled mixture of ice and water an ice maker adapted for making ice having an output for ejecting ice into a conduit in fluid communication with the tank and a plurality of quench trays disposed above the tank for holding containers of beverages located in first and second positions and which are filled with the cold water by way of a conduit in fluid communication with the tank the quench trays including a compartment defined by a bottom and a plurality of walls and defining therein a plurality of rows for aligning and containing a plurality of beverage containers the drawers further including at least one drain orifice configured to guide water out of the quench tray.

In some implementations at least one of the quench trays can include a pull out drawer mounted on a track and the pull out drawer can be adapted and configured to evacuate cooling water contained therein when the drawer is pulled outwardly from a retracted position. If desired each tray can define a plurality of openings therethrough for guiding water out of the quench tray. At least one of the trays can define the plurality of rows therein by way of a plurality of dividers including raised nodes configured for the placement of a plurality of containers of beverages therebetween. The dividers can include a grate that is configured to be received by a longitudinal groove formed along the base of the divider. The grate can be lifted out of the groove and rotated from an upwardly extending position to a horizontal resting position. In some embodiments an upper quench tray can be stationary and a quench tray below the upper tray can be pulled out through the side of the chest. the upper quench tray can be accessible by way of an opening on a top surface of the chest. In accordance with various embodiments cooling can be effectuated by controlling the flow of chilled water over the beverage containers to enhance the rate of heat transfer to a desired extent.

In accordance with a further aspect the flow of cold water to each tray can be controlled by the control system in response to temperature data received from the tray. For example the tray may have one or more temperature sensors in one or more locations. The sensor placement can be indicative of the temperatures of the tray in different locations and or individual temperature sensors can be provided to indicate the temperature of the tray proximate each beverage. If desired the flow of cold water to each tray can be controlled by the control system in response to opening or closing one of the trays. Moreover if desired the flow of cold water to each tray can be controlled by the control system in response to data received from the tray indicating that the contents of the tray has changed.

In further exemplary implementations the chest can further include a control system for controlling the cooling of the chest. The control system can be controlled manually via a control panel mounted on the chest. The control system can be adapted and configured to communicate with a control device over a computer network to facilitate control of the chest. For example the control device can be a smart phone among other devices.

Thus in some implementations a chest is provided for quenching beverages. The chest includes a tank for holding a chilled mixture of ice and water an ice maker adapted for making ice having an output for ejecting ice into a conduit in fluid communication with the tank and a plurality of quench trays disposed above the tank for holding containers of beverages located in first and second positions and which are filled with the cold water by way of a conduit in fluid communication with the tank. The quench trays preferably include a compartment defined by a bottom and a plurality of walls and define therein a plurality of rows for aligning and containing a plurality of beverage containers. At least one of the trays can further include at least one drain orifice configured to guide water out of the quench tray.

In some implementations at least one of the quench trays can include a pull out drawer mounted on a track. The pull out drawer can be adapted and configured to evacuate cooling water contained therein when the drawer is pulled outwardly from a retracted position. If desired each tray can define a plurality of openings therethrough for guiding water out of the quench tray. At least one of the trays can define the plurality of rows therein by way of a plurality of dividers including raised nodes configured for the placement of a plurality of containers of beverages therebetween. At least one of the dividers can include a grate that is configured to be received by a longitudinal groove formed along the base of the divider. The grate can be lifted out of the groove and rotated from an upwardly extending position to a horizontal resting position. An upper quench tray can be stationary in some embodiments and a quench tray below the upper tray can be pulled out through the side of the chest if desired. When provided the upper quench tray can be accessible for example by way of an opening on a top surface of the chest.

In some implementations the chest can further include a control system for controlling the cooling of the chest. The control system can be controlled manually in some implementations via a control panel mounted on the chest. Additionally or alternatively if desired the control system can be adapted and configured to communicate with a control device over a computer network to facilitate control of the chest. The control device can be for example a smart phone a tablet a stationary panel mounted in a fixture or wall a wristwatch a remote computer and the like.

In some embodiments the flow of cold water to each tray can be controlled by the control system in response to temperature data received from the tray. If desired the flow of cold water to each tray can be controlled by the control system in response to opening or closing one of the trays. Moreover the flow of cold water to each tray can be controlled by the control system in response to data received from the tray indicating that the contents of the tray has changed. In some implementations at least one of the quench trays can include a plurality of temperature sensors in different locations across the tray. The temperature sensors can be configured to provide temperature data to the controller. The controller can be configured to adjust the amount of cooling water directed to each tray in response to temperature data received from the temperature sensors. In some embodiments sufficient sensors can be provided in the tray to indicate the temperature of the tray proximate each beverage.

In accordance with further aspects cooling of beverages in the chest can be effectuated by directing a flow of chilled water over the beverage containers. If desired the flow of cooling water can cause the beverage containers to rotate in place to enhance heat transfer from the beverage containers to the cooling water.

In still further implementations the quench tray drawer can be disconnected from its source of cooling water when it is pulled out. The source of cooling water for the quench tray drawer can include a fitment proximate the back of the drawer that is received by a cooling water supply line when the drawer is closed. The supply of cooling water to the drawer can be deactivated when the drawer is pulled out. The supply of cooling water can be deactivated for example by turning off a pump and or by closing or adjusting a valve.

The above advantages and features are of representative embodiments only and are presented only to assist in understanding the disclosure. It should be understood that these are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims. Additional features and advantages of embodiments of the disclosure will become apparent in the following description from the drawings and from the claims.

Referring now to the drawings in detail wherein like numerals indicate like elements throughout the several view one sees from the various drawings that the cooling chest to includes a front wall a rear wall side walls and a bottom wall all in relatively fixed locations thereby forming an interior cooling volume . The cooling chest to also includes a right side counter as shown in C and B and a left side counter on the top surface of the cooling chest to as shown in . The top surface of the chest also includes dual top lids or access doors which can be in the closed position as shown in or in an open position wherein one door slides along the top or bottom of the other respectively. The perimeter of the opening containing the doors includes a suitable gasket to prevent heat inflow. Similarly a generally linear gasket is located along an edge of one of the doors for abutting against an edge of the other door thus providing a cooling gasket at the junction of the two doors when the chest is closed.

The dual top lids or access doors each includes its own handle which allow for the access doors to be lifted up and or slid as desired so that the doors can overlap. In one embodiment the doors can be hinged at the sides and opened from center mounted handles. In another embodiment the handles can be used to slide each access door on corresponding tracks not shown located on the interior of the lateral edges of the rear wall . Preferably a linear gasket is used at the edge of one of the doors to provide sealing against the adjacent door when the doors are closed and a perimeter seal is provided around the opening in which the doors are situated in order to reduce heat transfer in that location.

A handle connects the right side counter and the left side counter of the cooling chest . If desired handle can merely serve the function of providing a means to move the cooling chest . In another embodiment the entire top assembly of cooling chest can be hinged at the back of the top of the cooling chest and the handle can be lifted to access beverages and to examine and maintain the interior portion of the cooling chest. The front wall as illustrated in contains a front access door with a latch which when pulled can be opened downward. As illustrated the bottom wall of the cooling chest includes protrusions or legs that extend from each corner and that may include castors or wheels as desired not shown . Legs act to enhance stability of the cooling chest such as during movement and transport and also act to prevent the cooling chest from being moved too closely to a wall to permit ventilation clearance for the cooling chest . Ventilation perforation sections or screening as desired are provided in each side panel to permit air circulation to facilitate cooling of the icemaker and the refrigeration process. As illustrated perforation sections include perforations in a pattern of varying density from left to right. It will be appreciated though that any suitable types of perforations louvers screens or the like are suitable.

The walls and access doors can be formed from a variety of materials such as aluminum stainless steel painted sheet metal injection molded plastic or composite materials fiber reinforced resin materials and the like in order to provide a sleek elegant appearance while maintaining the desired temperature insulating capabilities. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these materials are merely illustrative and not intended to be exhaustive.

As further shown in the cooling chest may contain a plurality of beverage containers in its interior cooling volume . In beverage containers are neatly packed and located in the upper quench tray and may be similarly situated in two lower trays as illustrated and as discussed in further detail below. Such beverage containers can be accessible by the opening or removal of the dual top lids or access doors . Likewise beverage containers can be loaded into the upper quench tray when the dual top lids or access doors are slid open or removed as is illustrated in . illustrates the top view of the dual top lids or access doors . illustrates the bottom view of the dual top lids or access doors .

As illustrated in the upper quench tray includes an empty rectangular bin with a hollow interior designed to hold a generous quantity of beverage containers. The bottom surface of the upper quench tray can include a plurality of pairs of rows that in turn include pairs of openings which allow for tray dividers to be attached to the upper quench tray . Each row culminates into openings defined by a parametric slit located on the rear interior wall of the upper quench tray which allows for water be guided out of the quench tray. The upper quench tray can be made from a plastic metal and or composite materials as desired.

As mentioned above illustrate a single tray divider or components thereof before it is fitted into the upper quench tray . Tray dividers contain a linear center groove spanning the length of the tray divider . The groove is designed to receive the grate in a generally vertical orientation. Tray dividers also contain a plurality of raised divider portions or bosses which contain a pair of recesses on either side of center groove that correspond to pair of bosses located on the bottom surface of the raised nodes . illustrates a bottom rail portion of the tray divider . illustrate upper and lower views of the raised nodes which attach to the lower portion of the tray divider via bosses in the bottom of the nodes interfitting with recesses such as by interference fit adhesive or welding for example. The raised nodes help retain the grate in place and to permit rotation of the grate to permit the grate to be rotated and pulled up into its upright position as well as flat position. Tray dividers and the raised nodes can be made from plastic metal and or composite materials as desired.

As illustrated in the tank too is generally rectangular in shape and includes a front wall a left wall a right wall a back wall and a bottom which cooperate in part to define a lower tank portion extending from the bottom of the tank to three water conduits on the left side of the tank too as illustrated in . Tank too defines an upper peripheral flange at its upper extremity at the top of each of the front back left and right walls and thus defines a horizontally oriented rectangular opening at the top of the tank. As illustrated upper peripheral flange in of tank is adapted and configured to rest on crossmembers forming the chassis .

Tank contains therein a backing plate including two horizontally oriented flanges or shelves and a plurality of openings of different shapes and sizes. The backing plate acts as a rear stop for drawers and each shelf is adapted to snugly fit with the rear lower surface of each drawer .

The front wall of tank similarly defines a generally rectangular opening in the front thereof for permitting the passage of two pull out quench drawers therethrough. As illustrated in the right side of tank includes an extension having a J shaped cross section taken in a horizontal plane defining an elongate vertical gap between an edge of the extension and the right wall of the tank for receiving and mating with the ice maker discussed below. Tank further defines a rectangular opening in its right side for aligning with the icemaker assembly as illustrated in .

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure the cooling chest includes an ice maker assembly that allows for the continuous production of ice which in turn allows for the continuous production and flow of cold water over the ice situated in the vertical hopper discussed in detail below. A suitable icemaker assembly should be able to produce between about 10 and 100 pounds of ice per hour for example. The ice maker is adapted to interfit with the J shaped extension on the tank to define a vertical hopper with a generally rectangular cross section for receiving ice made by the ice maker.

The continuous flow of cold water over the ice in the hopper allows for the continuous cooling of beverage containers located in the plurality of quenching trays. The continuous flow may be interrupted at any point by turning off pump s not shown located underneath the tank and above the bottom of the cooler that are used to circulate cooling water through the cooler. Turning off the pumps can be achieved manually through a switch such as by a switch that is activated when a drawer is pulled out or when one of the top doors is opened.

The ice maker is adapted to make ice filling up the hopper until reaching an upper limit switch not shown . The limit switch can be a mechanical arm and switch as known in the art that deactivates the ice maker when a predetermined ice level is reached or may alternatively include an electric eye that deactivates the ice maker when the desired level is reached. The bottom of the hopper is in fluid communication with the bottom of the tank by way of rectangular opening in the bottom of the tank too. Water in the bottom of the tank can flow into the bottom of the hopper and is cooled by the column of ice. Ice can similarly migrate into the lower portion of tank by way of opening if desired. Water can be circulated for example by directing cold water out of one of the conduits at the bottom of the hopper through one or more pumps not shown and up into conduits for feeding the lower middle and upper trays of the cooler respectively and or back into the tank too by way of conduits on the left side of the tank too. Conduits can similarly be used to regulate the level of water in tank by causing overflow that reaches the conduits to be directed to a drain and or reservoir as desired.

Top and bottom views of the middle and lower quench trays or drawers are illustrated in . The drawers can be essentially identical or may differ as desired. Each drawer can have dividers similar to the upper quench tray with collapsible gratings as desired. As illustrated longitudinal dividers run from the back of the drawer to the front of the drawer inside of the drawer and longitudinally oriented C channels are attached to the bottom of the drawers for additional support. A conduit can be provided within one of the dividers as illustrated in for directing cooling water from an input at the back of the drawer up to the front of the drawer. Alternatively water may simply enter the drawer from the back of the drawer. The cooling water thus can be directed into the front of the drawer and flow backward over the beverage containers. The rate of cooling can thus be controlled by controlling the flow of chilled water over the beverage containers to enhance the rate of heat transfer to a desired extent. It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that directing a flow of cold water over the beverage containers will cause greater heat transfer than merely submerging beverages in cold water. It will be further appreciated that the level of water in each quench tray can be controlled by adjusting the volume flow rate of water into the drawer as well as the size of the drain orifice or orifices in the drawer. In some embodiments cooling water is directed through the drawer at a level that does not cause the beverage containers to move. In such an embodiment the heat transfer from the beverages to the cooling water is driven principally by the temperature differential between the beverage container and the cooling water as well as the material from which the beverage container is made. In other implementations the cooling water is permitted to rise to a level to permit the beverage containers to float slightly and rotate in place. In such implementations the rate of heat transfer can be enhanced as a result of a larger surface area of the container being contacted by water as well as the fluid within the container mixing while it is rotating causing the fluid in the container to come down to temperature more quickly. In some instances where the containers are oriented perpendicularly with respect to the flow this effect can be enhanced. If desired each drawer can be slanted from front to back to facilitate the flow of water toward the back of each drawer. Drawers also can each include a handle that is integral as illustrated or that may be separately attached. In the illustrated embodiment drawers are made from sheet metal and the handles are integrally formed with the drawers.

Each drawer as illustrated includes dump orifices along the rear portion of the bottom of the drawer that are positioned over horizontal flanges on the bottom of the tank when the drawer is pushed in. Similarly tabs defined by perimetric grooves are disposed in the back face of each drawer which can be aligned with or staggered with openings in backing plate . Both dump orifices and grooves are intended to facilitate rapid evacuation of water from either drawer at the moment the drawer is slid forward so that the dump orifices are no longer aligned with and top of the horizontal flange and when grooves are no longer abutting backing plate . At this moment the conduit also disconnects from the feed line e.g. as illustrated in . The net effect of these actions is that water may flow freely through the dump orifices and grooves causing the quench drawer to empty in a matter of a few seconds. If faster evacuation is desired tabs may be bend upwardly or removed to increase the outflow area for the cooling water. When the drawer is pushed back into the chest all the way the water connection o ring reconnects to tapered end of conduit to place conduit into fluid communication with feed line e.g. and the leaking through dump holes is substantially eliminated or at least substantially decreased by effectively blocking the dump holes and grooves by way of shelves bow and backing plate

As referenced above the drawers are fed with cold water by way of interconnecting with a fitment o ring at the back of the cooler such as between backing plate and back wall of tank that is fed by vertically oriented feed lines wherein feed line feeds lower drawer and upper feed line feeds upper drawer . Similarly feed line feeds upper tray . As alluded to above is a cross sectional view of lower slidable drawer showing a cooling conduit in the drawer being received by an output of one of the feed tubes . When fully pushed into the chest drawer abuts against the backing plate of the tank and fluid communication is established between the feed and the drawer permitting the drawer to fill with water to quench the beverages. Thus when the middle and lower quench trays are pulled out and or removed through the front access door water that was contained in the quench tray is drained as described above. This allows for a beverage to be removed from the middle and lower quench tray without water substantially being spilled or leaked outside of the cooling chest thereby also helping to prevent a slippery surface e.g. patio .

Thus in certain aspects the present disclosure allows for the continuous production of ice which is then delivered into the cooling chest. The ice acts as a continuous coolant for water that is guided into the cooling chest though a plurality of pipe fittings. This uninterrupted and if desired continuous flow of cold water is guided through a series of pipes and feeding tubes into the plurality of quench trays which contain beverage containers of various sizes and shapes. Beverages containers are kept submerged in a continuous flow of cold water. Beverages can be loaded and locked into place via an adjustable grate or divider. Beverages can be removed from the upper quench tray from the top access door. Beverages can also be removed by withdrawing the middle and lower quench trays from the front access door as you would pull out a dresser drawer. As the middle or lower quench tray is removed thought the front access door the water contained in the submerged quench trays is drained out through a plurality of openings located on the quench trays that lead to exit feeding tubes to allow for beverages to be removed without the spillage of water.

In another embodiment of the disclosure and as illustrated in the cooling chest may be a relatively smaller portable unit adapted to be movable on wheels with the assistance of a rotatable lift bar and the like. The particular schematic illustrated shows a cooling chest that has portability features similar to a portable electric generator including a pair of wheels a resting post for the opposite end of the unit and a pivoting handle or lift bar at one end that may be pivoted upwardly to lift the end of the cooling chest and roll it on the wheels . Such a portable version of the chest can be powered by a portable power source such a hydrocarbon gas propane an electrochemical fuel cell solar power a generator and the like . The gas can be propane ethanol natural gas a mixture thereof and the like. The source of the gas can be an individualized gas tank such as a propane tank used for an outdoor barbecue or the gas can originate from a different stationary or portable source. Advantageously this can permit the cooling chest to be untethered to an electrical source and be portable for use in a variety of remote locations where electricity may not be available. A chest with these functionalities can be suitable for military operations disaster relief and recovery locations RV parks tailgating events at stadiums and food trucks. In this embodiment of the invention the cooling chest is portable and is preferably filled with a quantity of water that can be recycled with minimal losses so that melted ice can be recycled and turned back into ice. The ice cools the beverages held in the chest and once the ice is melted the chilled water is circulated back into the ice maker for further production of ice. It will be appreciated that such a portable chest can have any or all of the features of the chest that is specifically illustrated but may have any subset of those features such as a plurality of drawers as illustrated in . Preferably the portable cooling chest flowed chilled water over containers therein.

An exemplary control system is depicted in for operating cooling chest as described herein. An operator interface and control console including a controller can be provided on the cooling chest units if desired such as via a touch screen operated programmable controller that can operate the ice maker and pumps to selectively deliver chilled water to each cooling tray via conduits as well as a water input connected to a source not shown via a solenoid in response to various inputs such as beverage temperature cooling water temperature beverage quantity and desired cooling time.

Preferably pumps operate at a desired flow rate continuously or intermittently as desired until a predetermine e.g. preset temperature is achieved in each drawer. Sensors can be mounted in any suitable location on in or proximate each cooling tray to monitor the temperature of the beverages. When the desired temperature is reached for one of the trays the controller can shut off the pump cooling the particular tray and an indicator light buzzer or the like e.g. on control panel or on or near the particular tray can be actuated indicating that the desired temperature in a drawer has been achieved.

If desired in addition or alternatively cooling chest can be operated monitored and controlled remotely via a mobile device such as a smart phone or remote computer terminal via a server . Instructions can be input by a user via the remote mobile device via a server that is in communication with a controller onboard the cooling chest to operate the cooling chest in any desired manner such as via wireless network and the like as described below. When a desired cooling temperature is reached the controller can send a signal via a network to the mobile device indicating that the temperature has been reached. Cooling curves can similarly be graphically represented on the user interface of the mobile device and or on control panel as desired.

Typically a user or users e.g. which may be people or groups of users and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate operation of the system and information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the BQ controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices components of the cooling chest to an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network . For example the BQ controller may be connected to and or communicate with users e.g. operating client device s e.g. including but not limited to personal computer s server s and or various mobile device s including but not limited to cellular telephone s smartphone s e.g. iPhone Blackberry Android OS based phones etc. tablet computer s e.g. Apple iPad HP Slate Motorola Xoom etc. eBook reader s e.g. Amazon Kindle Barnes and Noble s Nook eReader etc. laptop computer s notebook s netbook s gaming console s e.g. XBOX Live Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation Portable etc. portable scanner s and or the like.

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer program other device user and or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The BQ controller may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effect communications operations storage etc. Optionally the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source e.g. optionally the power source may be internal. Optionally a cryptographic processor and or transceivers e.g. ICs may be connected to the system bus. In another embodiment the cryptographic processor and or transceivers may be connected as either internal and or external peripheral devices via the interface bus I O. In turn the transceivers may be connected to antenna s thereby effectuating wireless transmission and reception of various communication and or sensor protocols for example the antenna s may connect to a Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 3.0 FM global positioning system GPS thereby allowing BQ controller to determine its location Broadcom BCM4329FKUBG transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 2.1 EDR FM etc. a Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 receiver chip e.g. GPS an Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 e.g. providing 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications and or the like. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. Of course any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s application embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the BQ controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed BQ embodiments mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the BQ implementations may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the BQ embodiments some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the BQ component collection distributed or otherwise and or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the BQ may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example BQ features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of the BQ features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the BQ system designer administrator somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the function of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational functions such as decoders or simple mathematical functions. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the BQ may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate BQ controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the BQ 

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the BQ thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the BQ controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed BQ architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the BQ controller. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless transceivers 802.11a b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA high speed downlink packet access HSDPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax etc. and or the like. One typical output device may include a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices often are a type of peripheral device see below and may include card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards microphones mouse mice remote controls retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors e.g. accelerometers ambient light GPS gyroscopes proximity etc. styluses and or the like.

Peripheral devices such as other components of the cooling chest system including temperature sensors ice dispensers if provided and the like may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces directly to the interface bus system bus the CPU and or the like. Peripheral devices may be external internal and or part of the BQ controller. Peripheral devices may also include for example an antenna audio devices e.g. line in line out microphone input speakers etc. cameras e.g. still video webcam etc. drive motors ice maker lighting video monitors and or the like.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the BQ controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include the Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7100 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184 Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2100 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory or etc. . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the BQ controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the functionality of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism of course such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the BQ controller. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Nan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the BQ controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the BQ controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the BQ controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the BQ database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the BQ database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the BQ . In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the BQ as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

Computer interfaces in some respects are similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access capabilities operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT XP Vista 7 i.e. Aero Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Of course in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the BQ enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the BQ 

Access to the BQ mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash function passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the BQ may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the BQ component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the BQ and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The BQ database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the BQ database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the BQ database is implemented as a data structure the use of the BQ database may be integrated into another component such as the BQ component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A Users e.g. operators and physicians table may include fields such as but not limited to user id ssn dob first name last name age state address firstline address secondline zipcode devices list contact info contact type alt contact info alt contact type and or the like to refer to any type of enterable data or selections discussed herein. The Users table may support and or track multiple entity accounts. A Clients table may include fields such as but not limited to user id client id client ip client type client model operating system os version app installed flag and or the like. An Apps table may include fields such as but not limited to app ID app name app type OS compatibilities list version timestamp developer ID and or the like. A beverages table including for example heat capacities and other useful parameters of different beverages such as depending on size beverage name beverage size desired coolingtemp cooling time favorite drinker number of beverages current beverage temperature current ambient temperature and or the like. An Parameter table may include fields including the foregoing fields or additional ones such as cool start time cool preset cooling rate and or the like. A Cool Routines table may include a plurality of cooling sequences may include fields such as but not limited to sequence type sequence id flow rate avg water temp cooling time pump setting pump speed pump pressure power level temperature sensor id number temperature sensor location and or the like.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the BQ platform. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the BQ system may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The BQ system may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The BQ database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the BQ database communicates with the BQ component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The BQ component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the BQ component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the BQ systems discussed in the previous figures. As such the BQ component affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks.

The BQ component may transform data collected by the cooling chest or input signals received e.g. from a mobile device into commands for operating the cooler .

The BQ component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions web development environments and libraries e.g. Microsoft s ActiveX Adobe AIR FLEX FLASH AJAX D HTML Dojo Java JavaScript jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SWFObject Yahoo User Interface and or the like WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the BQ server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The BQ component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the BQ component communicates with the BQ database operating systems other program components and or the like. The BQ may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the BQ node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the BQ controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Jini local and remote application program interfaces JavaScript Object Notation JSON Remote Method Invocation RMI SOAP process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing capabilities which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components.

where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because http is part of the grammar syntax and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly with such a grammar a variable Value1 may be inserted into an http post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and or otherwise used to generate the parsing mechanism e.g. a syntax description text file as processed by lex yacc etc. . Also once the parsing mechanism is generated and or instantiated it itself may process and or parse structured data such as but not limited to character e.g. tab delineated text HTML structured text streams XML and or the like structured data. In another embodiment inter application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and or readily available parsers e.g. JSON SOAP and or like parsers that may be employed to parse e.g. communications data. Further the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing but may also be used to parse databases data collections data stores structured data and or the like. Again the desired configuration will depend upon the context environment and requirements of system deployment.

For example in some implementations the BQ controller may be executing a PHP script implementing a Secure Sockets Layer SSL socket server via the information server which listens to incoming communications on a server port to which a client may send data e.g. data encoded in JSON format. Upon identifying an incoming communication the PHP script may read the incoming message from the client device parse the received JSON encoded text data to extract information from the JSON encoded text data into PHP script variables and store the data e.g. client identifying information etc. and or extracted information in a relational database accessible using the Structured Query Language SQL . An exemplary listing written substantially in the form of PHP SQL commands to accept JSON encoded input data from a client device via a SSL connection parse the data to extract variables and store the data to a database is provided below 

Also the following resources may be used to provide example embodiments regarding SOAP parser implementation 

In order to address various issues and advance the art the entirety of this application including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures Appendices and or otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed inventions may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all disclosed embodiments. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the invention or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the invention and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the invention and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other inventions not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed inventions including the right to claim such inventions file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a BQ individual and or enterprise user database configuration and or relational model data type data transmission and or network framework syntax structure and or the like various embodiments of the BQ may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization.

All statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the disclosure as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure.

Descriptions herein of circuitry and method steps and computer programs represent conceptual embodiments of illustrative circuitry and software embodying the principles of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the functions of the various elements shown and described herein may be provided through the use of dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing software in association with appropriate software as set forth herein.

In the disclosure hereof any element expressed as a means for performing a specified function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function including for example a a combination of circuit elements and associated hardware which perform that function or b software in any form including therefore firmware microcode or the like as set forth herein combined with appropriate circuitry for executing that software to perform the function. Applicants thus regard any means which can provide those functionalities as equivalent to those shown herein.

Similarly it will be appreciated that the system and process flows described herein represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable media and so executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown. Moreover the various processes can be understood as representing not only processing and or other functions but alternatively as blocks of program code that carry out such processing or functions.

The methods systems computer programs and mobile devices of the present disclosure as described above and shown in the drawings among other things provide for improved beverage cooling methods systems and machine readable programs for carrying out the same. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the devices methods software programs and mobile devices of the present disclosure without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus it is intended that the present disclosure include modifications and variations that are within the scope of the subject disclosure and equivalents.

