---

title: Interactions for sharing content items in a digital magazine
abstract: A digital magazine server user may identify a content item presented by the digital magazine server to save or present to other digital magazine server users by interacting with a client device presenting the content item. For example, providing a gesture to the client device identifies a content item for presentation to other digital magazine server users. The gesture may begin by the user interacting with a portion of a display device that displays a portion of the content item and continue as the user interacts with the display device along a path from the portion to an additional portion. When the gesture is completed, the user may be presented with options to present the content item to additional digital magazine server users, or the content item may be presented to other digital magazine server users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09165314&OS=09165314&RS=09165314
owner: Flipboard, Inc.
number: 09165314
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130911
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 700 307 filed Sep. 12 2012 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 752 951 filed Jan. 15 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 752 952 filed Jan. 15 2013 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to digital magazines and more specifically to interactions with content items included in a digital magazine.

Users often interact with content items provided by various sources such as social networking systems online publishers and blogs. While a source typically allows a user to recommend or suggest content items to other users of the source different sources have different mechanisms for presenting content items and for identifying content items to additional users. Thus to identify content items to other users of different sources a user must become familiar with various interfaces provided by each source. Additionally the interaction options provided by these many sources are typically generalized which often limits a user to performing certain limited actions when interacting with content items.

A digital magazine is a personalized customizable application for displaying content items to a user of a client device e.g. a mobile communication device tablet computer and any other suitable computing system . For example a digital magazine server selects content items for presentation to a user based on the user s interests and preferences. The content items are sent with instructions for display to the user on a client device.

To allow the user to more easily save a content item or present a content item with additional users of the digital magazine server a user interacts with a client device displaying the content item. In one embodiment the user interacts with a portion of a display device in which the content item is displayed and interacts with the display device along a path from the portion to an additional portion. For example the user contacts the portion of the display device and continues contacting the display device along the path from the portion to the additional portion. However the user may identify a content item to save or to present to other digital magazine server users through other suitable techniques such as positioning a stylus or other object e.g. a finger a stylus pen etc. within a threshold distance above the surface of a portion of the display device where the content item is presented and traversing a path above the surface of the display device positioning the stylus or other object within the threshold distance above the surface of the portion of the display device presenting the content item and traversing a path towards the surface of the display device maintaining eye contact with the portion of the display device presenting the content item and maintaining eye contact with the display device along a path from the portion to the additional portion and providing an audio command identifying the content item.

An instruction identifying the content item specified by the input is communicated to a digital magazine server which sends one or more options for sharing the content item to the client device. The options are presented by the client device allowing a user to select one or more of the options. For example the options allow the user to specify a communication channel for presenting the content item to additional digital magazine server users or to identify users of the digital magazine server or of another system to receive the content item. An instruction to share the content item based on a selected object is communicated to the digital magazine server which presents the content item to additional users based on the received instruction. Alternatively the digital magazine server presents the content item to one or more additional digital magazine server users when the instruction identifying the content item is received. For example information associated with the user specifies a communication channel and or one or more additional users and the digital magazine server presents the content item to the additional users using the specified communication channel.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A digital magazine server retrieves content from one or more sources and generates a personalized customizable digital magazine for a user based on the retrieved content. The generated digital magazine is retrieved by a digital magazine application executing on a computing device such as a mobile communication device tablet computer or any other suitable computing system and presented to the user. For example based on selections made by the user and or on behalf of the user the digital server application generates a digital magazine including one or more sections including content items retrieved from a number of sources and personalized for the user. The generated digital magazine allows the user to more easily consume content that interests and inspires the user by presenting content items in an easily navigable interface via a computing device.

The digital magazine may be organized into a number of sections that each include content having a common characteristic e.g. content obtained from a particular source . For example a section of the digital magazine includes articles from an online news source such as a website for a news organization another section includes articles from a third party curated collection of content associated with a particular topic e.g. a technology compilation and an additional section includes content obtained from one or more accounts associated with the user and maintained by one or more social networking systems. For purposes of illustration content included in a section is referred to herein as content items or articles which may include textual articles pictures videos products for sale user generated content e.g. content posted on a social networking system advertisements and any other types of content capable of display within the context of a digital magazine.

A source is a computing system capable of providing various types of content to a client device . Examples of content provided by a source include text images video or audio on web pages web feeds social networking information messages or other suitable data. Additional examples of content include user generated content such as blogs tweets shared images video or audio social networking posts and social networking status updates. Content provided by a source may be received from a publisher e.g. stories about news events product information entertainment or educational material and distributed by the source or a source may be a publisher of content it generates. For convenience content from a source regardless of its composition may be referred to herein as an article a content item or as content. A content item may include various types of content such as text images and video.

The sources communicate with the client device and the digital magazine server via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

The client device is one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment the client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. Alternatively the client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone or another suitable device. In one embodiment the client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the digital magazine server . For example an application executing on the client device communicates instructions or requests for content items to the digital magazine server to modify content presented to a user of the client device . As another example the client device executes a browser that receives pages from the digital magazine server and presents the pages to a user of the client device . In another embodiment the client device interacts with the digital magazine server through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID . While shows a single client device in various embodiments any number of client devices may communicate with the digital magazine server .

A display device included in the client device presents content items to a user of the client device . Examples of the display device include a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED display an active matrix liquid crystal display AMLCD or any other suitable device. Different client devices may have display devices with different characteristics. For example different client devices have display devices with different display areas different resolutions or differences in other characteristics.

One or more input devices included in the client device receive input from the user. Different input devices may be included in the client device . For example the client device includes a touch sensitive display for receiving input data commands or information from a user. Using a touch sensitive display allows the client device to combine the display device and an input device simplifying user interaction with presented content items. In other embodiments the client device may include a keyboard a trackpad a mouse or any other device capable of receiving input from a user. In another example the input device is configured to receive information from a user of the client device through a touchless interface. Examples of a touchless interface include sensors such as an image capture device to receive gestures from a client device user without the user physically contacting the display device or the client device . Additionally the client device may include multiple input devices in some embodiments. Inputs received via the input device may be processed by a digital magazine application associated with the digital magazine server and executing on the client device to allow a client device user to interact with content items presented by the digital magazine server .

The digital magazine server receives content items from one or more sources generates pages in a digital magazine by processing the received content and provides the pages to the client device . As further described below in conjunction with the digital magazine server generates one or more pages for presentation to a user based on content items obtained from one or more sources and information describing organization and presentation of content items. For example the digital magazine server determines a page layout specifying positioning of content items relative to each other based on information associated with a user and generates a page including the content items arranged according to the determined layout for presentation to the user via the client device . This allows the user to access content items via the client device in a format that enhances the user s interaction with and consumption of the content items. For example the digital magazine server provides a user with content items in a format similar to the format used by print magazines. By presenting content items in a format similar to a print magazine the digital magazine server allows a user to interact with content items from multiple sources via the client device with less inconvenience from horizontally or vertically scrolling to access various content items.

Each user of the digital magazine server is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the digital magazine server . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding social networking system user. Examples of information stored in a user profile include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as gender hobbies or preferences location or other suitable information. A user profile in the user profile store also includes data describing interactions by a corresponding user with content items presented by the digital magazine server . For example a user profile includes a content item identifier a description of an interaction with the content item corresponding to the content item identifier and a time when the interaction occurred.

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing individuals to provide and receive content items via the digital magazine server user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to provide or access content items via the digital magazine server . An entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other content items associated with the entity to users of the digital magazine server . For example users of the digital magazine server may receive a digital magazine or section including content items associated with an entity via the digital magazine server .

The template store includes page templates each describing a spatial arrangement layout of content items relative to each other on a page for presentation by a client device . A page template includes one or more slots each configured to present one or more content items. In some embodiments slots in a page template may be configured to present a particular type of content item or to present a content item having one or more specified characteristics. For example a slot in a page template is configured to present an image while another slot in the page template is configured to present text data. Each slot has a size e.g. small medium or large and an aspect ratio. One or more page templates may be associated with types of client devices allowing content items to be presented in different relative locations and with different sizes when the content items are viewed using different client devices . Additionally page templates may be associated with sources allowing a source to specify the format of pages presenting content items received from the source . For example an online retailer is associated with a page template to allow the online retailer to present content items via the digital magazine server with a specific organization. Examples of page templates are further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 187 840 filed on Jul. 21 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The content store stores objects that each represent various types of content. For example the content store stores content items received from one or more sources within a threshold time of a current time. Examples of content items stored by the content store include a page post a status update a photograph a video a link an article video data audio data a check in event at a location or any other type of content. A user may specify a section including content items having a common characteristic and the common characteristic is stored in the content store along with an association with the user profile or the user specifying the section.

The layout engine retrieves content items from one or more sources or from the content store and generates a page including the content items based on a page template from the template store . Based on the retrieved content items the layout engine may identify candidate page templates from the template store score the candidate page templates based on characteristics of the slots in different candidate page templates and based on characteristics of the content items. Based on the scores associated with candidate page templates the layout engine selects a page template and associates the retrieved content items with one or more slots to generate a page where the retrieved content items are presented relative to each other and sized based on their associated slots. When associating a content item with a slot the layout engine may associate the content item with a slot configured to present a specific type of content item or to present content items having one or more specified characteristics. An example of using a page template to present content items is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 187 840 filed on Jul. 21 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The connection generator monitors interactions between users and content items presented by the digital magazine server . Based on the interactions the connection generator determines connections between various content items connections between users and content items or connections between users of the digital magazine server . For example the connection generator identifies when users of the digital magazine server provide feedback about a content item access a content item share a content item with other users or perform other actions with content items. In some embodiments the connection generator retrieves data describing user interaction with content items from the user s user profile in the user profile store . Alternatively user interactions with content items are communicated to the connection generator when the interactions are received by the digital magazine server . The connection generator may account for temporal information associated with user interactions with content items. For example the connection generator identifies user interactions with a content item within a specified time interval or applies a decay factor to identified user interactions based on times associated with interactions. The connection generator generates a connection between a user and a content item if the user s interactions with the content item satisfy one or more criteria. In one embodiment the connection generator determines one or more weights specifying a strength of the connection between the user and the content item based on user interactions with the content item that satisfy one or more criteria. Generation of connections between a user and a content item is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 905 016 filed on May 29 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

If multiple content items are connected to a user the connection generator establishes implicit connections between each of the content items connected to the user. In one embodiment the connection generator maintains a user content graph identifying the implicit connections between content items connected to a user. In one embodiment weights associated with connections between a user and content items are used to determine weights associated with various implicit connections between content items. User content graphs for multiple users of the digital magazine server are combined to generate a global content graph describing connections between various content items provided by the digital magazine server based on user interactions with various content items. For example the global content graph is generated by combining user content graphs based on mutual connections between various content items in user content graphs.

In one embodiment the connection generator generates an adjacency matrix from the global content graph or from multiple user content graphs and stores the adjacency matrix in the connection store . The adjacency matrix describes connections between content items. For example the adjacency matrix includes identifiers of content items and weights representing the strength or closeness of connections between content items based on the global content graph. As an example the weights indicate a degree of similarity in subject matter or similarity of other characteristics associated with various content items. In other embodiments the connection store includes various adjacency matrices determined from various user content graphs the adjacency matrices may be analyzed to generate an overall adjacency matrix for content items provided by the digital magazine server . Graph analysis techniques may be applied to the adjacency matrix to rank content items to recommend content items to a user or to otherwise analyze relationships between content items. An example of the adjacency matrix is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 905 016 filed on May 29 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In addition to identifying connections between content items the connection generator may also determine a social proximity between users of the digital magazine server based on interactions between users and content items. The digital magazine server determines social proximity or social distance between users using a variety of techniques. For example the digital magazine server analyzes additional users connected to each of two users of the digital magazine server within a social networking system to determine the social proximity of the two users. In another example the digital magazine server determines social proximity between a first and a second user by analyzing the first user s interactions with content items posted by the second user whether the content item is posted using the digital magazine server or on another social networking system. Additional examples for determining social proximity between users of the digital magazine server are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 905 016 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In one embodiment the connection generator determines a connection confidence value between a user and an additional user of the digital magazine server based on the user s and the additional user s common interactions with particular content items. The connection confidence value may be a numerical score representing a measure of closeness between the user and the additional user. For example a larger connection confidence value indicates a greater similarity between the user and the additional user. In one embodiment if a user has at least a threshold connection confidence value with another user the digital magazine server stores a connection between the user and the additional user in the connection store .

Using data from the connection store the recommendation engine identifies content items from one or more sources for recommending to a digital magazine server user. Hence the recommendation engine identifies content items potentially relevant to a user. In one embodiment the recommendation engine retrieves data describing interactions between a user and content items from the user s user profile and data describing connections between content items and or connections between users from the connection store . In one embodiment the recommendation engine uses stored information describing content items e.g. topic sections subsections and interactions between users and various content items e.g. views shares saved links topics read or recent activities to identify content items that may be relevant to a digital magazine server user. For example content items having an implicit connection of at least a threshold weight to a content item with which the user interacted are recommended to the user. As another example a the recommendation engine presents a user with content items having one or more attributes in common with a content item with which an additional user having a threshold connection confidence score with the user interacted. Recommendations for additional content items may be presented to a user when the user views a content item using the digital magazine may be presented as a notification to the user by the digital magazine server or may be presented to the user through any suitable communication channel.

In one embodiment the recommendation engine applies various filters to content items received from one or more sources or from the content store to efficiently provide a user with recommended content items. For example the recommendation engine analyzes attributes of content items in view of characteristics of a user retrieved from the user s user profile. Examples of attributes of content items include a type e.g. image story link video audio etc. a source from which a content item was received time when a content item was retrieved and subject matter of a content item. Examples of characteristics of a user include biographic information about the user users connected to the user and interactions between the user and content items. In one embodiment the recommendation engine analyzes attributes of content items in view of a user s characteristics for a specified time period to generate a set of recommended content items. The set of recommended content items may be presented to the user or may be further analyzed based on user characteristics and on content item attributes to generate more refined set of recommended content items. A setting included in a user s user profile may specify a length of time that content items are analyzed before identifying recommended content items to the user allowing a user to balance refinement of recommended content items with time used to identify recommended content items.

The search module receives a search query from a user and retrieves content items from one or more sources based on the search query. For example content items having at least a portion of an attribute matching at least a portion search query are retrieved from one or more sources . The user may specify sources from which content items are received through settings maintained by the user s user profile or by identifying one or more sources in the search query. In one embodiment the search module generates a section of the digital magazine including the content items identified based on the search query as the identified content items have a common attribute of their association with the search query. Presenting identified content items identified from a search query allows a user to more easily identify additional content items at least partially matching the search query when additional content items are provided by sources .

To more efficiently identify content items based on search queries the search module may index content items groups or sections of content items and user profile information. In one embodiment the index includes information about various content items such as author source topic creation data time user interaction information document title or other information capable of uniquely identifying the content item. Search queries are compared to information maintained in the index to identify content items for presentation to a user. The search module may present identified content items based on a ranking. One or more factors associated with the content items may be used to generate the ranking. Examples of factors include global popularity of a content item among users of the digital magazine server connections between users interacting with a content item and the user providing the search query and information from a source . Additionally the search module may assign a weight to the index information associated with each content item selected based on similarity between the index information and a search query and rank the content items based on their weights. For example content items identified based on a search query are presented in a section of the digital magazine in an order based in part on the ranking of the content items.

To increase user interaction with the digital magazine the interface generator maintains instructions associating received input with actions performed by the digital magazine server or by a digital magazine application executing on a client device . For example instructions maintained by the interface generator associate types of inputs or specific inputs received via an input device of a client device with modifications to content presented by a digital magazine. As an example if the input device is a touch sensitive display the interface generator includes instructions associating different gestures with navigation through content items or presented via a digital magazine. Instructions from the interface generator are communicated to a digital magazine application or other application executing on a client device on which content from the digital magazine server is presented. Inputs received via an input device of the client device are processed based on the instructions when content items are presented via the digital magazine server is presented to simplify user interaction with content presented by the digital magazine server .

The web server Y links the digital magazine server via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more sources . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may retrieve content item from one or more sources . Additionally the web server communicates instructions for generating pages of content items from the layout engine and instructions for processing received input from the interface generator to a client device for presentation to a user. The web server also receives requests for content or other information from a client device and communicates the request or information to components of the digital magazine server to perform corresponding actions. Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or BlackberryOS.

For purposes of illustration describes various functionalities provided by the digital magazine server . However in other embodiments the above described functionality may be provided by a digital magazine application executing on a client device or may be provided by a combination of the digital magazine server and a digital magazine application executing on a client device . For example an application associated with the digital magazine server identifies an input received by the client device and communicates an instruction for sharing a content item determined by the input to the digital magazine server . In one embodiment the application associated with the digital magazine server identifies a content item based on an input received via the client device and communicates an instruction to share the content item with one or more additional users to the digital magazine server .

In the example of when a digital magazine server generates a page for presentation to a user the digital magazine server populates slots in a page template with content items. Information identifying the page template and associations between content items and slots in the page template is stored and used to generate the page. For example to present a page to a user the layout engine identifies the page template from the template store and retrieves content items from one or more sources or from the content store . The layout engine generates data or instructions associating content items with slots within the page template . Hence the generated page includes various content regions presenting one or more content items associated with a slot in a location specified by the slot.

A content region may present image data text data a combination of image and text data or any other information retrieved from a corresponding content item. For example in the content region A represents a table of contents identifying sections of a digital magazine and content associated with the various sections are presented in content regions B H. For example content region A includes text or other data indicating that the presented data is a table of contents such the text Cover Stories Featuring followed by one or more identifiers associated with various sections of the digital magazine. In one embodiment an identifier associated with a section describes a characteristic common to at least a threshold number of content items in the section. For example an identifier refers to the name of a user of social network from which content items included in the section are received. As another example an identifier associated with a section specifies a topic an author a publisher e.g. a newspaper a magazine or other characteristic associated with at least a threshold number of content items in the section. Additionally an identifier associated with a section may further specify content items selected by a user of the digital magazine server and organized as a section. Content items included in a section may be related topically and include text and or images related to the topic.

Sections may be further organized into subsections with content items associated with one or more subsections presented in content regions. Information describing sections or subsections such as a characteristic common to content items in a section or subsection may be stored in the content store and associated with a user profile to simplify generation of a section or subsection for the user. A page template associated with a subsection may be identified and slots in the page template associated with the subsection used to determine presentation of content items from the subsection relative to each other. Referring to the content region H includes a content item associated with a newspaper to indicate a section including content items retrieved from the newspaper. When a user interacts with the content region a page template associated with the section is retrieved as well as content items associated with the section. Based on the page template associated with the section and the content items the digital magazine server generates a page presenting the content items based on the layout described by the slots of the page template. For example in the section page includes content regions presenting content items associated with the section. The content regions may include content items associated with various subsections including content items having one or more common characteristics e.g. topics authors etc. . Hence a subsection may include one or more subsections allowing hierarchical organization and presentation of content items by a digital magazine.

In an embodiment where a touch sensitive display device is used the user may provide the input by contacting a portion of the display device and maintaining contact with the display device while traversing a path . The path comprises moving from the portion of the display device towards an additional portion of the display device in a direction of motion when an intermediate location between the portion and the additional portion is reached. For example one path is moving from the portion of the display device to the additional portion of the display device by moving upward towards and to the right of the additional portion and at the intermediate location between the portion and the additional portion moving left of the portion . Other paths include additional intermediate locations between the portion and additional portion and additional directions of motion.

When the input is completed an interface displaying one or more options to the user is presented. For example the options include an option to attach supplemental content to the content item to a message sent to another user an option to share the content item with one or more additional users an option to identify users to receive the content item or other suitable options. In one embodiment multiple options to share the content item are presented allowing the user to select from various communication channels e.g. e mail social networking system digital magazine server text message etc. to share the content item . In an e mail communication channel embodiment the user is further prompted with a comment interface or the comment option in the interface . Additionally the user may identify users of the digital magazine server users of another system such as a social networking system a digital magazine maintained by the digital magazine server or other suitable entities to receive the content item . Options for sharing a content item and interactions with the content item are further described below in conjunction with .

The interface may present pop up displays to assist the user in selecting recipients for the options. For example if the user physically contacts the option for saving the content item a pop up display appears adjacent to the interface in a row and displays potential recipients for the content item such as magazines as shown in . In another example magazines or user identifiers are displayed or arranged in a different manner in the pop up display. For example the pop up display is a scroll bar presented adjacent to the interface and displays the possible recipients in a column.

In one embodiment the displayed recipients are identified based on users magazines or other entities associated with the user. For example when saving the content item the recipients listed may be collections of content generated or maintained by the user. In other embodiments the displayed recipients are determined based on attributes of the content item attributes of the user or any combination thereof.

After selecting one or more options the user may manually complete interaction with the content item by accessing an input element such as a button icon or other graphical element. In other embodiments rather than present one or more options to the user the content item is shared with one or more additional users or entities when the input is completed. For example options for sharing the content item are retrieved from a user profile associated with the user or from settings stored by an application executing on the client device and associated with the digital magazine server . In another embodiment the user identifies a collection of content items to which a content item is saved when an input is received by an application executing on the client device and associated with the digital magazine server . Alternatively one or more options for sharing the content item are determined based on attributes of the content item attributes of the user attributes of the input or any combination thereof.

In an alternative embodiment the path determines whether options are presented or actions are performed. One path may cause options to be sent from the digital magazine server and other paths may cause different actions relating to the content item to be performed. For example a circular path saves the content item to the digital magazine server a triangular path corresponds to sharing the content item with one or more users of the digital magazine server and a diagonal path corresponds to commenting on the content item . The performed actions and paths can be retrieved from the user profile of the user or the settings of the application executing on the client device in one embodiment.

The digital magazine server sends one or more content items and instructions for displaying the one or more content items to a client device which receives the content items and instructions. For example the digital magazine server sends the one or more content items and instructions in response to a request for content items received from the client device or may send one or more content items and instructions for displaying the content items to the client device at various time intervals. In one embodiment the instructions for displaying one or more of the content items are retrieved from a digital magazine application executing on the client device while the content items are received from the digital magazine server which retrieves the content items from the content store or from one or more sources . Alternatively the instructions may include page templates retrieved from the template store of the digital magazine server that describe relative positioning of content items to each other when displayed. As further described above in conjunction with the page templates have one or more slots specifying locations in which content items are displayed in a page of a digital magazine.

Based on the instructions the client device displays one or more of the content items in various display regions of a display device included on the client device . For example content regions are displayed in various positions in the display device determined by slots in a page template. In one embodiment the content items are displayed in a page of a digital magazine presented via the display device .

The client device receives an input from the user interacting with a portion of the display device of the client device . For example a display region presenting a content item is displayed in the portion of the display device . In one embodiment the input is received when the user interacts with the portion of the display device and continues to interact with the display device along a path from the portion to an additional portion of the display device . For example if the display device is a touch sensitive display the input is received when the user contacts the portion of the display device and maintains physical contact with the display device from the portion to the additional portion of the display device . This interaction with the display device allows the user to easily interact with a presented content item by performing a gesture with the display device .

In other embodiments the input may be received through other suitable methods. For example the input is received when the user contacts the portion of the display device with a physical stylus and continues contacting the display device with the physical stylus while traversing the path to the additional portion of the display device . Other examples of inputs received include a user positioning a stylus or other object e.g. a finger a stylus pen etc. within a threshold distance above the surface of the portion of the display device and traversing a path above the surface of the display device a user positioning the stylus or other object within the threshold distance above the surface of the portion of the display device and traversing a path towards the surface of the display device a sensor identifying eye contact by the user with the portion of the display device and the user maintaining eye contact with the display device along a path from the portion to the additional portion receiving an audio command via an audio capture device moving the client device along a specified path or any other suitable type of input. In an embodiment where the input is an audio command the input is received when a phrase or other audio signal with a specific signature is received by a microphone or other audio capture device included on the client device .

In one embodiment the portion is an area of the display region in which a corner of the content item is displayed. In other embodiments the portion and or the additional portion display additional features of the content item. Examples of displayed features of the content item include one or more corners of the content item a border a title a section an image a video or a visual indication of a location such as a point an icon or a button. Alternatively the additional portion includes a visual indication of a specific region of the display device such as an icon an image a shape or any other suitable data. For example instead of the path shown by the dotted arrow in the path may be circular where the portion and the additional portion are the same. Additional examples of a path include different shapes or patterns such as a rectangle an ellipse a triangle an x a diagonal line and a curved line.

When the input is received the client device sends an instruction identifying the content item presented by the portion of the display device with which the user interacted to the digital magazine server . In one embodiment the instruction includes an identifier associated with the content item such as a uniform resource locator URL associated with the content item alternatively a content identifier associated with the content item by the digital magazine server or any other information identifying the content item is included in the instruction. In various embodiments additional information may be included in the instruction such as one or more attributes of the content item. Example attributes of the content item include one or more of a title an author a source a type a size an identifier and timestamp information.

When the digital magazine server receives the instruction identifying the content item from the client device the digital magazine server sends one or more options for sharing the content item with additional digital magazine server users to the client device . Various options may be sent allowing the user to select from various communication channels to share the content item. Examples of options include an option to attach supplemental content to the content item and send a message including the content item and the supplemental content to another digital magazine server user an option to present the content item with one or more additional digital magazine server users i.e. share the content item with one or more additional digital magazine server users an option to display the content item in a location accessible to other digital magazine server users an option to include the content item in a digital magazine provided by the digital magazine e.g. a digital magazine associated with the user a digital magazine associated with another user a digital magazine globally accessible by digital magazine server users etc an option to generate a new digital magazine including the content item and an option to identify users to receive the content item. However other suitable options may be presented in various embodiments.

In some embodiments the digital magazine server selects options for sending to the client device based on a type of instruction received from the client device or based on information describing the received input in the instruction received from the client device . For example based on characteristics of the received input the client device selects from different instructions to send or includes information describing the received input in the sent instruction. Example characteristics of the received input include rate force direction and duration. In one embodiment if the instruction indicates that the input was completed in greater than a threshold time interval one or more options for sharing the content item are selected by the digital magazine server and sent to the client device however if the instruction indicates that the input was completed in less than the threshold time interval or in the threshold time interval the instruction identifies the content item and the digital magazine server shares the content item with one or more additional users based on settings associated with the user. In another embodiment different types of inputs cause different instructions to be sent to the digital magazine server which may modify the options sent by the digital magazine server or the actions performed by the digital magazine server . For example if the received input traverses the path one direction e.g. clockwise an action is performed by the digital magazine server e.g. share the content item while if the received input traverses the path in a different direction e.g. counter clockwise a different action e.g. save the content item is performed by the digital magazine server . Alternatively the instruction sent to the digital magazine server is independent of characteristics of the received input.

In other embodiments the options sent to the client device are selected based on information associated with the user by the digital magazine server . For example information in the user s user profile or settings stored by an application executing on the client device and associated with the digital magazine server are used to select options for sending to the client device . In other embodiments the options are filtered by the digital magazine server or by an application executing on the client device and associated with the digital magazine server based on attributes of the identified content item attributes of the user or any combination thereof. Example attributes of the identified content item include a title an author a source a type a size an identifier and a topic. Examples of attributes of the user include preferences prior interactions with content item and additional users connected to the user.

The client device presents the one or more options for sharing the content item received to the user. For example one or more of the received options are presented via an interface presented on the display device such as the interface shown in . This allows the user to select from various communication channels e.g. e mail social networking system digital magazine server text message etc. to share the content item by selecting one or more of the presented options. If the user interacts with a presented option one or more additional options may be presented. For example if the user interacts with an option to attach supplemental content to the item the user may be presented with options for identifying supplemental content to attach such as other content items maintained by the digital magazine server content items maintained by systems other than the digital magazine server comments audio data text data or any other suitable content.

Additionally the presented options allow the user to identify additional users to receive the content item. For example the user may identify itself other users of the digital magazine server users of a system other than the digital magazine server e.g. a social networking system a digital magazine maintained by the digital magazine server or other suitable entities to receive the content item.

When the client device receives a selection of an option an instruction to share the content item based on the selected option is sent to the digital magazine server . For example the user accesses an input element associated with an option to select the option and an instruction identifying the selected option is sent to the digital magazine server . The input element may be a button an icon or other graphical element. Based on the instruction to share the content item the digital magazine server shares the content item by presenting it to one or more additional digital magazine server users or presenting in to users of a system coupled to the digital magazine server . The selected option identified by the instruction specifies a communication channel and or one or more users to be presented with the content item. In some embodiments the digital magazine server shares the content item when the instruction identifying the content item is received allowing the content item to be shared without the user selecting an option for sharing the content item.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

