---

title: Method of CO and/or COhydrogenation using doped mixed-metal oxides
abstract: A method of hydrogenation utilizing a reactant gas mixture comprising a carbon oxide and a hydrogen agent, and a hydrogenation catalyst comprising a mixed-metal oxide containing metal sites supported and/or incorporated into the lattice. The mixed-metal oxide comprises a perovskite, a pyrochlore, a fluorite, a brownmillerite, or mixtures thereof doped at the A-site or the B-site. The metal site may comprise a deposited metal, where the deposited metal is a transition metal, an alkali metal, an alkaline earth metal, or mixtures thereof. Contact between the carbon oxide, hydrogen agent, and hydrogenation catalyst under appropriate conditions of temperature, pressure and gas flow rate generate a hydrogenation reaction and produce a hydrogenated product made up of carbon from the carbon oxide and some portion of the hydrogen agent. The carbon oxide may be CO, CO, or mixtures thereof and the hydrogen agent may be H. In a particular embodiment, the hydrogenated product comprises an alcohol, an olefin, an aldehyde, a ketone, an ester, an oxo-product, or mixtures thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09150476&OS=09150476&RS=09150476
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09150476
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130802
---
This patent application claims priority from provisional patent application 61 679 152 filed Aug. 3 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

One or more embodiments relates to a method of hydrogenation using a hydrogenation catalyst comprising a mixed metal oxide containing metal sites supported on and or incorporated into the lattice. In an embodiment the metal site is a deposited metal and the mixed metal oxide supports the metal site. The metal site comprises a transition metal an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal or mixtures thereof and the mixed metal oxide comprises a perovskite a pyrochlore a fluorite a brownmillerite or mixtures thereof. The method of hydrogenation utilizes a reactant gas mixture comprising a carbon oxide such as CO or COand a hydrogen agent such as Hfor the generation of various hydrogenated products including alcohols olefins aldehydes ketones esters oxo products and others.

Hydrogenation catalysts which enhance reactions between hydrogen and other compounds are a topic of significant interest. In particular catalysts for CO COhydrogenations into higher oxygenates C i.e. ethanol etc. are of specific interest. These higher oxygenates are widely used as solvents intermediates fuel additives and neat fuels and producing these products selectively requires catalysts with specific properties. Typically major byproducts from CO COhydrogenations are single carbon compounds so a major challenge is the development of catalysts with higher selectivity towards the higher alcohols and oxygenates. There is particular emphasis on high selectivity catalysts for CO COhydrogenations acting in environments of CO CO and H such as syngas which require relatively high stability in the presence of a reducing environment. Generally a variety of catalysts particularly the Group 6 through 11 metals have been employed in CO COhydrogenations but in many cases these catalysts generate broad complex mixtures of hydrocarbons oxygenated hydrocarbons and carbon dioxide. Thus there is a need for CO COhydrogenation catalysts that selectively generate higher alcohols oxygenated hydrocarbons products.

Certain metals such as Rh have been extensively studied because of their generally high hydrogenation activities. For example these catalysts have been shown to be the most active and selective for higher alcohol synthesis compared to alternatives based on modified copper cobalt molybdenum or promoted Fischer Tropsch catalysts. The activity and selectivity of the active metal catalysts can be increased by various factors such as the presence of promoters the choice of support the synthesis method the use of specific precursors and other factors. Generally optimum higher alcohols oxygenated hydrocarbons formation requires a balance among the rates of CO dissociation hydrogenation and CO insertion. For example promoters such as rare earth metals alkali metals and other transition metals play an important role in these elementary steps. Typically the promoters activate the oxygen atom of an absorbed CO molecule and weaken the C O bond leading to CO dissociation followed by a hydrogenation step to form CHspecies. The mechanism for C C bond formation leading to higher alcohols oxygenated hydrocarbons also requires the atomic proximity of an activated associatively adsorbed CO that can react with the CHspecies. Subsequent hydrogenation of this initial Cintermediate leads to higher alcohols or oxygenated hydrocarbons synthesis. The two sites where one forms CHand the other an activated CO are catalytically distinct but need to be atomically adjacent. As a result the hydrogenation of CO to produce Coxygenates such as ethanol is thought to require the atomic proximity of catalytic sites that activate CO in two ways i dissociative adsorption of CO to produce surface carbon that is hydrogenated to form a surface CHspecies and ii associative adsorption of CO which is activated by the catalyst and couples with the CHspecies to form the critical C C bond.

Catalytic metals have also been substituted into certain crystalline oxides such as perovskites and pyrochlores in an effort to promote selectivity in CO COhydrogenations. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 312 955 to Bartley and see U.S. Pat. No. 4 126 580 to Lauder and see U.S. Pat. No. 4 863 971 to Broussard et al. and see Tien Thao et al. Effect of alkali additives over nanocrystalline Co Cu based perovskites as catalysts for higher alcohol synthesis 245 2007 and see Tien Thao et al. Characterization and reactivity of nanoscale La Co Cu Operovskite catalyst precursors for CO hydrogenation 181 2008 and see Bourzutschky et al. Conversion of synthesis gas over LaMnCuOperovskite and related copper catalysts 124 1990 . Additionally CO COhydrogenation catalysts have involved catalytic metals such as Co Cu and Rh supported by various structures such as LaZrO LaFeO LaO TiO SiO and AlO. See Kieffer et al. Hydrogenation of CO and COtoward methanol alcohols and hydrocarbons on promoted copper rare earth oxides catalysts 36 1997 and see Chu et al. Conversion of syngas to C1 C6 alcohol mixtures on promoted CuLaZrOcatalysts 121 1995 and see Fujiwara et al. Hydrogenation of carbon dioxide over copper pyrochlore zeolite composite catalysts 29 1996 and see Fang et al. LaFeO3 supported nano Co Cu catalysts for higher alcohol synthesis from syngas 397 2011 and see Chuang et al. Mechanism of C2 oxygenate synthesis on Rh catalysts 32 2005 . The efforts are generally aimed toward adjustment of the CO dissociation and insertion abilities of the Co Cu or Rh through varying promoter and support compositions. Variations in selectivities are typically attributed to the specific properties of the support the promoter the morphology of the metal and the impact of the support on the reducibility of the metal.

Recently the presence of an atomically adjacent ionic and metallic species M M has been reported to enhance the coupling between undissociated CO and CHand the selective formation of ethanol via ketene HC C O or acetyl HC C O intermediates. The higher oxygenated hydrocarbon selectivity is postulated to occur via the formation of a tilted CO species in which both the carbon and oxygen atoms are bound to the surface. One way in which these types of sites needed to produce higher alcohols oxygenated hydrocarbons can be prepared is to use particular crystalline oxides such as a perovskite pyrochlore fluorite or brownmillerite with particular catalytic metal sites where catalytic metals are also doped into the perovskite pyrochlore fluorite or brownmillerite and will have the M Mcoordination. Additionally such perovskite pyrochlore fluorite and brownmillerite materials allow various metals to be isomorphically substituted into the oxide structures providing for example basic sites that act to activate adsorbed CO. Further oxygen conductivity of these materials may enhance the ionic and metallic M M species coordination. This property has also been shown to reduce undesired carbon formation. The use of such crystal oxides with the doped catalytic metal sites also promote a high degree of thermal stability in environments which may be highly reducing. Further atomically adjacent ionic and metallic species M M can be achieved by depositing the catalytically active metal s M on the surface of the doped mixed metal oxides.

Provided here is a method of hydrogenation utilizing a reactant gas mixture comprising a carbon oxide and a hydrogen agent and a hydrogenation catalyst comprising a mixed metal oxide with a metal site supported by and or incorporated into the lattice. In an embodiment the metal site is a deposited metal and the mixed metal oxide supports the metal site. The metal site comprises a transition metal an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal or mixtures thereof and the conducting oxide comprises a perovskite a pyrochlore a fluorite a brownmillerite or mixtures thereof typically doped at an A site or B site of the conducting oxide crystal structure. Contact between the carbon oxide hydrogen agent and hydrogenation catalyst under appropriate conditions of temperature pressure and gas flow rate generate a hydrogenation reaction and produce a hydrogenated product made up of carbon from the carbon oxide and some portion of the hydrogen agent. The carbon oxide may be CO CO or mixtures thereof and the hydrogen agent may be H. In a particular embodiment the hydrogenated product comprises an alcohol an olefin an aldehyde a ketone an ester an oxo product or mixtures thereof.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The method generally entails contacting a reactant gas mixture comprising a carbon oxide and a hydrogen agent with a hydrogenation catalyst where the hydrogenation catalyst comprises a mixed metal oxide containing metal sites that can be supported and or incorporated into the lattice. In certain embodiments the metal sites comprise a deposited metal supported by the mixed metal oxide and the deposited metal is a transition metal an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal or mixtures thereof. In certain embodiments the carbon oxide is CO CO or mixtures thereof and the hydrogen agent is H. The mixed metal oxide comprises a perovskite a pyrochlore a fluorite or a brownmillerite typically doped at an A site or B site of the mixed metal oxide crystal structure. The A site and B site dopants are typically present at lattice points of the crystal structure of the mixed metal oxide and coordinated with oxygen atoms in the crystal structure of the mixed metal oxide. In some embodiments the A site or B site comprises a noble metal. In additional embodiments the metal site comprises a deposited metal deposited on the mixed metal oxide and comprises a noble metal.

Contact between the carbon oxide hydrogen agent and hydrogenation catalyst generates a hydrogenation reaction and produces a hydrogenated product made up of carbon from the carbon oxide and some portion of the hydrogen agent. In a particular embodiment the hydrogenated product comprises an alcohol an olefin an aldehyde a ketone an ester an oxo product or mixtures thereof.

The various mixed metal oxides described interact with the metal sites to form products from reactant gas mixtures such as syngas with a high degree of selectivity. A feature of the mixed metal oxides utilized here is the ability to isomorphically substitute into the structure various catalytically active elements that can interact at the surface with clusters of metal atoms. Small clusters of metallic sites in proximity to the mixed metal oxide bound atoms promote the formation of bimolecular M M structures providing significant advantage over other structures. Additionally the ability to provide multiple dopants into the mixed metal oxides described allow advantageous use of the bifunctional base hydrogenation catalysts generally used for CO COhydrogenations. The basic sites may act to catalyze the condensation reaction by activating adsorbed CO e.g. by enhancing the formation of the formate intermediate which leads to alcohol formation.

The materials can be processed via a number of synthesis methods including but not limited to solid state diffusion polymeric precursor method e.g. Pechini Method combustion synthesis co precipitation hydrothermal solgel citric acid method chemical vapor deposition atomic layer deposition and other means known in the art for synthesis of metal sites with mixed metal oxides as described herein.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventors for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a method of conducting a hydrogenation process with a carbon oxide a hydrogen agent and a hydrogenation catalyst comprising a mixed metal oxide and metal sites as described herein to produce a hydrogenated product comprising carbon from the carbon oxide and some portion of the hydrogen agent.

The method generally entails contacting a reactant gas mixture comprising a carbon oxide and a hydrogen agent with a hydrogenation catalyst where the hydrogenation catalyst comprises a mixed metal oxide containing metal sites supported by and or incorporated into the lattice. The mixed metal oxide comprises a perovskite a pyrochlore a fluorite a brownmillerite or mixtures thereof typically doped at an A site or B site of the mixed metal oxide crystal structure. In certain embodiments the metal sites comprise a deposited metal supported by the mixed metal oxide and the deposited metal is a transition metal an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal or mixtures thereof. Contact between the carbon oxide hydrogen agent and hydrogenation catalyst under appropriate conditions of temperature pressure and gas flow rate generate a hydrogenation reaction and produce a hydrogenated product made up of carbon from the carbon oxide and some portion of the hydrogen agent. The carbon oxide may be CO CO or mixtures thereof. In certain embodiments the hydrogen agent is H. In a particular embodiment the hydrogenated product comprises an alcohol an olefin an aldehyde a ketone an ester an oxo product or mixtures thereof.

In general embodiments the mixed metal oxide is doped with an A site dopant a B site dopant or a combination of A site and B site dopants. The A site and B site dopants are present at lattice points of the crystal structure of the mixed metal oxide and coordinated with oxygen atoms in the crystal structure of the mixed metal oxide. In another embodiment the A site or B site comprises a noble metal. In a further embodiment the metal sites comprise a deposited metal deposited on the mixed metal oxide. In another embodiment the metal site comprises a noble metal and in a further embodiment the deposited metal comprises a noble metal.

The structure of the various mixed metal oxides described interacts with the metal sites to form products from reactant gas mixtures such as syngas with a high degree of selectivity. Generally and without being bound by theory the effectiveness of catalysts based on metals such as Rh for the formation of products such as C and higher oxygenates are greatly improved through interaction with the mixed metal oxide and atomically adjacent promoters. For example comparison of Rh supported on a lanthanum zirconate pyrochlore to Rh doped lanthanum zirconate shows that there is a fundamental difference in the selectivity to C oxygenates leading to higher ethanol and lower methanol selectivity over the Rh simply supported by a Rh doped lanthanum zirconate pyrochlore. The doped pyrochlore appears to interact with supported Rh atoms to produce significantly more of the unique types of sites needed for the formation of Coxygenates. See e.g. Abdelsayed et al. Synthesis characterization and catalytic activity of Rh based lanthanum zirconate pyrochlores for higher alcohol synthesis 207 2013 .

A feature of the mixed metal oxides utilized here is the ability to isomorphically substitute into the structure various elements that can interact at the surface with clusters of metal atoms. The properties of the mixed metal oxide can be used to tailor the degree and type of interaction with an active metal comprising the metal site to catalyze the conversion of syngas to specific end products. Small clusters of metallic sites in proximity to the mixed metal oxide bound catalytic metal atoms promote the formation of bimolecular M Mstructures providing significant advantage over other supported metal structures. Additionally the ability to provide multiple dopants into the mixed metal oxides described allow advantageous use of the bifunctional base hydrogenation catalysts generally used for CO COhydrogenations. The basic sites may act to catalyze the condensation reaction by activating adsorbed CO e.g. by enhancing the formation of the formate intermediate which leads to alcohol formation. The perovskite pyrochlore fluorite and brownmillerite materials described here have the ability to incorporate both functionalities by substituting a base at the A site and hydrogenation catalyst at the B site

These catalysts comprising a metal site with a typically doped perovskite pyrochlore fluorite brownmillerite or mixtures thereof can be utilized in a variety of forms including but not limited to powders pellets foam catalysts monolithic catalysts wall deposited tubular or planar deposited fiber or any other geometric shape catalyst system. The perovskite pyrochlore fluorite and brownmillerite materials described allow substituted materials to modify the perovskite pyrochlore fluorite and brownmillerite materials and interact with the metal sites in a variety of specific different manners through the availability of a wide range of catalytically active metals which can be supported on or substituted into the perovskite pyrochlore fluorite and brownmillerite materials.

The materials can be processed via a number of synthesis methods including but not limited to solid state diffusion polymeric precursor method e.g. Pechini Method combustion synthesis co precipitation hydrothermal solgel citric acid method chemical vapor deposition atomic layer deposition and other means known in the art for synthesis of mixed metal oxides containing deposited and or substituted metal sites as described herein.

Here carbon oxide means CO CO or mixtures thereof. Hydrogen agent means a material comprising hydrogen which donates hydrogen when the carbon oxide and the hydrogen agent contact the hydrogenation catalyst under the temperature pressure and gas flow rate conditions sufficient to produce a hydrogenated product made up of some portion of the carbon oxide and some portion of the hydrogen agent. The hydrogen agent may be Hor may be a material commonly considered a hydrogen transfer agent in hydrogenation processes such as hydrazine dihydronaphthalene dihydroanthracene isopropanol formic acid and others. See e.g. Brieger et al. Catalytic Transfer Hydrogenation 74 5 1974 among others. Additionally while the carbon oxide and the hydrogen agent comprise the reactant gas mixture the reactant gas mixture may further comprise of other constituents. For example the reactant gas mixture may further comprise alcohols olefins aldehydes ketones esters oxo products and other compounds.

 Hydrogenated product means a material comprising carbon and hydrogen where at least some portion of the carbon is derived from the carbon oxide and where at least some portion of the hydrogen is derived from the hydrogen agent. A hydrogenation reaction means a reaction in the presence of the hydrogenation catalyst where carbon derived from the carbon oxide and hydrogen derived from the hydrogen agent serve as reactants in a reaction producing the hydrogenated product.

 Metal site means a metal element deposited onto and supported by the mixed metal oxide or an atomically substituted metal element. The metal site may be an A site or B site dopants occupying a lattice point of the perovskite pyrochlore fluorite or brownmillerite crystal structure of the mixed metal oxide or the metal site may be a deposited metal which does not occupy a lattice point of the perovskite pyrochlore fluorite or brownmillerite crystal structure of the mixed metal oxide. Metal site as used here may refer to a single element or may refer to chemical entities such as mixtures and alloys comprising multiple elements or may refer to a group of elements comprising the hydrogenation catalyst where the elements in the group comprise an A site dopant a B site dopant a deposited metal or some combination therein.

 Deposited metal means a deposit comprising a metal and affixed to the conducting oxide where the metal comprises a transition metal an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal or mixtures thereof. As a deposited site and unlike the A site of B site dopants when present the metal site does not occupy a lattice point of the perovskite pyrochlore fluorite or brownmillerite crystal structure of the conducting oxide.

 Transition metal means the chemical elements with atomic numbers 21 to 30 39 to 48 71 to 80 and 103 to 109.

 Noble metal is a subset of transition metal as used herein and means the chemical elements Ru Rh Pd Ag Os Ir Pt and Au.

The terms alcohol olefin aldehyde ketone ester and oxo product describe organic molecules and are known in the art. See e.g. IUPAC 1993 1993 Blackwell Scientific publications and see Corrections to A Guide to IUPAC Nomenclature of Organic Compounds 71 1999 . Additionally within this disclosure chemical symbols and atomic numbers signify elements designated by like chemical symbols and atomic numbers according to The 2012 IUPAC International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry Periodic Table of The Elements.

Within this method the reactant gas mixture and the hydrogenation catalyst may be contacted and maintained at conditions of temperature pressure and gas flow rate sufficient to generate a hydrogenation reaction and produce the hydrogenated product using any means known in the art. For example the hydrogenation catalyst may be contained within a reactor volume maintained at a specific temperature and pressure and the reactant gas mixture may be introduced into the reactor volume at a rate sufficient to establish a specific gas flow rate over the hydrogenation catalyst and the hydrogenated product may be withdrawn from the reactor volume. In an embodiment the hydrogenation process occurring within the reactor volume is an exothermic process and heat is withdrawn from the reactor volume to maintain the specific temperature and pressure. The sufficiency of the temperature pressure and gas flow rate conditions may entail any combination of temperature pressure and gas flow rate provided that contacting the reactant gas mixture and the hydrogenation catalyst generates the hydrogenation reaction and produces the hydrogenated product.

In an embodiment the mixed metal oxide includes a doped perovskite having a perovskite composition AA BB O where A is one or more of a lanthanide series metal A if present is a Group 1 metal a Group 2 metal a Group 3 metal or mixtures thereof B is one or more of a transition metal B if present is one or more of a noble metal and O is the element oxygen. In this embodiment A is not equivalent to A and B is not equivalent to B with 0 x 1 0 y 1 and x y 0 such that the A site the B site or both are doped and z is a number that renders the composition charge neutral. In an embodiment A if present is an A site dopant at a lattice point of the perovskite crystal structure and B if present is a B site dopant at another lattice point of the perovskite crystal structure and A and B when present are coordinated with oxygen atoms in the perovskite crystal structure. In another embodiment the hydrogenation catalyst comprises the doped perovskite having the perovskite composition AA BB O and a deposited metal on the doped perovskite where the deposited metal comprises a transition metal an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal or mixtures thereof.

Here lanthanide series metal means the chemical elements with atomic numbers 57 through 71 consisting of La Ce Pr Nd Pm Sm Eu Gd Tb Dy Ho Er Tm Yb Lu. Further a Group N metal where N is a number from 1 to 18 refers to an element within the collection of elements that make up a Group designated with the number N as described by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry IUPAC . Additionally when a second element is not equivalent to a first element this means the second element has an atomic number on the IUPAC periodic table which is not equal to the first element. Similarly when a second element is equivalent to a first element this means the second element has an atomic number on the IUPAC periodic table which is equal to the first element.

Generally in a perovskite composition AA BB Ohaving a perovskite crystal structure A and B are two cations and O is an oxygen anion bonded to A and B where A is larger than B. The ideal cubic symmetry structure has the B cation in 6 fold coordination surrounded by an octahedron of O anions and the A cation in 12 fold cuboctahedral coordination. In the idealized cubic unit cell of such a perovskite A atoms sit at cube corner positions 0 0 0 B atoms sit at body center positions and oxygen atoms sit at face centered positions 0 . The necessary ionic states ionic radii and oxygen atom coordination generally necessary to form a perovskite crystal structure are known in the art. See e.g. L. G. Tejuca 1993 among others.

In a particular embodiment where the mixed metal oxide includes the perovskite composition AA BB O A is one of La Ca Gd Y or mixtures thereof and B is one of Ti V Cr Mn Cu Y Co Fe Mo Ga Ni or mixtures thereof. In this embodiment A if present is one of Ca Sr Ba or mixtures thereof and B if present is Rh Ru or mixtures thereof. In a further embodiment both x and y are greater than zero such that the doped perovskite has both an A site dopant and a B site dopant. In a further embodiment the A site or B site dopant comprises a metal equivalent to a metal comprising a deposited metal on the mixed metal oxide. In a further embodiment y 0 and B is a first noble metal and the deposited metal supported by the doped perovskite comprises a second noble metal. In a still further embodiment the second noble metal is equivalent to the first noble metal. Additionally when the hydrogenation catalyst comprises the doped perovskite the hydrogenation catalyst may additional comprise other crystal phases including simple oxides weberites and others. Further the doped perovskite comprising the hydrogenation catalyst may be either self supported or structurally supported on a substrate such as aluminas silicas other oxides and other substrates known in the art and combinations thereof.

In an additional embodiment the mixed metal oxide includes a doped pyrochlore having the pyrochlore composition AA BB O where A is one or more of a lanthanide series metal A if present is one or more of a Group 1 metal a Group 2 metal or mixtures thereof B is one or more of a transition metal B if present is one or more of a noble metal and O is the element oxygen. In this embodiment A is not equivalent to A B is not equivalent to B and 0 x 1 0 y 1 and x y 0 such that the A site the B site or both are doped and z is a number that renders the composition charge neutral. In another embodiment A if present is an A site dopant at a lattice point of the pyrochlore crystal structure and B if present is a B site dopant at another lattice point of the pyrochlore crystal structure and A and B when present are coordinated with oxygen atoms in the pyrochlore crystal structure. In another embodiment the hydrogenation catalyst comprises the doped pyrochlore having the pyrochlore composition AA BB Oand a deposited metal on the doped pyrochlore where the deposited metal comprises a transition metal an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal or mixtures thereof.

Generally in a pyrochlore composition AA BB Ohaving a pyrochlore crystal structure the pyrochlore is composed of trivalent cations and tetravalent cations in a cubic cell structure. The A site is usually a large cation typically rare earth elements and is coordinated with eight oxygen atoms. The B site cation has a smaller radius usually transition metal and is coordinated with six oxygen atoms. The necessary ionic states ionic radii and oxygen atom coordination generally necessary to form a pyrochlore crystal structure are known in the art. See e.g. Subramanian et al Oxide Pyrochlores A Review 15 1983 among others.

In a particular embodiment where the mixed metal oxide includes the pyrochlore composition AA BB O A is one of La Ce Gd or mixtures thereof and B is one of Ti V Cr Mn Cu Y Co Fe Mo Ni or mixtures thereof. In this embodiment A if present is one of Ca Sr Ba or mixtures thereof and B if present is Rh Ru or mixtures thereof. In another embodiment both x and y are greater than zero such that the doped pyrochlore has both an A site dopant and a B site dopant. In a further embodiment the A site or B site dopant comprises a metal equivalent to a metal comprising a deposited metal supported by the mixed metal oxide. In a further embodiment y 0 and B is a first noble metal and the deposited metal supported by the doped pyrochlore comprises a second noble metal. In a still further embodiment the second noble metal is equivalent to the first noble metal. Additionally when the hydrogenation catalyst comprises the doped pyrochlore the hydrogenation catalyst may additionally comprise other crystal phases including simple oxides weberites and others. Further the doped pyrochlore comprising the hydrogenation catalyst may be either self supported or structurally supported on a substrate such as aluminas silicas other oxides and other substrates known in the art and combinations thereof.

In a further embodiment the mixed metal includes a doped fluorite having a fluorite composition AA O where A is one or more of a lanthanide series metal and A is one or more of a transition metal. In this embodiment A is not equivalent to A x 0 such that the A site is doped and z is a number that renders the composition charge neutral. In an embodiment A is an A site dopant at a lattice point of the fluorite crystal structure and A is coordinated with oxygen atoms in the fluorite crystal structure. In another embodiment the hydrogenation catalyst comprises the doped fluorite having a fluorite composition AA Oand a deposited metal on the doped fluorite where the deposited metal comprises a transition metal an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal or mixtures thereof.

Generally in a fluorite composition AA Ohaving a fluorite crystal structure the A site is a cation coordinated with oxygen anions. The cations generally have an expanded face centered cubic arrangement with the anions occupying tetrahedral holes. The cations have a coordination number of 8 and the anions have a coordination number of 4. The necessary ionic states ionic radii and oxygen atom coordination generally necessary to form a fluorite crystal structure are known in the art. See e.g. Diness et al. Massively Defective Crystalline Solutions in Fluorite structure Oxides the Systems ThO LnO Ln La Gd Yb 4 1969 and see Kim et al. Lattice Parameters Ionic Conductivities and Solubility limits in Fluorite Structure MOOxide M Hf Zr Ce Th U Solid Solutions 72 1989 among others.

In a particular embodiment where the mixed metal oxide includes the fluorite composition AA O A is one of La Ce Pr Sm Gd Er Yb or mixtures thereof and A is one of Sc Y Zr Ta Bi Rh Ru Ni or mixtures thereof. In a further embodiment the A site dopant comprises a metal equivalent to a metal comprising a deposited metal supported by the mixed metal oxide. In a further embodiment A is a first noble metal and the deposited metal supported by the doped fluorite comprises a second noble metal. In a still further embodiment the second noble metal is equivalent to the first noble metal. Additionally when the hydrogenation catalyst comprises the doped fluorite the hydrogenation catalyst may additional comprise other crystal phases including simple oxides weberites and others. Further the doped fluorite comprising the hydrogenation catalyst may be either self supported or structurally supported on a substrate such as aluminas silicas other oxides and other substrates known in the art and combinations thereof.

In a further embodiment the mixed metal oxide includes a doped brownmillerite having the brownmillerite composition AA BB Owhere A is one or more of an alkaline earth metal A if present is one or more of a lanthanide series metal Group 3 metal or mixtures thereof B is one or more of a transition metal a Group 13 metal or mixtures thereof B if present is one or more of a lanthanide series metal a noble metal a Group 3 metal or mixtures thereof and O is the element oxygen. In this embodiment A is not equivalent to A B is not equivalent to B and 0 x 1 0 y 1 and x y 0 such that the A site the B site or both are doped and z is a number that renders the composition charge neutral. In an embodiment A if present is an A site dopant at a lattice point of the brownmillerite crystal structure and B if present is a B site dopant at another lattice point of the brownmillerite crystal structure and A and B when present are coordinated with oxygen atoms in the brownmillerite crystal structure. In another embodiment the hydrogenation catalyst comprises the doped brownmillerite having the brownmillerite composition AA BB Oand a deposited metal on the doped brownmillerite where the deposited metal comprises a transition metal an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal or mixtures thereof.

Generally in a brownmillerite composition AA BB Ohaving a brownmillerite crystal structure the A site and B site cations are statistically distributed and coordinated with oxygen anions in both octahedral and tetrahedral sites. Brownmillerites are closely related to perovskites and generally have layers of corner sharing BOoctahedra are separated by chains of corner sharing BOtetrahedra. The necessary ionic states ionic radii and oxygen atom coordination generally necessary to form a brownmillerite crystal structure are known in the art. See e.g. Ramezanipour et al. Intralayer Cation Ordering in a Brownmillerite Superstructure Synthesis Crystal and Magnetic Structures of CaFeCoO22 2010 among others.

In a particular embodiment where the mixed metal oxide includes the brownmillerite composition AA BB O A is one of Ca Sr Ba or mixtures thereof and B is one of Al Ga In Ti V Cr Mn Cu Co Ni or mixtures thereof. In this embodiment A if present is one of La Ce Gd Y or mixtures thereof and B if present is one of Rh Ru Y or mixtures thereof. In another embodiment both x and y are greater than zero such that the doped brownmillerite has both an A site dopant and a B site dopant. In a further embodiment the A site or B site dopant comprises a metal equivalent to a metal comprising a deposited metal supported by the mixed metal oxide. In a further embodiment y 0 and B is a first noble metal and the deposited metal supported by the doped brownmillerite comprises a second noble metal. In a still further embodiment the second noble metal is equivalent to the first noble metal. Additionally when the hydrogenation catalyst comprises the doped brownmillerite the hydrogenation catalyst may additional comprise other crystal phases including simple oxides weberites and others. Further the doped brownmillerite comprising the hydrogenation catalyst may be either self supported or structurally supported on a substrate such as aluminas silicas other oxides and other substrates known in the art and combinations thereof.

In a particular embodiment the carbon oxide is CO CO or mixtures thereof the hydrogen agent is H and the hydrogenated product is an alcohol an olefin an aldehyde a ketone an ester an oxo product or mixtures thereof. In another embodiment where the carbon oxide is CO CO or mixtures thereof and the hydrogen agent is H the reactant gas mixture has Hto carbon oxide ratio from 1 to 10 and the reactant gas mixture and the hydrogenation catalyst are contacted at a temperature from 50 C. to 500 C. a pressure from 1 atmosphere to 400 atmospheres and a gas flow rate from 10 scc gcat h to 100 000 scc gcat h and the hydrogenated product comprises an alcohol an olefin or mixtures thereof. In another embodiment where the carbon oxide is CO CO or mixtures thereof and the hydrogen agent is H the reactant gas mixture has Hto carbon oxide ratio from 1 to 10 and the reactant gas mixture and the hydrogenation catalyst are contacted at a temperature from 30 C. to 400 C. a pressure from 1 atmosphere to 400 atmospheres and a gas flow rate from 0.1 scc gcat h to 100 scc gcat h and the hydrogenated product comprises an aldehyde a ketone an ester an oxo product or mixtures thereof.

A particular use of the hydrogenation catalyst is illustrated at . At hydrogenation catalyst resides in a packed bed within a hydrogenation reactor . Hydrogenation catalyst comprises a mixed metal oxide where the mixed metal oxide is a doped perovskite a doped pyrochlore a doped fluorite or a doped brownmillerite or mixtures thereof as described herein. In an embodiment hydrogenation catalyst comprises the mixed metal oxide supporting a deposited metal where the deposited metal is a transition metal an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal or mixtures thereof. A reactant gas mixture Gi enters hydrogenation reactor through inlet and contacts hydrogenation catalyst within hydrogenation reactor . Reactant gas mixture Gi comprises a carbon oxide and a hydrogen agent. Hydrogenation reactor maintains reactant gas mixture Gi and hydrogenation catalyst at conditions of temperature pressure and gas flow rate to generate a hydrogenation reaction and produce the gaseous mixture G. Gaseous mixture Gcomprises a hydrogenated product where the hydrogenated product comprises carbon from the carbon oxide and at least some portion of the hydrogen agent.

In another embodiment the hydrogenated product comprising gaseous mixture Gis an alcohol an olefin an aldehyde a ketone an ester an oxo product or mixtures thereof. In a further embodiment the carbon oxide is CO CO or mixtures thereof and where the hydrogen agent is H. In an additional embodiment the hydrogenated product comprising gaseous mixture Gis the alcohol the olefin or mixtures thereof and the temperature during the contacting is from 50 C. to 500 C. the pressure during the contacting is from 1 atmosphere to 400 atmospheres and reactant gas mixture Gi has Hto carbon oxide ratio from 1 to 10 and reactant gas mixture Gi contacts hydrogenation catalyst at a gas flow rate sufficient to generate a Weight Hourly Space Velocity WHSV from 10 scc gcat h standard cubic centimeters grams catalyst hour to 100 000 scc gcat h. In another embodiment the hydrogenated product comprising gaseous mixture Gis the aldehyde the ketone the ester the oxo product or mixtures thereof and the temperature during the contacting is from 30 C. to 400 C. the pressure during the contacting is from 1 atmosphere to 400 atmospheres and reactant gas mixture Gi has Hto carbon oxide ratio from 1 to 10 and reactant gas mixture Gi contacts hydrogenation catalyst at a gas flow rate sufficient to generate a WHSV from 0.1 scc gcat h to 100 scc gcat h.

Hydrogenation catalysts may be prepared using the Pechini Method. See U.S. Pat. No. 3 330 697 issued to Pechini issued Jul. 11 1967. Sources of the metal cations A A B or B include compounds of those cations and mixtures thereof. An exemplary preparation method follows.

Metal nitrate precursors and citric acid are dissolved separately into deionized water. The citric acid metal molar ratio may be from 1.0 1.5 preferably about 1.2. The aqueous metal salts are then combined into one beaker and stirred. The aqueous citric acid is then added to the combined metal salt solution. This solution is heated to 60 80 C. preferably about 70 C. with continuous stirring. Ethylene glycol EG is then added to the heated solution. The ethylene glycol citric acid molar ratio may be from 1.0 4.0 preferably about 1.0. The solution is stirred continuously at the desired temperature for several hours to evaporate the majority of the water and to accelerate polymerization between metal chelated citric acid and ethylene glycol. A clear viscous gel is obtained which is further heated at 130 C. in a heating mantle until an amorphous polyester type resin is obtained. The solid material is collected and calcined at 700 1200 C. preferably about 1000 C. for 4 12 hours preferably about 8 hours to breakdown the organic polymer and burns the carbon off leading to a highly crystalline mixed metal oxide.

Microwave assisted chemical reduction method is used to deposit 2 wt Rh on the surface of either pure or Rh substituted lanthanum zirconate LZ pyrochlore catalysts prepared by modified Pechini method mentioned under pyrochlore synthesis . In a typical procedure rhodium nitrate is dissolved in a 100 ml of a HO EtOH 1 2 mixture such that the Rh metal content is equivalent to 2 wt Rh. The LZ powder is dispersed in the above mentioned solution for 3 hours. Next hydrazine monohydrate 500 l is added quickly under vigorous stirring at room temperature. The solution is kept under stirring for another hour before being transferred into a sealed Teflon vessel and placed on a turntable tray of an Anton Paar microwave reaction system Synthos 3000 equipped with pressure and temperature sensors. The dispersion is microwaved for 5 min under continuous stirring and 800 W of microwave power. After cooling the dispersion the particles are separated by centrifuge washed with ethanol and dried under vacuum at 10Torr for 48 hours. After drying the Rh deposited pyrochlore catalyst is calcined at 400 600 C. preferably about 500 C. in air for 2 5 hours preferably about 3 hours.

Microwave assisted chemical reduction method which is very different from conventional impregnation methods offers fast and size controlled particle nucleation and deposition on catalytic supports. Microwave irradiation MWI provides a fast dielectric heating to the reaction mixture due to the difference in the reactant and solvent dielectric constants leading to enhancement in the reduction rate of Rh nitrate by hydrazine hydrate. A microwave induced homogeneous nucleation of metal clusters is intended to produce a narrow size distribution of Rh on the catalyst support.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the foregoing preparation methods are presented by way of example only. Various alterations improvements and modifications to the presented preparation methods are within the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.

Catalysts synthesized by the exemplary methods are tested for CO hydrogenation to oxygenated hydrocarbons. The catalyst testing took place in a fixed bed continuous flow reactor shown in . Table 1 shows the reaction conditions used in the CO hydrogenation reaction. Mass flow controllers and are used to deliver N CO and Hto the system. N inert is used as an internal standard to quantify the product stream. Fixed bed containing the catalyst is positioned in the center of an 19 mm i.d. tubular catalytic reactor section and diluted with quartz sand of the same particle size as the catalyst to minimize temperature gradients and channeling throughout the bed. Heat is supplied via a split tube furnace encapsulating catalytic reactor . Bed temperature is measured by an axially centered thermocouple and is controlled by a programmable controller. Reactor pressure is maintained by back pressure regulator and pressure gauge provided pressure indications.

Compositions of oxygenated hydrocarbons and olefins in the reactor effluent are analyzed using a gas chromatograph . Then liquid products are condensed out of the gas stream by a sample conditioner . Dry gas stream is sent to a mass spectrometer to analyze H CO CO and CH. Carbon balances for all experiments are 100 5 .

CO hydrogenation results from catalysts prepared by the exemplary methods are presented in Table 2. Methane methanol ethanol and n propanol values in Table 2 are values taken after 1 hour time on stream during the CO hydrogenation reaction. The main products are methane methanol ethanol and n propanol. Only trace amounts of other oxygenates such as butanol acetone and acetaldehyde are detected and collectively account for less than 1 selectivity. For lanthanum zirconate the results show no selectivity for alcohols. Methane and COare the major products observed with lanthanum zirconate catalyst. The absence of oxygenate formation on lanthanum zirconate confirms the essential role that Rh plays as an active catalyst for CO catalytic hydrogenation into alcohols and other oxygenates. For Rh doped lanthanum zirconate and Rh supported on lanthanum zirconate methanol ethanol and n propanol are observed. The product selectivity is calculated based on carbon efficiency and is defined as 

Thus presented here is a method of hydrogenation where a reactant gas mixture comprising a carbon oxide and a hydrogen agent is contacted with a hydrogenation catalyst where the hydrogenation catalyst comprises a mixed metal oxide containing metal sites supported and or incorporated into the lattice. The mixed metal oxide comprises a perovskite a pyrochlore a fluorite a brownmillerite or mixtures thereof. Contact between the carbon oxide hydrogen agent and hydrogenation catalyst under appropriate conditions of temperature pressure and gas flow rate generate a hydrogenation reaction and produce a hydrogenated product made up of carbon from the carbon oxide and some portion of the hydrogen agent. The carbon oxide may be CO CO or mixtures thereof. In certain embodiments the hydrogen agent is H. In a particular embodiment the hydrogenated product comprises an alcohol an olefin an aldehyde a ketone an ester an oxo product or mixtures thereof.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

