---

title: Mobile device pass through for signaling messages
abstract: A mobile device pass through for signaling messages procedure allows smart devices to participate in and control multimedia communications by providing the ability to control multimedia communications to the smart device by the mobile device. A mobile device and a smart device establish a channel of communications between the mobile device and a web browser executing on the smart device, e.g. when both are connected to the same Wi-Fi access point. When the web browser accesses a web application that utilizes signaling messages to control multimedia content, the web browser will send signaling message requests to the mobile device. The mobile device, in turn, generates and forwards the signaling message. Media content is delivered directly to the smart device without passing through the mobile device or the established channel of communications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635524&OS=09635524&RS=09635524
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09635524
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131217
---
In recent years the explosion of technology has continued. New ideas have emerged to mix together various software and hardware solutions to provide the user with intuitive experiences that simplify the user of these new technologies. Currently with the influx of various smart devices as well as the emergence of software solutions for browsers a true platform independent method of communications may be possible.

A typical smartphone is built with the ability to manage communications such as voice calls and or video calls. This ability includes generating sending receiving and processing signaling messages related to control of these communications. For example signaling messages are used for initiating or terminating a voice call or a videoconference. The smartphone however may not always provide the optimal environment in which to participate in these communications. For example a videoconference involving more than one other party may better be experienced if displayed on a large screen TV.

Other consumer devices such as large screen TVs and tablets have been developed with sufficient capabilities to process the media related to these communications and provide a larger more desirable user interface for many types of usage but many of these consumer devices lack the management ability e.g. signaling message processing of a typical smartphone. As in the above examples a large screen TV may be able to display the audio and video of the videoconference but is unable to initiate or terminate the videoconference call. Thus many of these so called smart devices may provide a better environment in which to participate in multimedia communications but they lack the ability to manage such communications.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

As above a need exists to take advantage of existing technology for example Web Real Time Communications WebRTC application programming interfaces APIs through a web browser on a smart device to gain access to and thereby leverage underlying systems such as the Session Initiation Protocol SIP stack and IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS for signaling on the mobile device and provide smart devices on a shared network access to use the mobile device level systems frameworks to perform device level tasks on any other smart device via the web browser on the smart device.

The various examples disclosed herein relate to a mobile device pass through for signaling messages that allows smart devices to participate in and control multimedia communications by providing the ability to control multimedia communications to the smart device through the mobile device. Signaling messages are messages related to the control of a multimedia communication e.g. used to establish or terminate a voice or media call rather than the multimedia content of the multimedia communication e.g. used to provide voice or media data .

The mobile device and smart device establish for example a local channel of communications between a signaling stack on the mobile device and a web browser executing on the smart device. The mobile device and smart device are for example both connected to the same Wi Fi access point and the established channel of communications is for example a WebSocket over Wi Fi. In this example the web browser executing on the smart device supports WebRTC API functionality. When the web browser seeks access to a web application out on the network which utilizes defined signaling messages e.g. not supported by the smart device to control multimedia content the web browser executing on the smart device will for example send a signaling message request to the signaling stack on the mobile device via the WebSocket over Wi Fi. The mobile device using an existing API on the mobile device will in turn generate the signaling message and pass the generated signaling message to a remote peer over the appropriate network. In reply to the generated signaling message the web application will for example deliver the related media content directly to the smart device without passing through the mobile device or the established local channel of communications.

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below. illustrates the system architecture of the mobile device pass through for signaling messages.

The network also provides communications services to smart device connected to wireless access point via a local router . The example shows simply one smart device however multiple smart devices may utilize mobile device for mobile device pass through for signaling messages. Furthermore additional smart devices may connect to wireless access point and communicate via local router with and or via network without utilizing mobile device for mobile device pass through for signaling messages e.g. because engaged in communications that do not require the particular signaling or because they incorporate the appropriate signaling stack as a native capability.

In addition control of at least some of the communications services is provided via a signal core . The present techniques may be implemented in any of a variety of available networks and or on any type of mobile device compatible with such a network and the drawing shows only a very simplified example of a few relevant elements of the network for purposes of discussion here.

Mobile devices can take the form of portable handsets smart phones or personal digital assistants although they may be implemented in other form factors. Program applications including an application to assist in the mobile device pass through for signaling messages can be configured to execute on many different types of mobile devices . For example a mobile device application can be written to execute on a binary runtime environment for mobile BREW based mobile device a Windows Mobile based mobile device Android iOS for iPhone or iPad Java Mobile or RIM based mobile device such as a BlackBerry or the like. Some of these types of devices can employ a multi tasking operating system.

Examples of a smart device include a laptop or personal computer PC a tablet or e reader and a television TV or other display device. Smart device is capable of communicating with the network via a local data communications network. The local data communications network for example is Wi Fi provided via wireless access point or Ethernet over cable or optical fiber connected directly to local router . The smart device is also capable of communicating with mobile device via the local data communications network but does not rely on the mobile device to communicate with the network for all purposes. For example smart device accesses web applications via network directly but signaling messages related to at least one web application e.g. videoconferencing pass through mobile device . Smart device executes for example a web browser to establish communications with and or via network . Smart device in such an example uses the web browser to establish communications with a web application via network .

Each mobile device communicates over the air with a base station and through the traffic network for various voice and data communications e.g. through the Internet with a server and or with application servers. Alternatively mobile device for example communicates via wireless access point and local router with and or via network .

For purposes of further discussion we will focus on functions in support of mobile device pass through for signaling messages. For a given communication an application program within the mobile device or the web browser executing on smart device may be considered as a client and programming within network and or signal core may be considered as the server application for the particular communication.

In one example a user of smart device desires to call a user of mobile device . When the call is placed as described in further detail below in relation to smart device requests mobile device to generate the necessary signaling messages to control the call. The request is passed in this example over Wi Fi via the wireless access point . In turn mobile device generates and sends the necessary signaling messages to signal core which forwards signaling messages or generates and sends other but related signaling messages to the mobile device depending on requirements of the applicable protocol . Once the call is established media related to the call e.g. voice and or video is exchanged directly between smart device and mobile device without passing through mobile device . Any subsequent signaling messages however are passed through mobile device .

The mobile device pass through for signaling messages under consideration here may be provided by touch screen type mobile devices as well as by non touch type mobile devices. Hence our simple example shows the mobile device as a non touch type mobile device however mobile device may alternatively be a touch screen type mobile device. Implementation of the mobile device pass through for signaling messages will involve at least some execution of programming in the mobile devices as well as implementation of user input output functions and data communications through the network from the mobile devices. It may be useful to consider the functional elements aspects of examples of two types of mobile devices at a high level.

For purposes of such discussion provides a block diagram illustration of an example of a non touch type mobile device . Either or both of the mobile devices of may be implemented as a non touch mobile station as shown at in . Although the mobile device may be a smart phone or may be incorporated into another device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or the like for discussion purposes the illustration shows the mobile device is in the form of a handset. The handset embodiment of the mobile device functions as a normal digital wireless telephone station. For that function the station includes a microphone for audio signal input and a speaker for audio signal output. The microphone and speaker connect to voice coding and decoding circuitry vocoder . For a voice telephone call for example the vocoder provides two way conversion between analog audio signals representing speech or other audio and digital samples at a compressed bit rate compatible with the digital protocol of wireless telephone network communications or voice over packet Internet Protocol communications.

For digital wireless communications including wireless data communications the handset also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR . Today the handset would be configured for digital wireless communications using one or more of the common network technology types. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile device utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. The mobile device may also be capable of analog operation via a legacy network technology.

The transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile device and the communication network such as the signaling messages requested by smart device in relation to a call with mobile device . Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

The mobile device includes a display for displaying messages menus or the like call related information dialed by the user calling party numbers etc. A keypad enables dialing digits for voice and or data calls as well as generating selection inputs for example as may be keyed in by the user based on a displayed menu or as a cursor control and selection of a highlighted item on a displayed screen. The display and keypad are the physical elements providing a textual or graphical user interface. Various combinations of the keypad display microphone and speaker may be used as the physical input output elements of the graphical user interface GUI for multimedia e.g. audio and or video communications. Of course other user interface elements may be used such as a trackball as in some types of PDAs or smart phones.

A microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile device in that it controls all operations of the mobile device in accord with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in the mobile device pass through for signaling messages procedure under consideration here. In the example the mobile device includes flash type program memory for storage of various software or firmware program routines and mobile configuration settings such as mobile directory number MDN and or mobile identification number MIN etc. The mobile device may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. In a present implementation the flash type program memory stores firmware such as a boot routine device driver software an operating system application programming interface s APIs call processing software and vocoder control software and any of a wide variety of other applications such as client browser software and short message service software any of which may operate with active user intervention or in the background without user intervention. The APIs include signaling messages functionality e.g. SIP and or other protocol s supported on the IMS for generating delivering receiving and processing signaling messages with and or via a signal core such as signal core . The memories also store various data such as telephone numbers and server addresses downloaded data such as multimedia content and various data input by the user. Programming stored in the flash type program memory sometimes referred to as firmware is loaded into and executed by the microprocessor .

As outlined above the mobile device includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile device is capable of performing various desired functions including in this case the functions involved in the technique for providing mobile device pass through for signaling messages.

For purposes of such a discussion provides a block diagram illustration of an example of a touch screen type mobile device . Either or both of the mobile devices of may be implemented as a touch screen mobile station as shown at in . Although possibly configured somewhat differently at least logically a number of the elements of the touch screen type mobile device are similar to the elements of mobile device and are identified by like reference numbers in . For example the touch screen type mobile device includes a microphone speaker and vocoder for audio input and output functions much like in the earlier example. The mobile device also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR for digital wireless communications although the handset may include an additional digital or analog transceiver. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile device utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. As in the mobile device the transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile device and the communication network such as the signaling messages requested by smart device in relation to a call with mobile device . Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

As in the example of mobile device a microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile device in that it controls all operations of the mobile device in accord with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in the mobile device pass through for signaling messages procedure under consideration here. In the example the mobile device includes flash type program memory for storage of various program routines and mobile configuration settings. The mobile device may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. Similar to the implementation of mobile device the flash type program memory stores firmware such as a boot routine device driver software an operating system API s call processing software and vocoder control software and any of a wide variety of other applications such as client browser software and short message service software any of which may operate with active user intervention or in the background without user intervention. The APIs include signaling messages functionality e.g. SIP and or other protocol s supported on the IMS for generating delivering receiving and processing signaling messages with and or via a signal core such as signal core .

Hence outlined above the mobile device includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile device is capable of performing various desired functions including in this case the functions involved in the technique for providing mobile device pass through for signaling messages.

In the example of the user interface elements included a display and a keypad. The mobile device may have a limited number of keys but the user interface functions of the display and keypad are replaced by a touchscreen display arrangement. At a high level a touchscreen display is a device that displays information to a user and can detect occurrence and location of a touch on the area of the display. The touch may be an actual touch of the display device with a finger stylus or other object although at least some touchscreens can also sense when the object is in close proximity to the screen. Use of a touchscreen display as part of the user interface enables a user to interact directly with the information presented on the display.

Hence the mobile device in our example includes a display which the microprocessor controls via a display driver to present visible outputs to the device user. The mobile device also includes a touch position sensor . The sensor is relatively transparent so that the user may view the information presented on the display . A sense circuit sensing signals from elements of the touch position sensor and detects occurrence and position of each touch of the screen formed by the display and sensor . The sense circuit provides touch position information to the microprocessor which can correlate that information to the information currently displayed via the display to determine the nature of user input via the screen.

The display and touch sensor and possibly one or more keys if included are the physical elements providing the textual and graphical user interface for the mobile device . The microphone and speaker may be used as additional user interface elements for audio input and output.

The structure and operation of the mobile devices and as outlined above were described to by way of example only.

As described above in relation to mobile devices support the capability to generate send receive and process signaling messages such as those signaling messages needed to control a call controlled via the IMS signaling core . Mobile devices also support the capability to exchange and process media related to a call such as voice and or video. Smart device also supports the capability to exchange and process media related to a call. Smart device however does not support the capability to generate send receive and process signaling messages. Therefore as described in further detail below mobile device pass through for signaling messages facilitates for example smart device to manage a call with mobile device by passing requests for signaling messages from smart device to mobile device which in turn forwards appropriate signaling messages to mobile device . In addition mobile device pass through for signaling messages further facilitates call management by smart device for example when mobile device receives responses to the appropriate signaling messages from mobile device and passes or generates appropriate responses back to smart device .

With an understanding of elements that may be used or operate in system as outlined above and shown at it may be helpful next to consider several examples of procedures involved in or relating to mobile device pass through for signaling messages.

In step the mobile device is powered on. At step the mobile device sends in response to being powered on a register message to the signal core . The register message for example is a SIP Register message sent to the SIP server or the SIP application server . When the signal core receives the register message at step the signal core determines if the mobile device was previously authorized or if the register message contains credentials. If the mobile device was not previously authorized or if the register message does not contain credentials the signal core sends an unauthorized message to the mobile device at step . The unauthorized message for example is a SIP Unauthorized message.

When the mobile device receives the unauthorized message the mobile device sends at step a register message with credentials to the signal core . The register message for example is a SIP Register request and the credentials for example include a username or user identifier of the user of the mobile device . An example of the credential is user vzw.com. The signal core receives the register message with credentials and determines that the mobile device is authorized. At step the signal core sends an authorized user message to mobile device . For example signal core sends a SIP Authorized User message to mobile device as a response to the request from step .

In step the smart device opens the channel of communications with the mobile device . For example the user of smart device in anticipation of initiating the call launches a web browser on smart device and enters the address of the mobile device e.g. user enters the uniform resource locator URL of the mobile device in the web browser executing on smart device . The address e.g. URL of the mobile device may be provided to the user by mobile device for manual entry by the user and or may be embedded or otherwise included in a configuration of the web browser such that the address is entered into the web browser automatically. In response to the user s actions the web browser executing on the smart device establishes the channel of communications with the mobile device . The channel of communications is for example a WebSocket. Alternatively the channel of communications could be a Comet channel and or any other form of full duplex communications utilizing a single TCP connection. WebSocket is a protocol providing full duplex communications channels over a single TCP connection. Typically a WebSocket connection is established between a web server and a web browser using TCP port . Such a WebSocket connection allows for a stream of messages to flow between two devices.

In this example the smart device executes a web browser. The web browser executing on smart device for example implements a WebRTC API. The WebRTC API is an API that facilitates real time communications within a web browser. Although the examples described refer to the WebRTC API this is only for simplicity and any API that translates and transports signaling messages between a web browser and a server or between a media stack on one device and a signal stack on another device could alternatively be utilized.

In step the web browser executing on smart device queries the registration status of mobile device . For example the web browser executing on smart device queries whether the mobile device has completed a registration process such as the SIP registration as described in relation to above. If mobile device has not completed the registration process mobile device will proceed in one example to complete the registration process as part of step not depicted . In step the mobile device returns a registration state OK message to the web browser executing on smart device . For example the mobile device informs the web browser executing on smart device that the SIP registration as described in relation to was successful. In turn the web browser may display a registration state OK message to the user of smart device so that the user is aware for example that the call may be initiated.

Although not shown in mobile device may authenticate smart device and or the user of smart device either prior to establishing the channel of communication or in response to the registration status query. Mobile device determines for example if smart device and mobile device are logically located on the same subnet e.g. share similar Internet Protocol IP addresses in which case mobile device does not require any further authentication from smart device and smart device is authorized to request mobile device to generate control signals. Alternatively mobile device prompts for example the user of smart device to enter a username and password or some other type of credential for authentication as part of the web page request process described above. For example in response to the web browser establishing the channel of communication with mobile device mobile device may provide a web page to the web browser of smart device . The web page in this example requires the user of smart device to enter a username and password into the web page and submit the web page with the entered username and password back to mobile device . Mobile device upon verification of the username and password then allows the channel of communication to be established.

Continuing the example at step the web browser executing on smart device opens a media path via media stack . For example the web browser executing on smart device opens a WebSocket connection over Wi Fi with mobile device as described above in relation to . In this example the web browser executing on smart device is able to access the web application but is unable to generate control signals e.g. SIP messages related to the web based application. Mobile device however is able to generate control signals e.g. SIP messages related to the web application. The WebRTC API implemented on smart device in conjunction with a WebSocket connection such as described in and established in step allows the web browser executing on the smart device to pass requests for control signals to mobile device and receive responses to requested control signals from mobile device .

At step the web browser executing on smart device gets user media via media stack . For example the web browser requests access to a microphone a camera and or speakers of smart device . The web browser executing on smart device then at step requests the mobile device to make the call. In our example the web browser executing on smart device uses the WebSocket established in response to the open media path step to pass a make call request to mobile device . The make call request includes for example a media description of the call. The media description for example includes the dialed number as well as any other information necessary to make the call such as the address of SIP server and or SIP application server .

Mobile device after receiving the make call request at step generates an invite message at step via signal stack . The invite message includes the dialed number and is sent to the signal core . Although not shown mobile device may alternatively send the invite message and any subsequent signaling messages directly to mobile device without signal core . The invite message for example is a SIP Invite and is sent to SIP and or SIP application server of IMS . The signal core in turn delivers the invite message to the signal stack of mobile device at step .

Although the examples reference mobile device for simplicity the destination may be any device capable of receiving a voice and or video call including an additional smart device utilizing mobile device pass through for signaling messages as described herein. In such an example including an additional smart device mobile device is still the intended recipient of the control signals and mobile device is the source of control signal responses. Additionally mobile device generates and receives the control signals and responses on behalf of the additional smart device in a similar fashion to mobile device . That is in such an example mobile device may be replaced with mobile device and smart device .

When the signal stack of mobile device receives the invite at step the signal stack of mobile device informs the media stack of mobile device of the incoming call. The signal stack is for example SIP and or IMS APIs and the media stack is for example an application providing support for the call. For example the application may be the same or another web application providing a SIP based calling service. The signal stack of mobile device also generates a ringing message back to the signal core at step and the signal core forwards the ringing message to mobile device at step . Alternatively as mentioned above if mobile device sends the invite message directly to mobile device mobile device may send the ringing message and any subsequent signaling messages directly back to mobile device .

At step the media stack of mobile device opens a media path and the media stack gets user media at step . Similarly to the web browser of smart device in step for example the media stack requests access to a microphone a camera and or speakers of mobile device . The media stack also accepts the call at step and generates a call accepted message to the signal stack at step . The signal stack then generates a media answer message at step and forwards the media answer message to the signal core . The signal core in turn delivers an OK media message to mobile device at step and mobile device delivers a call accepted message to the web browser executing on smart device at step .

In step a second channel of communications is established and media related to the call is exchanged directly between the web browser executing on smart device via media stack and the media stack of mobile device . The second channel of communications is for example a TCP based session directly between smart device and mobile device i.e. involving network elements but not passing through mobile device . As a further example voice and or video is sent from the web browser executing on smart device directly to mobile device over Wi Fi via wireless access point local router and network utilizing the TCP based session and or any other protocol as is known to deliver media related to a call between two devices. Such voice and or video is sent directly between smart device and mobile device without passing via mobile device or the established WebSocket between the web browser executing on smart device and mobile device . Control signals between smart device and mobile device however as described below in reference to still employ mobile device as a pass through device.

The media stack of mobile device at step informs the user of mobile device of the call termination. For example the application executing on mobile device and supporting the call generates a notice and displays the notice to the user. The signal stack of mobile device also sends a terminated message to signal core at step . The terminated message for example is a SIP Terminated message. The signal core then sends the terminated message to the mobile device at step . For example signal core sends a SIP Terminated message to mobile device . At step the media exchange directly between the web browser executing on smart device and the mobile device is closed. For example the TCP based session between smart device and mobile device is terminated.

The examples above related to describe a process flow for call initiation and termination. Such examples assume smart device initiates and terminates the call. Mobile device however may alternatively initiate and or terminate the call in which case the flows in would simply be reversed.

Although the above examples describe initiation of a call by a web browser executing on smart device such initiation does not have to occur on smart device . Alternatively steps of may be performed directly on mobile device . For example the user may decide to initiate the call while using mobile device directly. In this example the user may then decide smart device provides a better environment in which to conduct the call. For example the call is initially a voice call and the user subsequently desires to add video to the call which would be better displayed on smart device . Or the call is initially a video call with only one other party but then the user desires to add additional parties which would be better displayed on smart device .

Once the user decides to use smart device the user executes the web browser on smart device and accesses the same web application supporting the call. As in the previous examples the web application is a SIP based calling service and the user utilizes the web browser executing on smart device to access the SIP based calling service. At this point the web browser executing on smart device establishes a channel of communications with mobile device as described in relation to above. The web browser executing on the smart device then utilizes for example the WebRTC API implemented on smart device to pass control signals related to the call to mobile device over the established WebSocket as described in . The web application also redirects the media exchange to occur directly between the web browser executing on smart device and mobile device . In this way the call is transitioned from the mobile device to smart device . The process may also be reversed to transition the call from smart device to mobile device .

In general mobile device pass through for signaling messages as described in the various examples provides a user the flexibility to select the device either mobile device or smart device that is best situated to participate in a call. Mobile device pass through for signaling messages also provides the user the flexibility to change the device selection during the call. Where the user selects the smart device or transfers the call to the smart device the call set up transfer and or termination rely on the native signaling capability of the mobile device without requiring similar capability in the smart device .

In addition although the various examples depict call initiation and termination in particular utilizing SIP such specific call processing and or use of SIP signaling are given by way of example and for simplicity only. Therefore the principles of mobile device pass through for signaling messages as described above may be applied to any other situation where signaling messages are generated and passed by a device level system or framework API specific to the mobile device. The technique may also apply in a situation for example where a mobile device is able to generate and deliver a signaling message to a destination for which the smart device cannot. One such situation may be a mobile device delivering a print request to a printer for which the smart device does not have the driver and or necessary capability to submit the print request itself.

Mobile device pass through for signaling messages has been described by way of examples only. Such mobile device pass through for signaling messages as described above may be implemented by configuration of computer platforms as in the SIP server and or SIP application server . Such configuration typically entails programming for the processors. Therefore it may be helpful to briefly consider programmable computers e.g. for server operations and or for other types of end user or terminal devices.

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load.

A computer type user terminal device such as a PC or tablet computer similarly includes a data communication interface CPU main memory and one or more mass storage devices for storing user data and the various executable programs see . A mobile device type user terminal may include similar elements but will typically use smaller components that also require less power to facilitate implementation in a portable form factor. The various types of user terminal devices will also include various user input and output elements. A computer for example may include a keyboard and a cursor control selection device such as a mouse trackball joystick or touchpad and a display for visual outputs. A microphone and speaker enable audio input and output. Some smartphones include similar but smaller input and output elements. Tablets and other types of smartphones utilize touch sensitive display screens instead of separate keyboard and cursor control elements. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such user terminal devices also are conventional in nature.

Hence aspects of the mobile device pass through for signaling messages outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another or from a host server into a mobile device . Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the CSCF etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

