---

title: Security system with networked touchscreen
abstract: An integrated security system integrates broadband and mobile access and control with conventional security systems and premise devices to provide a tri-mode security network that with remote connectivity and access. The integrated security system includes a touchscreen providing security keypad functionality as well as content management and presentation, and is used as a security system interface and an interface for interacting with a network. The integrated security system delivers remote premise monitoring and control functionality to conventional monitored premise protection and complements existing premise protection equipment. The integrated security system integrates into the premise network and couples wirelessly with the conventional security panel, enabling broadband access to premise security systems. Automation devices can be added, enabling users to remotely see live video or pictures and control home devices via a personal web portal, mobile phone, or other client device. Users can receive notifications of detected events via electronic message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09306809&OS=09306809&RS=09306809
owner: iControl Networks, Inc.
number: 09306809
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131217
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 197 946 filed Aug. 25 2008.

This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 718 851 filed Dec. 18 2012.

This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 932 837 filed Jul. 1 2013.

This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 761 745 filed Jun. 12 2007.

This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 019 568 filed Jan. 24 2008.

This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 925 181 filed Jun. 24 2013.

This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 531 757 filed Jun. 25 2012.

This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 335 279 filed Dec. 22 2011.

The embodiments described herein relate generally to a method and apparatus for improving the capabilities of security systems in home and business applications. More particularly the embodiments described herein relate to a touchscreen device that integrates security system control and functionality with network content interactivity management and presentation.

The field of home and small business security is dominated by technology suppliers who build comprehensive closed security systems where the individual components sensors security panels keypads operate solely within the confines of a single vendor solution. For example a wireless motion sensor from vendor A cannot be used with a security panel from vendor B. Each vendor typically has developed sophisticated proprietary wireless technologies to enable the installation and management of wireless sensors with little or no ability for the wireless devices to operate separate from the vendor s homogeneous system. Furthermore these traditional systems are extremely limited in their ability to interface either to a local or wide area standards based network such as an IP network most installed systems support only a low bandwidth intermittent connection utilizing phone lines or cellular RF backup systems. Wireless security technology from providers such as GE Security Honeywell and DSC Tyco are well known in the art and are examples of this proprietary approach to security systems for home and business.

Furthermore with the proliferation of the internet ethernet and WiFi local area networks LANs and advanced wide area networks WANs that offer high bandwidth low latency connections broadband as well as more advanced wireless WAN data networks e.g. GPRS or CDMA 1 RTT there increasingly exists the networking capability to extend these traditional security systems to offer enhanced functionality. In addition the proliferation of broadband access has driven a corresponding increase in home and small business networking technologies and devices. It is desirable to extend traditional security systems to encompass enhanced functionality such as the ability to control and manage security systems from the world wide web cellular telephones or advanced function internet based devices. Other desired functionality includes an open systems approach to interface home security systems to home and small business networks.

Due to the proprietary approach described above the traditional vendors are the only ones capable of taking advantage of these new network functions. To date even though the vast majority of home and business customers have broadband network access in their premises most security systems do not offer the advanced capabilities associated with high speed low latency LANs and WANs. This is primarily because the proprietary vendors have not been able to deliver such technology efficiently or effectively. Solution providers attempting to address this need are becoming known in the art including three categories of vendors traditional proprietary hardware providers such as Honeywell and GE Security third party hard wired module providers such as Alarm.com NextAlarm and uControl and new proprietary systems providers such as InGrid.

A disadvantage of the prior art technologies of the traditional proprietary hardware providers arises due to the continued proprietary approach of these vendors. As they develop technology in this area it once again operates only with the hardware from that specific vendor ignoring the need for a heterogeneous cross vendor solution. Yet another disadvantage of the prior art technologies of the traditional proprietary hardware providers arises due to the lack of experience and capability of these companies in creating open internet and web based solutions and consumer friendly interfaces.

A disadvantage of the prior art technologies of the third party hard wired module providers arises due to the installation and operational complexities and functional limitations associated with hardwiring a new component into existing security systems. Moreover a disadvantage of the prior art technologies of the new proprietary systems providers arises due to the need to discard all prior technologies and implement an entirely new form of security system to access the new functionalities associated with broadband and wireless data networks. There remains therefore a need for systems devices and methods that easily interface to and control the existing proprietary security technologies utilizing a variety of wireless technologies.

Each patent patent application and or publication mentioned in this specification is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety to the same extent as if each individual patent patent application and or publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

An integrated security system is described that integrates broadband and mobile access and control with conventional security systems and premise devices to provide a tri mode security network broadband cellular GSM POTS access that enables users to remotely stay connected to their premises. The integrated security system while delivering remote premise monitoring and control functionality to conventional monitored premise protection complements existing premise protection equipment. The integrated security system integrates into the premise network and couples wirelessly with the conventional security panel enabling broadband access to premise security systems. Automation devices cameras lamp modules thermostats etc. can be added enabling users to remotely see live video and or pictures and control home devices via their personal web portal or webpage mobile phone and or other remote client device. Users can also receive notifications via email or text message when happenings occur or do not occur in their home.

Although the detailed description herein contains many specifics for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the embodiments described herein. Thus the following illustrative embodiments are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention.

In accordance with the embodiments described herein a wireless system e.g. radio frequency RF is provided that enables a security provider or consumer to extend the capabilities of an existing RE capable security system or a non RF capable security system that has been upgraded to support RF capabilities. The system includes an RF capable Gateway device physically located within RF range of the RF capable security system and associated software operating on the Gateway device. The system also includes a web server application server and remote database providing a persistent store for information related to the system.

The security systems of an embodiment referred to herein as the iControl security system or integrated security system extend the value of traditional home security by adding broadband access and the advantages of remote home monitoring and home control through the formation of a security network including components of the integrated security system integrated with a conventional premise security system and a premise local area network LAN . With the integrated security system conventional home security sensors cameras touchscreen keypads lighting controls and or Internet Protocol IP devices in the home or business become connected devices that are accessible anywhere in the world from a web browser mobile phone or through content enabled touchscreens. The integrated security system experience allows security operators to both extend the value proposition of their monitored security systems and reach new consumers that include broadband users interested in staying connected to their family home and property when they are away from home.

The integrated security system of an embodiment includes security servers also referred to herein as iConnect servers or security network servers and an iHub gateway also referred to herein as the gateway the iHub or the iHub client that couples or integrates into a home network e.g. LAN and communicates directly with the home security panel in both wired and wireless installations. The security system of an embodiment automatically discovers the security system components e.g. sensors etc. belonging to the security system and connected to a control panel of the security system and provides consumers with full two way access via web and mobile portals. The gateway supports various wireless protocols and can interconnect with a wide range of control panels offered by security system providers. Service providers and users can then extend the system s capabilities with the additional IP cameras lighting modules or security devices such as interactive touchscreen keypads. The integrated security system adds an enhanced value to these security systems by enabling consumers to stay connected through email and SMS alerts photo push event based video capture and rule based monitoring and notifications. This solution extends the reach of home security to households with broadband access.

The integrated security system builds upon the foundation afforded by traditional security systems by layering broadband and mobile access IP cameras interactive touchscreens and an open approach to home automation on top of traditional security system configurations. The integrated security system is easily installed and managed by the security operator and simplifies the traditional security installation process as described below.

The integrated security system provides an open systems solution to the home security market. As such the foundation of the integrated security system customer premises equipment CPE approach has been to abstract devices and allows applications to manipulate and manage multiple devices from any vendor. The integrated security system DeviceConnect technology that enables this capability supports protocols devices and panels from GE Security and Honeywell as well as consumer devices using Z Wave IP cameras e.g. Ethernet wifi and Homeplug and IP touchscreens. The DeviceConnect is a device abstraction layer that enables any device or protocol layer to interoperate with integrated security system components. This architecture enables the addition of new devices supporting any of these interfaces as well as add entirely new protocols.

The benefit of DeviceConnect is that it provides supplier flexibility. The same consistent touchscreen web and mobile user experience operate unchanged on whatever security equipment selected by a security system provider with the system provider s choice of IP cameras backend data center and central station software.

The integrated security system provides a complete system that integrates or layers on top of a conventional host security system available from a security system provider. The security system provider therefore can select different components or configurations to offer e.g. CDMA GPRS no cellular etc. as well as have iControl modify the integrated security system configuration for the system provider s specific needs e.g. change the functionality of the web or mobile portal add a GE or Honeywell compatible TouchScreen etc. .

The integrated security system integrates with the security system provider infrastructure for central station reporting directly via Broadband and GPRS alarm transmissions. Traditional dial up reporting is supported via the standard panel connectivity. Additionally the integrated security system provides interfaces for advanced functionality to the CMS including enhanced alarm events system installation optimizations system test verification video verification 2 way voice over IP and GSM.

The integrated security system is an IP centric system that includes broadband connectivity so that the gateway augments the existing security system with broadband and GPRS connectivity. If broadband is down or unavailable GPRS may be used for example. The integrated security system supports GPRS connectivity using an optional wireless package that includes a GPRS modem in the gateway. The integrated security system treats the GPRS connection as a higher cost though flexible option for data transfers. In an embodiment the GPRS connection is only used to route alarm events e.g. for cost however the gateway can be configured e.g. through the iConnect server interface to act as a primary channel and pass any or all events over GPRS. Consequently the integrated security system does not interfere with the current plain old telephone service POTS security panel interface. Alarm events can still be routed through POTS however the gateway also allows such events to be routed through a broadband or GPRS connection as well. The integrated security system provides a web application interface to the CSR tool suite as well as XML web services interfaces for programmatic integration between the security system provider s existing call center products. The integrated security system includes for example APIs that allow the security system provider to integrate components of the integrated security system into a custom call center interface. The APIs include XML web service APIs for integration of existing security system provider call center applications with the integrated security system service. All functionality available in the CSR Web application is provided with these API sets. The Java and XML based APIs of the integrated security system support provisioning billing system administration CSR central station portal user interfaces and content management functions to name a few. The integrated security system can provide a customized interface to the security system provider s billing system or alternatively can provide security system developers with APIs and support in the integration effort.

The integrated security system provides or includes business component interfaces for provisioning administration and customer care to name a few. Standard templates and examples are provided with a defined customer professional services engagement to help integrate OSS BSS systems of a Service Provider with the integrated security system.

The integrated security system components support and allow for the integration of customer account creation and deletion with a security system. The iConnect APIs provides access to the provisioning and account management system in iConnect and provide full support for account creation provisioning and deletion. Depending on the requirements of the security system provider the iConnect APIs can be used to completely customize any aspect of the integrated security system backend operational system.

The integrated security system includes a gateway that supports the following standards based interfaces to name a few Ethernet IP communications via Ethernet ports on the gateway and standard XML TCP IP protocols and ports are employed over secured SSL sessions USB 2.0 via ports on the gateway 802.11b g n IP communications GSM GPRS RF WAN communications CDMA 1 RTT RF WAN communications optional can also support EVDO and 3G technologies .

The gateway supports the following proprietary interfaces to name a few interfaces including Dialog RF network 319.5 MHz and RS485 Superbus 2000 wired interface RF mesh network 908 MHz and interfaces including RF network 345 MHz and RS485 RS232 bus wired interfaces.

Regarding security for the IP communications e.g. authentication authorization encryption anti spoofing etc the integrated security system uses SSL to encrypt all IP traffic using server and client certificates for authentication as well as authentication in the data sent over the SSL encrypted channel. For encryption integrated security system issues public private key pairs at the time place of manufacture and certificates are not stored in any online storage in an embodiment.

The integrated security system does not need any special rules at the customer premise and or at the security system provider central station because the integrated security system makes outgoing connections using TCP over the standard HTTP and HTTPS ports. Provided outbound TCP connections are allowed then no special requirements on the firewalls are necessary.

The integrated security system service also referred to as iControl service can be managed by a service provider via browser based Maintenance and Service Management applications that are provided with the iConnect Servers. Or if desired the service can be more tightly integrated with existing OSS BSS and service delivery systems via the iConnect web services based XML APIs.

The integrated security system service can also coordinate the sending of alarms to the home security Central Monitoring Station CMS . Alarms are passed to the CMS using standard protocols such as Contact ID or SIA and can be generated from the home security panel location as well as by iConnect server conditions such as lack of communications with the integrated security system . In addition the link between the security servers and CMS provides tighter integration between home security and self monitoring devices and the gateway . Such integration enables advanced security capabilities such as the ability for CMS personnel to view photos taken at the time a burglary alarm was triggered. For maximum security the gateway and iConnect servers support the use of a mobile network both GPRS and CDMA options are available as a backup to the primary broadband connection.

The integrated security system service is delivered by hosted servers running software components that communicate with a variety of client types while interacting with other systems. is a block diagram of components of the integrated security system under an embodiment. Following is a more detailed description of the components.

The iConnect servers support a diverse collection of clients ranging from mobile devices to PCs to in home security devices to a service provider s internal systems. Most clients are used by end users but there are also a number of clients that are used to operate the service.

In addition to the end user clients the iConnect servers support PC browser based Service Management clients that manage the ongoing operation of the overall service. These clients run applications that handle tasks such as provisioning service monitoring customer support and reporting.

There are numerous types of server components of the iConnect servers of an embodiment including but not limited to the following Business Components which manage information about all of the home security and self monitoring devices End User Application Components which display that information for users and access the Business Components via published XML APIs and Service Management Application Components which enable operators to administer the service these components also access the Business Components via the XML APIs and also via published SNMP MIBs .

The server components provide access to and management of the objects associated with an integrated security system installation. The top level object is the network. It is a location where a gateway is located and is also commonly referred to as a site or premises the premises can include any type of structure e.g. home office warehouse etc. at which a gateway is located. Users can only access the networks to which they have been granted permission. Within a network every object monitored by the gateway is called a device. Devices include the sensors cameras home security panels and automation devices as well as the controller or processor based device running the gateway applications.

Various types of interactions are possible between the objects in a system. Automations define actions that occur as a result of a change in state of a device. For example take a picture with the front entry camera when the front door sensor changes to open . Notifications are messages sent to users to indicate that something has occurred such as the front door going to open state or has not occurred referred to as an iWatch notification . Schedules define changes in device states that are to take place at predefined days and times. For example set the security panel to Armed mode every weeknight at 11 00 pm.

The iConnect Business Components are responsible for orchestrating all of the low level service management activities for the integrated security system service. They define all of the users and devices associated with a network site analyze how the devices interact and trigger associated actions such as sending notifications to users . All changes in device states are monitored and logged. The Business Components also manage all interactions with external systems as required including sending alarms and other related self monitoring data to the home security Central Monitoring System CMS . The Business Components are implemented as portable Java J2EE Servlets but are not so limited.

The following iConnect Business Components manage the main elements of the integrated security system service but the embodiment is not so limited 

Additional iConnect Business Components handle direct communications with certain clients and other systems for example 

The iConnect Business Components store information about the objects that they manage in the iControl Service Database and in the iControl Content Store . The iControl Content Store is used to store media objects like video photos and widget content while the Service Database stores information about users networks and devices. Database interaction is performed via a JDBC interface. For security purposes the Business Components manage all data storage and retrieval.

The iControl Business Components provide web services based APIs that application components use to access the Business Components capabilities. Functions of application components include presenting integrated security system service data to end users performing administrative duties and integrating with external systems and back office applications.

The primary published APIs for the iConnect Business Components include but are not limited to the following 

Each API of an embodiment includes two modes of access Java API or XML API. The XML APIs are published as web services so that they can be easily accessed by applications or servers over a network. The Java APIs are a programmer friendly wrapper for the XML APIs. Application components and integrations written in Java should generally use the Java APIs rather than the XML APIs directly.

The iConnect Business Components also have an XML based interface for quickly adding support for new devices to the integrated security system. This interface referred to as DeviceConnect is a flexible standards based mechanism for defining the properties of new devices and how they can be managed. Although the format is flexible enough to allow the addition of any type of future device pre defined XML profiles are currently available for adding common types of devices such as sensors SensorConnect home security panels PanelConnect and IP cameras CameraConnect .

The iConnect End User Application Components deliver the user interfaces that run on the different types of clients supported by the integrated security system service. The components are written in portable Java J2EE technology e.g. as Java Servlets as JavaServer Pages JSPs etc. and they all interact with the iControl Business Components via the published APIs.

The following End User Application Components generate CSS based HTML JavaScript that is displayed on the target client. These applications can be dynamically branded with partner specific logos and URL links such as Customer Support etc. . The End User Application Components of an embodiment include but are not limited to the following 

A number of Application Components are responsible for overall management of the service. These pre defined applications referred to as Service Management Application Components are configured to offer off the shelf solutions for production management of the integrated security system service including provisioning overall service monitoring customer support and reporting for example. The Service Management Application Components of an embodiment include but are not limited to the following 

The iConnect servers also support custom built integrations with a service provider s existing OSS BSS CSR and service delivery systems . Such systems can access the iConnect web services XML API to transfer data to and from the iConnect servers . These types of integrations can compliment or replace the PC browser based Service Management applications depending on service provider needs.

As described above the integrated security system of an embodiment includes a gateway or iHub. The gateway of an embodiment includes a device that is deployed in the home or business and couples or connects the various third party cameras home security panels sensors and devices to the iConnect server over a WAN connection as described in detail herein. The gateway couples to the home network and communicates directly with the home security panel in both wired and wireless sensor installations. The gateway is configured to be low cost reliable and thin so that it complements the integrated security system network based architecture.

The gateway supports various wireless protocols and can interconnect with a wide range of home security control panels. Service providers and users can then extend the system s capabilities by adding IP cameras lighting modules and additional security devices. The gateway is configurable to be integrated into many consumer appliances including set top boxes routers and security panels. The small and efficient footprint of the gateway enables this portability and versatility thereby simplifying and reducing the overall cost of the deployment.

The gateway application layer is the main program that orchestrates the operations performed by the gateway. The Security Engine provides robust protection against intentional and unintentional intrusion into the integrated security system network from the outside world both from inside the premises as well as from the WAN . The Security Engine of an embodiment comprises one or more sub modules or components that perform functions including but not limited to the following 

As standards evolve and new encryption and authentication methods are proven to be useful and older mechanisms proven to be breakable the security manager can be upgraded over the air to provide new and better security for communications between the iConnect server and the gateway application and locally at the premises to remove any risk of eavesdropping on camera communications.

A Remote Firmware Download module allows for seamless and secure updates to the gateway firmware through the iControl Maintenance Application on the server providing a transparent hassle free mechanism for the service provider to deploy new features and bug fixes to the installed user base. The firmware download mechanism is tolerant of connection loss power interruption and user interventions both intentional and unintentional . Such robustness reduces down time and customer support issues. Gateway firmware can be remotely download either for one gateway at a time a group of gateways or in batches.

The Automations engine manages the user defined rules of interaction between the different devices e.g. when door opens turn on the light . Though the automation rules are programmed and reside at the portal server level they are cached at the gateway level in order to provide short latency between device triggers and actions.

DeviceConnect includes definitions of all supported devices e.g. cameras security panels sensors etc. using a standardized plug in architecture. The DeviceConnect module offers an interface that can be used to quickly add support for any new device as well as enabling interoperability between devices that use different technologies protocols. For common device types pre defined sub modules have been defined making supporting new devices of these types even easier. SensorConnect is provided for adding new sensors CameraConnect for adding IP cameras and PanelConnect for adding home security panels.

The Schedules engine is responsible for executing the user defined schedules e.g. take a picture every five minutes every day at 8 am set temperature to 65 degrees Fahrenheit etc. . Though the schedules are programmed and reside at the iConnect server level they are sent to the scheduler within the gateway application. The Schedules Engine then interfaces with SensorConnect to ensure that scheduled events occur at precisely the desired time.

The Device Management module is in charge of all discovery installation and configuration of both wired and wireless IP devices e.g. cameras etc. coupled or connected to the system. Networked IP devices such as those used in the integrated security system require user configuration of many IP and security parameters to simplify the user experience and reduce the customer support burden the device management module of an embodiment handles the details of this configuration. The device management module also manages the video routing module described below.

The video routing engine is responsible for delivering seamless video streams to the user with zero configuration. Through a multi step staged approach the video routing engine uses a combination of UPnP port forwarding relay server routing and STUN TURN peer to peer routing.

Referring to the WAN portion of the gateway the gateway of an embodiment can communicate with the iConnect server using a number of communication types and or protocols for example Broadband GPRS and or Public Switched Telephone Network PTSN to name a few. In general broadband communication is the primary means of connection between the gateway and the iConnect server and the GPRS CDMA and or PSTN interfaces acts as back up for fault tolerance in case the user s broadband connection fails for whatever reason but the embodiment is not so limited.

Referring to the LAN portion of the gateway various protocols and physical transceivers can be used to communicate to off the shelf sensors and cameras. The gateway is protocol agnostic and technology agnostic and as such can easily support almost any device networking protocol. The gateway can for example support GE and Honeywell security RF protocols Z Wave serial RS232 and RS485 for direct connection to security panels as well as WiFi 802.11b g for communication to WiFi cameras.

The integrated security system includes couplings or connections among a variety of IP devices or components and the device management module is in charge of the discovery installation and configuration of the IP devices coupled or connected to the system as described above. The integrated security system of an embodiment uses a sandbox network to discover and manage all IP devices coupled or connected as components of the system. The IP devices of an embodiment include wired devices wireless devices cameras interactive touchscreens and security panels to name a few. These devices can be wired via ethernet cable or Wifi devices all of which are secured within the sandbox network as described below. The sandbox network is described in detail below.

The examples described above with reference to are presented only as examples of IP device integration. The integrated security system is not limited to the type number and or combination of IP devices shown and described in these examples and any type number and or combination of IP devices is contemplated within the scope of this disclosure as capable of being integrated with the premise network.

The integrated security system of an embodiment includes a touchscreen also referred to as the iControl touchscreen or integrated security system touchscreen as described above which provides core security keypad functionality content management and presentation and embedded systems design. The networked security touchscreen system of an embodiment enables a consumer or security provider to easily and automatically install configure and manage the security system and touchscreen located at a customer premise. Using this system the customer may access and control the local security system local IP devices such as cameras local sensors and control devices such as lighting controls or pipe freeze sensors as well as the local security system panel and associated security sensors such as door window motion and smoke detectors . The customer premise may be a home business and or other location equipped with a wired or wireless broadband IP connection.

The system of an embodiment includes a touchscreen with a configurable software user interface and or a gateway device e.g. iHub that couples or connects to a premise security panel through a wired or wireless connection and a remote server that provides access to content and information from the premises devices to a user when they are remote from the home. The touchscreen supports broadband and or WAN wireless connectivity. In this embodiment the touchscreen incorporates an IP broadband connection e.g. Wifi radio Ethernet port etc. and or a cellular radio e.g. GPRS GSM CDMA WiMax etc. . The touchscreen described herein can be used as one or more of a security system interface panel and a network user interface UI that provides an interface to interact with a network e.g. LAN WAN internet etc. .

The touchscreen of an embodiment provides an integrated touchscreen and security panel as an all in one device. Once integrated using the touchscreen the touchscreen and a security panel of a premise security system become physically co located in one device and the functionality of both may even be co resident on the same CPU and memory though this is not required .

The touchscreen of an embodiment also provides an integrated IP video and touchscreen UI. As such the touchscreen supports one or more standard video CODECs players e.g. H.264 Flash Video MOV MPEG4 M JPEG etc. . The touchscreen UI then provides a mechanism such as a camera or video widget to play video. In an embodiment the video is streamed live from an IP video camera. In other embodiments the video comprises video clips or photos sent from an IP camera or from a remote location.

The touchscreen of an embodiment provides a configurable user interface system that includes a configuration supporting use as a security touchscreen. In this embodiment the touchscreen utilizes a modular user interface that allows components to be modified easily by a service provider an installer or even the end user. Examples of such a modular approach include using Flash widgets HTML based widgets or other downloadable code modules such that the user interface of the touchscreen can be updated and modified while the application is running. In an embodiment the touchscreen user interface modules can be downloaded over the internet. For example a new security configuration widget can be downloaded from a standard web server and the touchscreen then loads such configuration app into memory and inserts it in place of the old security configuration widget. The touchscreen of an embodiment is configured to provide a self install user interface.

Embodiments of the networked security touchscreen system described herein include a touchscreen device with a user interface that includes a security toolbar providing one or more functions including arm disarm panic medic and alert. The touchscreen therefore includes at least one screen having a separate region of the screen dedicated to a security toolbar. The security toolbar of an embodiment is present in the dedicated region at all times that the screen is active.

The touchscreen of an embodiment includes a home screen having a separate region of the screen allocated to managing home based functions. The home based functions of an embodiment include managing viewing and or controlling IP video cameras. In this embodiment regions of the home screen are allocated in the form of widget icons these widget icons e.g. for cameras thermostats lighting etc provide functionality for managing home systems. So for example a displayed camera icon when selected launches a Camera Widget and the Camera widget in turn provides access to video from one or more cameras as well as providing the user with relevant camera controls take a picture focus the camera etc. 

The touchscreen of an embodiment includes a home screen having a separate region of the screen allocated to managing viewing and or controlling internet based content or applications. For example the Widget Manager UI presents a region of the home screen up to and including the entire home screen where internet widgets icons such as weather sports etc. may be accessed . Each of these icons may be selected to launch their respective content services.

The touchscreen of an embodiment is integrated into a premise network using the gateway as described above. The gateway as described herein functions to enable a separate wireless network or sub network that is coupled connected or integrated with another network e.g. WAN LAN of the host premises etc. . The sub network enabled by the gateway optimizes the installation process for IP devices like the touchscreen that couple or connect to the sub network by segregating these IP devices from other such devices on the network. This segregation of the IP devices of the sub network further enables separate security and privacy policies to be implemented for these IP devices so that where the IP devices are dedicated to specific functions e.g. security the security and privacy policies can be tailored specifically for the specific functions. Furthermore the gateway and the sub network it forms enables the segregation of data traffic resulting in faster and more efficient data flow between components of the host network components of the sub network and between components of the sub network and components of the network.

The touchscreen of an embodiment includes a core functional embedded system that includes an embedded operating system required hardware drivers and an open system interface to name a few. The core functional embedded system can be provided by or as a component of a conventional security system e.g. security system available from GE Security . These core functional units are used with components of the integrated security system as described herein. Note that portions of the touchscreen description below may include reference to a host premise security system e.g. GE security system but these references are included only as an example and do not limit the touchscreen to integration with any particular security system.

As an example regarding the core functional embedded system a reduced memory footprint version of embedded Linux forms the core operating system in an embodiment and provides basic TCP IP stack and memory management functions along with a basic set of low level graphics primitives. A set of device drivers is also provided or included that offer low level hardware and network interfaces. In addition to the standard drivers an interface to the RS 485 bus is included that couples or connects to the security system panel e.g. GE Concord panel . The interface may for example implement the Superbus 2000 protocol which can then be utilized by the more comprehensive transaction level security functions implemented in PanelConnect technology e.g SetAlarmLevel int level int partition char accessCode . Power control drivers are also provided.

More specifically the touchscreen when configured as a home security device includes but is not limited to the following application or software modules RS 485 and or RS 232 bus security protocols to conventional home security system panel e.g. GE Concord panel functional home security classes and interfaces e.g. Panel ARM state Sensor status etc. Application Presentation layer or engine Resident Application Consumer Home Security Application installer home security application core engine and System bootloader Software Updater. The core Application engine and system bootloader can also be used to support other advanced content and applications. This provides a seamless interaction between the premise security application and other optional services such as weather widgets or IP cameras.

An alternative configuration of the touchscreen includes a first Application engine for premise security and a second Application engine for all other applications. The integrated security system application engine supports content standards such as HTML XML Flash etc. and enables a rich consumer experience for all widgets whether security based or not. The touchscreen thus provides service providers the ability to use web content creation and management tools to build and download any widgets regardless of their functionality.

As discussed above although the Security Applications have specific low level functional requirements in order to interface with the premise security system these applications make use of the same fundamental application facilities as any other widget application facilities that include graphical layout interactivity application handoff screen management and network interfaces to name a few.

Content management in the touchscreen provides the ability to leverage conventional web development tools performance optimized for an embedded system service provider control of accessible content content reliability in a consumer device and consistency between widgets and seamless widget operational environment. In an embodiment of the integrated security system widgets are created by web developers and hosted on the integrated security system Content Manager and stored in the Content Store database . In this embodiment the server component caches the widgets and offers them to consumers through the web based integrated security system provisioning system. The servers interact with the advanced touchscreen using HTTPS interfaces controlled by the core engine and dynamically download widgets and updates as needed to be cached on the touchscreen. In other embodiments widgets can be accessed directly over a network such as the Internet without needing to go through the iControl Content Manager

Referring to the touchscreen system is built on a tiered architecture with defined interfaces between the Application Presentation Layer the Application Engine on the top the Core Engine in the middle and the security panel and gateway APIs at the lower level. The architecture is configured to provide maximum flexibility and ease of maintenance.

The application engine of the touchscreen provides the presentation and interactivity capabilities for all applications widgets that run on the touchscreen including both core security function widgets and third party content widgets. is an example screenshot of a networked security touchscreen under an embodiment. This example screenshot includes three interfaces or user interface UI components but is not so limited. A first UI of the touchscreen includes icons by which a user controls or accesses functions and or components of the security system e.g. Main Panic Medic Fire state of the premise alarm system e.g. disarmed armed etc. etc. the first UI which is also referred to herein as a security interface is always presented on the touchscreen. A second UI of the touchscreen includes icons by which a user selects or interacts with services and other network content e.g. clock calendar weather stocks news sports photos maps music etc. that is accessible via the touchscreen. The second UI is also referred to herein as a network interface or content interface. A third UI of the touchscreen includes icons by which a user selects or interacts with additional services or components e.g. intercom control security cameras coupled to the system in particular regions e.g. front door baby etc. available via the touchscreen.

A component of the application engine is the Presentation Engine which includes a set of libraries that implement the standards based widget content e.g. XML HTML JavaScript Flash layout and interactivity. This engine provides the widget with interfaces to dynamically load both graphics and application logic from third parties support high level data description language as well as standard graphic formats. The set of web content based functionality available to a widget developer is extended by specific touchscreen functions implemented as local web services by the Core Engine.

The resident application of the touchscreen is the master service that controls the interaction of all widgets in the system and enforces the business and security rules required by the service provider. For example the resident application determines the priority of widgets thereby enabling a home security widget to override resource requests from a less critical widget e.g. a weather widget . The resident application also monitors widget behavior and responds to client or server requests for cache updates.

The core engine of the touchscreen manages interaction with other components of the integrated security system and provides an interface through which the resident application and authorized widgets can get information about the home security system set alarms install sensors etc. At the lower level the Core Engine s main interactions are through the PanelConnect API which handles all communication with the security panel and the gateway Interface which handles communication with the gateway. In an embodiment both the iHub Interface and PanelConnect API are resident and operating on the touchscreen. In another embodiment the PanelConnect API runs on the gateway or other device that provides security system interaction and is accessed by the touchscreen through a web services interface.

The Core Engine also handles application and service level persistent and cached memory functions as well as the dynamic provisioning of content and widgets including but not limited to flash memory management local widget and content caching widget version management download cache flush new old content versions as well as the caching and synchronization of user preferences. As a portion of these services the Core engine incorporates the bootloader functionality that is responsible for maintaining a consistent software image on the touchscreen and acts as the client agent for all software updates. The bootloader is configured to ensure full update redundancy so that unsuccessful downloads cannot corrupt the integrated security system.

Video management is provided as a set of web services by the Core Engine. Video management includes the retrieval and playback of local video feeds as well as remote control and management of cameras all through iControl CameraConnect technology .

Both the high level application layer and the mid level core engine of the touchscreen can make calls to the network. Any call to the network made by the application layer is automatically handed off to a local caching proxy which determines whether the request should be handled locally. Many of the requests from the application layer are web services API requests although such requests could be satisfied by the iControl servers they are handled directly by the touchscreen and the gateway. Requests that get through the caching proxy are checked against a white list of acceptable sites and if they match are sent off through the network interface to the gateway. Included in the Network Subsystem is a set of network services including HTTP HTTPS and server level authentication functions to manage the secure client server interface. Storage and management of certificates is incorporated as a part of the network services layer.

Server components of the integrated security system servers support interactive content services on the touchscreen. These server components include but are not limited to the content manager registry manager network manager and global registry each of which is described herein.

The Content Manager oversees aspects of handling widget data and raw content on the touchscreen. Once created and validated by the service provider widgets are ingested to the Content Manager and then become available as downloadable services through the integrated security system Content Management APIs. The Content manager maintains versions and timestamp information and connects to the raw data contained in the backend Content Store database. When a widget is updated or new content becomes available all clients registering interest in a widget are systematically updated as needed a process that can be configured at an account locale or system wide level .

The Registry Manager handles user data and provisioning accounts including information about widgets the user has decided to install and the user preferences for these widgets.

The Network Manager handles getting and setting state for all devices on the integrated security system network e.g. sensors panels cameras etc. . The Network manager synchronizes with the gateway the advanced touchscreen and the subscriber database.

The Global Registry is a primary starting point server for all client services and is a logical referral service that abstracts specific server locations addresses from clients touchscreen gateway desktop widgets etc. . This approach enables easy scaling migration of server farms.

The touchscreen of an embodiment operates wirelessly with a premise security system. The touchscreen of an embodiment incorporates an RF transceiver component that either communicates directly with the sensors and or security panel over the panel s proprietary RF frequency or the touchscreen communicates wirelessly to the gateway over 802.11 Ethernet or other IP based communications channel as described in detail herein. In the latter case the gateway implements the PanelConnect interface and communicates directly to the security panel and or sensors over wireless or wired networks as described in detail above.

The touchscreen of an embodiment is configured to operate with multiple security systems through the use of an abstracted security system interface. In this embodiment the PanelConnect API can be configured to support a plurality of proprietary security system interfaces either simultaneously or individually as described herein. In one embodiment of this approach the touchscreen incorporates multiple physical interfaces to security panels e.g. GE Security RS 485 Honeywell RF etc. in addition to the PanelConnect API implemented to support multiple security interfaces. The change needed to support this in PanelConnect is a configuration parameter specifying the panel type connection that is being utilized.

So for example the setARMState function is called with an additional parameter e.g. Armstate setARMState type ARM STAY ARM AWAY DISARM Parameters ExitDelay 30 Lights OFF panelType GE Concord4 RS485 . The panelType parameter is used by the setARMState function and in practice by all of the PanelConnect functions to select an algorithm appropriate to the specific panel out of a plurality of algorithms.

The touchscreen of an embodiment is self installable. Consequently the touchscreen provides a wizard approach similar to that used in traditional computer installations e.g. InstallShield . The wizard can be resident on the touchscreen accessible through a web interface or both. In one embodiment of a touchscreen self installation process the service provider can associate devices sensors touchscreens security panels lighting controls etc. remotely using a web based administrator interface.

The touchscreen of an embodiment includes a battery backup system for a security touchscreen. The touchscreen incorporates a standard Li ion or other battery and charging circuitry to allow continued operation in the event of a power outage. In an embodiment the battery is physically located and connected within the touchscreen enclosure. In another embodiment the battery is located as a part of the power transformer or in between the power transformer and the touchscreen.

The example configurations of the integrated security system described above with reference to include a gateway that is a separate device and the touchscreen couples to the gateway. However in an alternative embodiment the gateway device and its functionality can be incorporated into the touchscreen so that the device management module which is now a component of or included in the touchscreen is in charge of the discovery installation and configuration of the IP devices coupled or connected to the system as described above. The integrated security system with the integrated touchscreen gateway uses the same sandbox network to discover and manage all IP devices coupled or connected as components of the system.

The touchscreen of this alternative embodiment integrates the components of the gateway with the components of the touchscreen as described herein. More specifically the touchscreen of this alternative embodiment includes software or applications described above with reference to . In this alternative embodiment the touchscreen includes the gateway application layer as the main program that orchestrates the operations performed by the gateway. A Security Engine of the touchscreen provides robust protection against intentional and unintentional intrusion into the integrated security system network from the outside world both from inside the premises as well as from the WAN . The Security Engine of an embodiment comprises one or more sub modules or components that perform functions including but not limited to the following 

As standards evolve and new encryption and authentication methods are proven to be useful and older mechanisms proven to be breakable the security manager can be upgraded over the air to provide new and better security for communications between the iConnect server and the gateway application and locally at the premises to remove any risk of eavesdropping on camera communications.

A Remote Firmware Download module of the touchscreen allows for seamless and secure updates to the gateway firmware through the iControl Maintenance Application on the server providing a transparent hassle free mechanism for the service provider to deploy new features and bug fixes to the installed user base. The firmware download mechanism is tolerant of connection loss power interruption and user interventions both intentional and unintentional . Such robustness reduces down time and customer support issues. Touchscreen firmware can be remotely download either for one touchscreen at a time a group of touchscreen or in batches.

The Automations engine of the touchscreen manages the user defined rules of interaction between the different devices e.g. when door opens turn on the light . Though the automation rules are programmed and reside at the portal server level they are cached at the gateway level in order to provide short latency between device triggers and actions.

DeviceConnect of the touchscreen touchscreen includes definitions of all supported devices e.g. cameras security panels sensors etc. using a standardized plug in architecture. The DeviceConnect module offers an interface that can be used to quickly add support for any new device as well as enabling interoperability between devices that use different technologies protocols. For common device types pre defined sub modules have been defined making supporting new devices of these types even easier. SensorConnect is provided for adding new sensors CameraConnect for adding IP cameras and PanelConnect for adding home security panels.

The Schedules engine of the touchscreen is responsible for executing the user defined schedules e.g. take a picture every five minutes every day at 8 am set temperature to 65 degrees Fahrenheit etc. . Though the schedules are programmed and reside at the iConnect server level they are sent to the scheduler within the gateway application of the touchscreen. The Schedules Engine then interfaces with SensorConnect to ensure that scheduled events occur at precisely the desired time.

The Device Management module of the touchscreen is in charge of all discovery installation and configuration of both wired and wireless IP devices e.g. cameras etc. coupled or connected to the system. Networked IP devices such as those used in the integrated security system require user configuration of many IP and security parameters and the device management module of an embodiment handles the details of this configuration. The device management module also manages the video routing module described below.

The video routing engine of the touchscreen is responsible for delivering seamless video streams to the user with zero configuration. Through a multi step staged approach the video routing engine uses a combination of UPnP port forwarding relay server routing and STUN TURN peer to peer routing.

The gateway of an embodiment whether a stand along component or integrated with a touchscreen enables couplings or connections and thus the flow or integration of information between various components of the host premises and various types and or combinations of IP devices where the components of the host premises include a network e.g. LAN and or a security system or subsystem to name a few. Consequently the gateway controls the association between and the flow of information or data between the components of the host premises. For example the gateway of an embodiment forms a sub network coupled to another network e.g. WAN LAN etc. with the sub network including IP devices. The gateway further enables the association of the IP devices of the sub network with appropriate systems on the premises e.g. security system etc. . Therefore for example the gateway can form a sub network of IP devices configured for security functions and associate the sub network only with the premises security system thereby segregating the IP devices dedicated to security from other IP devices that may be coupled to another network on the premises.

In an example embodiment is a flow diagram for integration or installation of an IP device into a private network environment under an embodiment. The IP device includes any IP capable device which for example includes the touchscreen of an embodiment. The variables of an embodiment set at time of installation include but are not limited to one or more of a private SSID Password a gateway identifier a security panel identifier a user account TS and a Central Monitoring Station account identification.

An embodiment of the IP device discovery and management begins with a user or installer activating the gateway and initiating the install mode of the system. This places the gateway in an install mode. Once in install mode the gateway shifts to a default Install Wifi configuration. This setting will match the default setting for other integrated security system enabled devices that have been pre configured to work with the integrated security system. The gateway will then begin to provide DHCP addresses for these IP devices. Once the devices have acquired a new DHCP address from the gateway those devices are available for configuration into a new secured Wifi network setting.

The user or installer of the system selects all devices that have been identified as available for inclusion into the integrated security system. The user may select these devices by their unique IDs via a web page Touchscreen or other client interface. The gateway provides data as appropriate to the devices. Once selected the devices are configured with appropriate secured Wifi settings including SSID and WPA WPA 2 keys that are used once the gateway switches back to the secured sandbox configuration from the Install settings. Other settings are also configured as appropriate for that type of device. Once all devices have been configured the user is notified and the user can exit install mode. At this point all devices will have been registered with the integrated security system servers.

The installer switches the gateway to an operational mode and the gateway instructs or directs all newly configured devices to switch to the secured Wifi sandbox settings. The gateway then switches to the secured Wifi settings. Once the devices identify that the gateway is active on the secured network they request new DHCP addresses from the gateway which in response provides the new addresses. The devices with the new addresses are then operational on the secured network.

In order to ensure the highest level of security on the secured network the gateway can create or generate a dynamic network security configuration based on the unique ID and private key in the gateway coupled with a randomizing factor that can be based on online time or other inputs. This guarantees the uniqueness of the gateway secured network configuration.

To enable the highest level of performance the gateway analyzes the RF spectrum of the 802.11x network and determines which frequency band channel it should select to run.

An alternative embodiment of the camera IP device management process leverages the local ethernet connection of the sandbox network on the gateway. This alternative process is similar to the Wifi discovery embodiment described above except the user connects the targeted device to the ethernet port of the sandbox network to begin the process. This alternative embodiment accommodates devices that have not been pre configured with the default Install configuration for the integrated security system.

This alternative embodiment of the IP device discovery and management begins with the user installer placing the system into install mode. The user is instructed to attach an IP device to be installed to the sandbox Ethernet port of the gateway. The IP device requests a DHCP address from the gateway which in response to the request provides the address. The user is presented the device and is asked if he she wants to install the device. If yes the system configures the device with the secured Wifi settings and other device specific settings e.g. camera settings for video length image quality etc. . The user is next instructed to disconnect the device from the ethernet port. The device is now available for use on the secured sandbox network.

Referring to the touchscreen incorporates an application that is implemented as computer code resident on the touchscreen operating system or as a web based application running in a browser or as another type of scripted application e.g. Flash Java Visual Basic etc. . The touchscreen core application represents this application providing user interface and logic for the end user to manage their security system or to gain access to networked information or content Widgets . The touchscreen core application in turn accesses a library or libraries of functions to control the local hardware e.g. screen display sound LEDs memory etc. as well as specialized librarie s to couple or connect to the security system.

In an embodiment of this security system connection the touchscreen communicates to the gateway and has no direct communication with the security panel. In this embodiment the touchscreen core application accesses the remote service APIs which provide security system functionality e.g. ARM DISARM panel sensor state get set panel configuration parameters initiate or get alarm events etc. . In an embodiment the remote service APIs implement one or more of the following functions but the embodiment is not so limited Armstate setARMState type ARM STAY ARM AWAY DISARM Parameters ExitDelay 30 Lights OFF sensorState getSensors type ALL SensorName SensorNameList result setSensorState SensorName parameters Option1 Options2 . . . Option n interruptHandler SensorEvent and interruptHandler alarmEvent .

Functions of the remote service APIs of an embodiment use a remote PanelConnect API which which resides in memory on the gateway . The touchscreen communicates with the gateway through a suitable network interface such as an Ethernet or 802.11 RF connection for example. The remote PanelConnect API provides the underlying Security System Interfaces used to communicate with and control one or more types of security panel via wired link and or RF link . The PanelConnect API provides responses and input to the remote services APIs and in turn translates function calls and data to and from the specific protocols and functions supported by a specific implementation of a Security Panel e.g. a GE Security Simon XT or Honeywell Vista P . In an embodiment the PanelConnect API uses a 345 MHz RF transceiver or receiver hardware firmware module to communicate wirelessly to the security panel and directly to a set of 345 MHz RF enabled sensors and devices but the embodiment is not so limited.

The gateway of an alternative embodiment communicates over a wired physical coupling or connection to the security panel using the panel s specific wired hardware bus interface and the panel s bus level protocol.

In an alternative embodiment the Touchscreen implements the same PanelConnect API locally on the Touchscreen communicating directly with the Security Panel 2 and or Sensors 2 over the proprietary RF link or over a wired link for that system. In this embodiment the Touchscreen instead of the gateway incorporates the 345 MHz RF transceiver to communicate directly with Security Panel 2 or Sensors 2 over the RF link 2. In the case of a wired link the Touchscreen incorporates the real time hardware e.g. a PIC chip and RS232 variant serial link to physically connect to and satisfy the specific bus level timing requirements of the SecurityPanel2.

In yet another alternative embodiment either the gateway or the Touchscreen implements the remote service APIs. This embodiment includes a Cricket device Cricket which comprises but is not limited to the following components a processor suitable for handling 802.11 protocols and processing as well as the bus timing requirements of SecurityPanel1 an 802.11 WiFi client IP interface chip and a serial bus interface chip that implements variants of RS232 or RS485 depending on the specific Security Panel.

The Cricket also implements the full PanelConnect APIs such that it can perform the same functions as the case where the gateway implements the PanelConnect APIs. In this embodiment the touchscreen core application calls functions in the remote service APIs such as setArmState . These functions in turn couple or connect to the remote Cricket through a standard IP connection Cricket IP Link e.g. Ethernet Homeplug the gateway s proprietary Wifi network etc. . The Cricket in turn implements the PanelConnect API which responds to the request from the touchscreen core application and performs the appropriate function using the proprietary panel interface. This interface uses either the wireless or wired proprietary protocol for the specific security panel and or sensors.

An example use case that illustrates the use of the touchscreen embodiments described above is a panic alarm. is a data flow diagram for a panic alarm under an embodiment. In order to activate a panic alarm on the touchscreen the user presses one of the panic alarm buttons and confirms the alarm with a second button press Step 1 . When the alarm is activated in Step 2 the touchscreen sends the alarm signal to both the security panel and the gateway using the PanelConnect or remote Svc API interface described above .

In Step 3 the security panel alerts other keypads and touchscreens once again through the PanelConnect interface of the alarm condition and flashes lights sounds sirens as appropriate. The gateway or security panel calls the CMS on the hard wired phone line. Simultaneously the gateway sends a signal to the iConnect Server system over the broadband connection and if so configured uses GPRS to call a cell phone relay station with the alarm data. In Step 4 the iConnect Server system routes the information formatted using an industry standard alarm format such as ContactID or SIA to a suitable broadband receiver in the CMS for example the DSC Surguard broadband alarm receiver or directly to the CMS automation software server . At the same time in Step 5 the server system will also call a phone send an SMS message or send an email to any designated receiver.

The second example use case involving the touchscreen is a device installation example. is a data flow diagram for device installation under an embodiment. To make installation easier the user can receive feedback from the touchscreen about what devices have been programmed in to the system and the system automatically couples or connects to the CMS to configure the sensors on the back end.

As a data flow in Step 1 the installer initiates entry into sensor learning mode by activating the installation UI on the touchscreen. When the installer triggers or otherwise activates a sensor in Step 2 the gateway picks up the wireless communication from the sensor and pushes information about the sensor to the touchscreen Step 3 . At this point the installer can program the specific name of the sensor and its zones. This process is repeated for all of the sensors in the system. Once all sensors have been learned in this way the information is transmitted via internet or cellular IP networks to the iConnect server. The sensor information is associated with a network e.g. a location but has not yet been associated with a specific user or account. After this step the installer then creates a user account and the previously created network is then associated with that account in the iConnect user database. This embodiment allows systems devices touchscreens panels and the like to be pre associated packaged and or installed without reference to a user or subscriber account.

To ensure that the security system is operating properly it is next put into test mode. As the installer opens and closes the sensor the touchscreen places a check next to the name of the sensor. At the same time in Step 4 the gateway pushes the open close information to the iConnect servers which alert the CMS to verify that a signal has been received for the sensor on the back end. In Step 5 the CMS acknowledges that the sensor has been installed correctly and is operational and that acknowledgement is pushed back through the system. When the system installation is finished the iConnect servers send a notification of the installation along with sensor set up information and electronic verification of the test process for all sensors to the service provider.

Yet another example use case involving the touchscreen is a camera event. is a data flow diagram for a camera event under an embodiment. Cameras can be integrated with alerts that are generated by sensor events. For example a consumer who wishes to see who is at her front door would set up the front door sensor to trigger an iControl Notification to the touchscreen signifying a camera alert. When the sensor is activated a pop up appears on the touchscreen telling the user that the front door sensor has been activated and asking the user if he or she would like to view the video.

The flow diagram for the camera event shows the flow of data from the sensor to the security panel and the gateway during a camera event. The gateway receives information regarding automation rules between camera and sensor event from the iConnect servers as a part of the periodic state updates that occur between gateway client and server.

In Step 1 a sensor or multiple sensors are triggered. In Step 2 the gateway and or Security Panel receives notification that a sensor state has changed through a network connection wired or wireless with the sensor and if a rule exists for that device or set of devices the touchscreen is then alerted via the PanelConnect interface running either locally on the touchscreen or remotely on the gateway. In Step 3 the touchscreen puts up the alert and if requested opens a video stream from the camera. In the event that the touchscreen is in a quiescent mode instead of a dialog popup the IP video is immediately displayed and an audible alert may sound as an option in the notification.

Step 3 of the data flow also shows an alternate route over which the gateway if so configured can send the sensor information the iControl servers Step 4 which in turn forward the information in the form of an SMS alert or direct IP notification to a cell phone Step 5 . The cell phone user could then set up a video stream from the camera. is a flow diagram of a method of integrating an external control and management application system with an existing security system under an embodiment. Operations begin when the system is powered on involving at a minimum the power on of the gateway device and optionally the power on of the connection between the gateway device and the remote servers. The gateway device initiates a software and RF sequence to locate the extant security system. The gateway and installer initiate and complete a sequence to learn the gateway into the security system as a valid and authorized control device. The gateway initiates another software and RF sequence of instructions to discover and learn the existence and capabilities of existing RF devices within the extant security system and store this information in the system. These operations under the system of an embodiment are described in further detail below.

Unlike conventional systems that extend an existing security system the system of an embodiment operates utilizing the proprietary wireless protocols of the security system manufacturer. In one illustrative embodiment the gateway is an embedded computer with an IP LAN and WAN connection and a plurality of RF transceivers and software protocol modules capable of communicating with a plurality of security systems each with a potentially different RF and software protocol interface. After the gateway has completed the discovery and learning of sensors and has been integrated as a virtual control device in the extant security system the system becomes operational. Thus the security system and associated sensors are presented as accessible devices to a potential plurality of user interface subsystems.

The system of an embodiment integrates the functionality of the extant security system with other non security devices including but not limited to IP cameras touchscreens lighting controls door locking mechanisms which may be controlled via RF wired or powerline based networking mechanisms supported by the gateway or servers.

The system of an embodiment provides a user interface subsystem enabling a user to monitor manage and control the system and associated sensors and security systems. In an embodiment of the system a user interface subsystem is an HTML XML Javascript Java AJAX Flash presentation of a monitoring and control application enabling users to view the state of all sensors and controllers in the extant security system from a web browser or equivalent operating on a computer PDA mobile phone or other consumer device.

In another illustrative embodiment of the system described herein a user interface subsystem is an HTML XML Javascript Java AJAX presentation of a monitoring and control application enabling users to combine the monitoring and control of the extant security system and sensors with the monitoring and control of non security devices including but not limited to IP cameras touchscreens lighting controls door locking mechanisms.

In another illustrative embodiment of the system described herein a user interface subsystem is a mobile phone application enabling users to monitor and control the extant security system as well as other non security devices.

In another illustrative embodiment of the system described herein a user interface subsystem is an application running on a keypad or touchscreen device enabling users to monitor and control the extant security system as well as other non security devices.

In another illustrative embodiment of the system described herein a user interface subsystem is an application operating on a TV or set top box connected to a TV enabling users to monitor and control the extant security system as well as other non security devices.

Moreover other elements of the system of an embodiment may be conventional well known elements that need not be explained in detail herein. For example security system could be any type home or business security system such devices including but not limited to a standalone RF home security system or a non RF capable wired home security system with an add on RF interface module. In the integrated security system of this example security system includes an RF capable wireless security panel WSP that acts as the master controller for security system . Well known examples of such a WSP include the GE Security Concord Networx and Simon panels the Honeywell Vista and Lynx panels and similar panesl from DSC and Napco to name a few. A wireless module includes the RF hardware and protocol software necessary to enable communication with and control of a plurality of wireless devices . WSP may also manage wired devices physically connected to WSP with an RS232 or RS485 or Ethernet connection or similar such wired interface.

In an implementation consistent with the systems and methods described herein Gateway provides the interface between security system and LAN and or WAN for purposes of remote control monitoring and management. Gateway communicates with an external web server database and application server over network which may comprise WAN LAN or a combination thereof . In this example system application logic remote user interface functionality as well as user state and account are managed by the combination of these remote servers. Gateway includes server connection manager a software interface module responsible for all server communication over network . Event manager implements the main event loop for Gateway processing events received from device manager communicating with non security system devices including but not limited to IP cameras wireless thermostats or remote door locks . Event manager further processes events and control messages from and to security system by utilizing WSP manager .

WSP manager and device manager both rely upon wireless protocol manager which receives and stores the proprietary or standards based protocols required to support security system as well as any other devices interfacing with gateway . WSP manager further utilizes the comprehensive protocols and interface algorithms for a plurality of security systems stored in the WSP DB client database associated with wireless protocol manager . These various components implement the software logic and protocols necessary to communicate with and manager devices and security systems . Wireless Transceiver hardware modules are then used to implement the physical RF communications link to such devices and security systems . An illustrative wireless transceiver is the GE Security Dialog circuit board implementing a 319.5 MHz two way RF transceiver module. In this example RF Link represents the 319.5 MHz RF communication link enabling gateway to monitor and control WSP and associated wireless and wired devices and respectively.

In one embodiment server connection manager requests and receives a set of wireless protocols for a specific security system an illustrative example being that of the GE Security Concord panel and sensors and stores them in the WSP DB portion of the wireless protocol manager . WSP manager then utilizes such protocols from wireless protocol manager to initiate the sequence of processes detailed in and for learning gateway into security system as an authorized control device. Once learned in as described with reference to and above event manager processes all events and messages detected by the combination of WSP manager and the GE Security wireless transceiver module .

In another embodiment gateway incorporates a plurality of wireless transceivers and associated protocols managed by wireless protocol manager . In this embodiment events and control of multiple heterogeneous devices may be coordinated with WSP wireless devices and wired devices . For example a wireless sensor from one manufacturer may be utilized to control a device using a different protocol from a different manufacturer.

In another embodiment gateway incorporates a wired interface to security system and incorporates a plurality of wireless transceivers and associated protocols managed by wireless protocol manager . In this embodiment events and control of multiple heterogeneous devices may be coordinated with WSP wireless devices and wired devices .

Of course while an illustrative embodiment of an architecture of the system of an embodiment is described in detail herein with respect to one of skill in the art will understand that modifications to this architecture may be made without departing from the scope of the description presented herein. For example the functionality described herein may be allocated differently between client and server or amongst different server or processor based components. Likewise the entire functionality of the gateway described herein could be integrated completely within an existing security system . In such an embodiment the architecture could be directly integrated with a security system in a manner consistent with the currently described embodiments.

Gateway utilizes the appropriate protocols to mimic the first identified device . In this operation gateway identifies itself using the unique or pseudo unique identifier of the first found device and sends an appropriate change of state message over RF Link . In the event that WSP responds to this change of state message the device is then added to the system in database . Gateway associates any other information such as zone name or token based identifier with this device in database enabling gateway user interface modules or any application to retrieve this associated information.

In the event that WSP does not respond to the change of state message the device is not added to the system in database and this device is identified as not being a part of security system with a flag and is either ignored or added as an independent device at the discretion of the system provisioning rules. Operations hereunder repeat operations for all devices if applicable. Once all devices have been tested in this way the system begins operation .

In another embodiment gateway utilizes a wired connection to WSP but also incorporates a wireless transceiver to communicate directly with devices . In this embodiment operations under above are removed and operations under above are modified so the system of this embodiment utilizes wireline protocols to add itself as an authorized control device in security system .

A description of an example embodiment follows in which the Gateway element is the iHub available from iControl Networks Palo Alto Calif. and described in detail herein. In this example the gateway is automatically installed with a security system.

The automatic security system installation begins with the assignment of an authorization key to components of the security system e.g. gateway kit including the gateway etc. . The assignment of an authorization key is done in lieu of creating a user account. An installer later places the gateway in a user s premises along with the premises security system. The installer uses a computer to navigate to a web portal e.g. integrated security system web interface logs in to the portal and enters the authorization key of the installed gateway into the web portal for authentication. Once authenticated the gateway automatically discovers devices at the premises e.g. sensors cameras light controls etc. and adds the discovered devices to the system or network . The installer assigns names to the devices and tests operation of the devices back to the server e.g. did the door open did the camera take a picture etc. . The security device information is optionally pushed or otherwise propagated to a security panel and or to the server network database. The installer finishes the installation and instructs the end user on how to create an account username and password. At this time the user enters the authorization key which validates the account creation uses a valid authorization key to associate the network with the user s account . New devices may subsequently be added to the security network in a variety of ways e.g. user first enters a unique ID for each device sensor and names it in the server after which the gateway can automatically discover and configure the device .

A description of another example embodiment follows in which the security system element is a Dialog system and the WSP element is a SimonXT available from General Electric Security and the Gateway element is the iHub available from iControl Networks Palo Alto Calif. and described in detail herein. Descriptions of the install process for the SimonXT and iHub are also provided below.

GE Security s Dialog network is one of the most widely deployed and tested wireless security systems in the world. The physical RF network is based on a 319.5 MHz unlicensed spectrum with a bandwidth supporting up to 19 Kbps communications. Typical use of this bandwidth even in conjunction with the integrated security system is far less than that. Devices on this network can support either one way communication either a transmitter or a receiver or two way communication a transceiver . Certain GE Simon Simon XT and Concord security control panels incorporate a two way transceiver as a standard component. The gateway also incorporates the same two way transceiver card. The physical link layer of the network is managed by the transceiver module hardware and firmware while the coded payload bitstreams are made available to the application layer for processing.

Sensors in the Dialog network typically use a 60 bit protocol for communicating with the security panel transceiver while security system keypads and the gateway use the encrypted 80 bit protocol. The Dialog network is configured for reliability as well as low power usage. Many devices are supervised i.e. they are regularly monitored by the system master typically a GE security panel while still maintaining excellent power usage characteristics. A typical door window sensor has a battery life in excess of 5 7 years.

The gateway has two modes of operation in the Dialog network a first mode of operation is when the gateway is configured or operates as a slave to the GE security panel a second mode of operation is when the gateway is configured or operates as a master to the system in the event a security panel is not present. In both configurations the gateway has the ability to listen to network traffic enabling the gateway to continually keep track of the status of all devices in the system. Similarly in both situations the gateway can address and control devices that support setting adjustments such as the GE wireless thermostat .

In the configuration in which the gateway acts as a slave to the security panel the gateway is learned into the system as a GE wireless keypad. In this mode of operation the gateway emulates a security system keypad when managing the security panel and can query the security panel for status and listen to security panel events such as alarm events .

The gateway incorporates an RF Transceiver manufactured by GE Security but is not so limited. This transceiver implements the Dialog protocols and handles all network message transmissions receptions and timing. As such the physical link and protocol layers of the communications between the gateway and any GE device in the Dialog network are totally compliant with GE Security specifications.

At the application level the gateway emulates the behavior of a GE wireless keypad utilizing the GE Security 80 bit encrypted protocol and only supported protocols and network traffic are generated by the gateway. Extensions to the Dialog RF protocol of an embodiment enable full control and configuration of the panel and iControl can both automate installation and sensor enrollment as well as direct configuration downloads for the panel under these protocol extensions.

As described above the gateway participates in the GE Security network at the customer premises. Because the gateway has intelligence and a two way transceiver it can hear all of the traffic on that network. The gateway makes use of the periodic sensor updates state changes and supervisory signals of the network to maintain a current state of the premises. This data is relayed to the integrated security system server e.g. element and stored in the event repository for use by other server components. This usage of the GE Security RF network is completely non invasive there is no new data traffic created to support this activity.

The gateway can directly or indirectly through the Simon XT panel control two way devices on the network. For example the gateway can direct a GE Security Thermostat to change its setting to Cool from Off as well as request an update on the current temperature of the room. The gateway performs these functions using the existing GE Dialog protocols with little to no impact on the network a gateway device control or data request takes only a few dozen bytes of data in a network that can support 19 Kbps.

By enrolling with the Simon XT as a wireless keypad as described herein the gateway includes data or information of all alarm events as well as state changes relevant to the security panel. This information is transferred to the gateway as encrypted packets in the same way that the information is transferred to all other wireless keypads on the network.

Because of its status as an authorized keypad the gateway can also initiate the same panel commands that a keypad can initiate. For example the gateway can arm or disarm the panel using the standard Dialog protocol for this activity. Other than the monitoring of standard alarm events like other network keypads the only incremental data traffic on the network as a result of the gateway is the infrequent remote arm disarm events that the gateway initiates or infrequent queries on the state of the panel.

The gateway is enrolled into the Simon XT panel as a slave device which in an embodiment is a wireless keypad. This enables the gateway for all necessary functionality for operating the Simon XT system remotely as well as combining the actions and information of non security devices such as lighting or door locks with GE Security devices. The only resource taken up by the gateway in this scenario is one wireless zone sensor ID .

The gateway of an embodiment supports three forms of sensor and panel enrollment installation into the integrated security system but is not limited to this number of enrollment installation options. The enrollment installation options of an embodiment include installer installation kitting and panel each of which is described below.

Under the installer option the installer enters the sensor IDs at time of installation into the integrated security system web portal or iScreen. This technique is supported in all configurations and installations.

Kits can be pre provisioned using integrated security system provisioning applications when using the kitting option. At kitting time multiple sensors are automatically associated with an account and at install time there is no additional work required.

In the case where a panel is installed with sensors already enrolled i.e. using the GE Simon XT enrollment process the gateway has the capability to automatically extract the sensor information from the system and incorporate it into the user account on the integrated security system server.

The gateway and integrated security system of an embodiment uses an auto learn process for sensor and panel enrollment in an embodiment. The deployment approach of an embodiment can use additional interfaces that GE Security is adding to the Simon XT panel. With these interfaces the gateway has the capability to remotely enroll sensors in the panel automatically. The interfaces include but are not limited to the following EnrollDevice ID type name zone group SetDeviceParameters ID type Name zone group GetDeviceParameters zone and RemoveDevice zone .

The integrated security system incorporates these new interfaces into the system providing the following install process. The install process can include integrated security system logistics to handle kitting and pre provisioning. Pre kitting and logistics can include a pre provisioning kitting tool provided by integrated security system that enables a security system vendor or provider provider to offer pre packaged initial kits . This is not required but is recommended for simplifying the install process. This example assumes a Basic kit is preassembled and includes one 1 Simon XT three 3 Door window sensors one 1 motion sensor one 1 gateway one 1 keyfob two 2 cameras and ethernet cables. The kit also includes a sticker page with all Zones 1 24 and Names full name list .

The provider uses the integrated security system kitting tool to assemble Basic kit packages. The contents of different types of starter kits may be defined by the provider. At the distribution warehouse a worker uses a bar code scanner to scan each sensor and the gateway as it is packed into the box. An ID label is created that is attached to the box. The scanning process automatically associates all the devices with one kit and the new ID label is the unique identifier of the kit. These boxes are then sent to the provider for distribution to installer warehouses. Individual sensors cameras etc. are also sent to the provider installer warehouse. Each is labeled with its own barcode ID.

An installation and enrollment procedure of a security system including a gateway is described below as one example of the installation process.

An installation and enrollment procedure of a security system including a gateway is described below as an alternative example of the installation process. This installation process is for use for enrolling sensors into the SimonXT and integrated security system and is compatible with all existing GE Simon panels.

The integrated security system supports all pre kitting functionality described in the installation process above. However for the purpose of the following example no kitting is used.

The panel of an embodiment can be programmed remotely. The CMS pushes new programming to SimonXT over a telephone or GPRS link. Optionally iControl and GE provide a broadband link or coupling to the gateway and then a link from the gateway to the Simon XT over GE RF.

As described above computer networks suitable for use with the embodiments described herein include local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN Internet or other connection services and network variations such as the world wide web the public internet a private internet a private computer network a public network a mobile network a cellular network a value added network and the like. Computing devices coupled or connected to the network may be any microprocessor controlled device that permits access to the network including terminal devices such as personal computers workstations servers mini computers main frame computers laptop computers mobile computers palm top computers hand held computers mobile phones TV set top boxes or combinations thereof. The computer network may include one of more LANs WANs Internets and computers. The computers may serve as servers clients or a combination thereof.

The integrated security system can be a component of a single system multiple systems and or geographically separate systems. The integrated security system can also be a subcomponent or subsystem of a single system multiple systems and or geographically separate systems. The integrated security system can be coupled to one or more other components not shown of a host system or a system coupled to the host system.

One or more components of the integrated security system and or a corresponding system or application to which the integrated security system is coupled or connected includes and or runs under and or in association with a processing system. The processing system includes any collection of processor based devices or computing devices operating together or components of processing systems or devices as is known in the art. For example the processing system can include one or more of a portable computer portable communication device operating in a communication network and or a network server. The portable computer can be any of a number and or combination of devices selected from among personal computers personal digital assistants portable computing devices and portable communication devices but is not so limited. The processing system can include components within a larger computer system.

The processing system of an embodiment includes at least one processor and at least one memory device or subsystem. The processing system can also include or be coupled to at least one database. The term processor as generally used herein refers to any logic processing unit such as one or more central processing units CPUs digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASIC etc. The processor and memory can be monolithically integrated onto a single chip distributed among a number of chips or components and or provided by some combination of algorithms. The methods described herein can be implemented in one or more of software algorithm s programs firmware hardware components circuitry in any combination.

The components of any system that includes the integrated security system can be located together or in separate locations. Communication paths couple the components and include any medium for communicating or transferring files among the components. The communication paths include wireless connections wired connections and hybrid wireless wired connections. The communication paths also include couplings or connections to networks including local area networks LANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs proprietary networks interoffice or backend networks and the Internet. Furthermore the communication paths include removable fixed mediums like floppy disks hard disk drives and CD ROM disks as well as flash RAM Universal Serial Bus USB connections RS 232 connections telephone lines buses and electronic mail messages.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a device comprising a touchscreen at a first location wherein the touchscreen includes a processor coupled to a local area network LAN and a security system at the first location and a plurality of interfaces coupled to the processor and presented to a user via the touchscreen wherein the plurality of interfaces include a security interface and a network interface wherein the security interface provides the user with control of functions of the security system and access to data collected by the security system wherein the network interface allows the user to transfer content to and from a wide area network WAN coupled to the LAN and a remote server coupled to the touchscreen the remote server managing at least one of the touchscreen and the security system.

The remote server of an embodiment provides user portals that enable content and information displayed on the touchscreen to be displayed on other devices.

The other devices of an embodiment include at least one of HTML browsers WEB WAP phones and desktop widgets.

The touchscreen of an embodiment includes a wireless transceiver for communicating with security system components of the security system.

The touchscreen of an embodiment plays live video from a camera wherein the camera is an Internet Protocol IP camera.

Device information and device data of an embodiment are transmitted to from the devices to the remote server.

The device information of an embodiment includes at least one of device name and device type wherein the device data includes at least one of device state and battery state.

Device information and device data of an embodiment are associated with a user account by the remote server.

The devices of an embodiment are automatically detected by the touchscreen and added to a user account on the remote server through the touchscreen.

The touchscreen of an embodiment integrates the content with the access and control of the security system.

The network interface of an embodiment allows the user to transfer at least one of content and internet widgets to and from the LAN.

The network interface of an embodiment allows the user to control functions of peripheral devices of the first location coupled to the LAN.

The network interface of an embodiment provides the user with communication and control of a plurality of network devices coupled to the LAN.

The network interface of an embodiment provides the user with communication and control of a plurality of security system components wherein the security system comprises the plurality of security system components.

The WAN of an embodiment is the internet and the network interface of an embodiment is a web browser.

The touchscreen of an embodiment integrates at least one of a security system control panel and an internet browser.

The device of an embodiment comprises an application engine coupled to the processor wherein the application engine controls a plurality of applications executing under the processor.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment includes a security application and a content application wherein the security application provides the security interface and the content application provides the network interface.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment provides interactivity with a plurality of devices via the plurality of interfaces.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment includes a resident application that manages interactions between the plurality of applications.

The resident application of an embodiment determines a priority of each application of the plurality of applications and manages the plurality of applications according to the priority.

The resident application of an embodiment allows a first application having a first priority to override a second application having a second priority when the first priority is higher than the second priority.

The device of an embodiment comprises a first application engine coupled to the processor wherein the first application engine executes a security application that provides the security interface. The device of an embodiment comprises a second application engine coupled to the processor wherein the second application engine executes a content application that provides the network interface.

The device of an embodiment comprises a core engine coupled to the processor the core engine controlling dynamic provisioning of the plurality of applications and the content.

The core engine of an embodiment manages images received from a plurality devices of at least one of the security system and the LAN.

The plurality of interfaces of an embodiment provides interactivity with a plurality of devices via the plurality of interfaces.

A device of the plurality of devices of an embodiment is a device controller that controls an attached device.

The network interface of an embodiment allows a user to control functions of peripheral devices coupled to other touchscreens located at remote locations.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a device comprising a touchscreen at a first location wherein the touchscreen includes a processor coupled to a local area network LAN and a security system at the first location a plurality of applications coupled to the processor the plurality of applications displaying a plurality of interfaces to a user via the touchscreen the plurality of interfaces including a security interface and a network interface wherein the security interface provides the user with control of functions of the security system and access to data collected by the security system wherein the network interface allows the user to transfer content to and from a remote network coupled to the LAN and a remote server coupled to the touchscreen the remote server managing at least one of the touchscreen and the security system.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a device comprising an input output I O device at a first location the I O device comprising a processor coupled to a local area network LAN and a security system at the first location wherein the security system includes a plurality of security system components that are proprietary to the security system a security application coupled to the processor the security application providing a security interface for control of functions of the security system the security interface presented to a user via the I O device a content application coupled to a processor the content application providing a network interface for access to networked content of a remote wide area network WAN the network interface presented to a user via the I O device wherein the I O device is coupled to the WAN via the LAN and a remote server coupled to the I O device the remote server managing at least one of the I O device and the security system.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a system comprising a gateway at a first location the gateway coupled to a local area network LAN and a security system of the first location wherein the security system includes a plurality of security system components the gateway forming a security network that integrates functions of the security system with the LAN a touchscreen coupled to the gateway the touchscreen including a plurality of interfaces presented to a user wherein the plurality of interfaces include a security interface and a network interface wherein the security interface provides interactivity with the security system wherein the network interface provides interactivity with networked content of a remote network.

The system of an embodiment comprises a security server located at a second location different from the first location the security server coupled to the gateway the touchscreen providing interactivity with networked content of a remote network via the security server.

The security interface of an embodiment provides the user with control of functions of the security system and access to data collected by the security system

The network interface of an embodiment allows the user to transfer content to and from a wide area network WAN coupled to the LAN.

The network interface of an embodiment allows the user to control functions of network devices of the first location coupled to the LAN.

The network interface of an embodiment provides interactivity with a plurality of network devices coupled to the LAN.

The security interface of an embodiment provides the user with communication and control of the plurality of security system components.

The system of an embodiment comprises an application engine coupled to the touchscreen wherein the application engine controls a plurality of applications executing under the processor.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment includes a security application and a content application wherein the security application provides the security interface and the content application provides the network interface.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment provides interactivity with a plurality of devices via the plurality of interfaces.

The plurality of devices of an embodiment are coupled to at least one of the touchscreen and the gateway.

The plurality of devices of an embodiment are coupled to at least one of the touchscreen and the gateway via a wireless coupling.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment are accessed and loaded directly via the remote network.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment includes a resident application that manages interactions between the plurality of applications.

The resident application of an embodiment manages interactions between a plurality of devices comprising at least one of the security system components network devices coupled to the LAN and devices coupled to the remote network.

The resident application of an embodiment determines a priority of each application of the plurality of applications and manages the plurality of applications according to the priority.

The resident application of an embodiment allows a first application having a first priority to override a second application having a second priority when the first priority is higher than the second priority.

The system of an embodiment comprises a first application engine coupled to the touchscreen wherein the first application engine executes a security application that provides the security interface. The system of an embodiment comprises a second application engine coupled to the touchscreen wherein the second application engine executes a content application that provides the network interface.

The system of an embodiment comprises a core engine coupled to the touchscreen the core engine controlling dynamic provisioning of a plurality of applications and the content the plurality of applications corresponding to the plurality of interfaces.

The core engine of an embodiment manages images received from a plurality devices of at least one of the security system and the LAN.

A plurality of applications of an embodiment provides interactivity with a plurality of devices via the plurality of interfaces.

A device of the plurality of devices of an embodiment is a device controller that controls an attached device.

The gateway of an embodiment is connected to the LAN at the first location and the LAN is coupled to a wide area network via a router at the first location.

The gateway of an embodiment is coupled to a wide area network and is coupled to the LAN at the first location via a router at the first location.

The gateway of an embodiment is coupled to a security server via the internet the security server located at a second location different from the first location the touchscreen providing interactivity with networked content of a remote network via the security server.

The system of an embodiment comprises an interface coupled to the security network wherein the interface allows control of the functions of the security network from remote client devices.

The remote client devices of an embodiment include one or more of personal computers personal digital assistants cellular telephones and mobile computing devices.

The gateway of an embodiment uses protocols of the security system to discover the security system components.

The gateway of an embodiment automatically establishes a coupling with the security system including the security system components.

The gateway of an embodiment includes a rules component that manages rules of interaction between the gateway and the security system components.

The security system of an embodiment is coupled to a central monitoring station via a primary communication link wherein the gateway is coupled to the central monitoring station via a secondary communication link that is different than the primary communication link wherein the central monitoring station is located at a third location different from the first location and the second location.

The gateway of an embodiment transmits event data of the security system components to the central monitoring station over the secondary communication link.

The event data of an embodiment comprises changes in device states of the security system components data of the security system components and data received by the security system components.

The gateway of an embodiment transmits messages comprising event data of the security system components to remote client devices over the secondary communication link.

The event data of an embodiment comprises changes in device states of the security system components data of the security system components and data received by the security system components.

The gateway of an embodiment receives control data for control of the security system components from remote client devices via the secondary communication link.

The security network of an embodiment comprises network devices coupled to the gateway via a wireless coupling.

The gateway of an embodiment automatically configures the network devices for operation in the security network.

The gateway of an embodiment controls communications between the network devices and the security system components.

The gateway of an embodiment transmits event data of the network devices to remote client devices over at least one of a plurality of communication links.

The gateway of an embodiment receives control data for control of the network devices from remote client devices via at least one of the plurality of communication links.

The event data of an embodiment comprises changes in device states of the network devices data of the network devices and data received by the network devices.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a system comprising a gateway at a first location the gateway coupled to a local area network LAN and a security system of the first location wherein the security system includes a plurality of security system components that are proprietary to the security system the gateway forming a security network that integrates functions of the security system with the LAN an input output I O device at the first location and coupled to the gateway the I O device providing control of functions of the security system and the LAN and a security server located at a second location different from the first location the security server coupled to the gateway the I O device providing interactivity with networked content of a remote network via the security server.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a system comprising a gateway at a first location the gateway coupled to a security system of the first location the security system including a plurality of security system components that are proprietary to the security system the gateway forming a security network that integrates functions of the security system with network devices of a local area network LAN of the first location a touchscreen coupled to the gateway at the first location the touchscreen providing control of functions of the security system and the network devices and a security server located at a second location different from the first location the security server coupled to the gateway the touchscreen providing interactivity with networked content of a remote network via the security server.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a system comprising a touchscreen at a first location wherein the touchscreen includes a processor coupled to a local area network LAN and a security system at the first location a plurality of interfaces coupled to the processor and presented to a user via the touchscreen wherein the plurality of interfaces include a security interface and a network interface wherein the security interface provides the user with control of functions of the security system and access to data collected by the security system wherein the network interface allows the user to transfer content to and from a remote network coupled to the LAN and a security server coupled to the touchscreen and the remote network the security server located at a second location different from the first location.

The touchscreen of an embodiment provides interactivity with networked content of the remote network via the security server.

The touchscreen of an embodiment integrates the content with the access and the control of the security system.

The network interface of an embodiment allows the user to control functions of network devices coupled to the LAN.

The network interface of an embodiment provides interactivity with a plurality of network devices coupled to the LAN.

The security system of an embodiment comprises a plurality of security system components wherein the security interface provides the user with communication and control of the plurality of security system components.

The touchscreen of an embodiment integrates an internet browser and a security system control panel of the security system.

The system of an embodiment comprises an application engine coupled to the touchscreen wherein the application engine controls a plurality of applications executing under the processor.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment includes a security application and a content application wherein the security application provides the security interface and the content application provides the network interface.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment provides interactivity with a plurality of devices via the plurality of interfaces.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment are accessed and loaded directly via the remote network.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment includes a resident application that manages interactions between the plurality of applications.

The resident application of an embodiment manages interactions between a plurality of devices comprising at least one of the security system components devices coupled to the LAN and devices coupled to the remote network.

The resident application of an embodiment determines a priority of each application of the plurality of applications and manages the plurality of applications according to the priority.

The resident application of an embodiment allows a first application having a first priority to override a second application having a second priority when the first priority is higher than the second priority.

The system of an embodiment comprises a first application engine coupled to the touchscreen wherein the first application engine executes a security application that provides the security interface. The system of an embodiment comprises a second application engine coupled to the touchscreen wherein the second application engine executes a content application that provides the network interface.

The system of an embodiment comprises a core engine coupled to the touchscreen the core engine controlling dynamic provisioning of a plurality of applications and the content the plurality of applications corresponding to the plurality of interfaces.

The core engine of an embodiment manages images received from a plurality devices of at least one of the security system and the LAN.

A plurality of applications of an embodiment provides interactivity with a plurality of devices via the plurality of interfaces.

A device of the plurality of devices of an embodiment is a device controller that controls an attached device.

The touchscreen of an embodiment is connected to the LAN at the first location and the LAN is coupled to a wide area network via a router at the first location.

The touchscreen of an embodiment is coupled to a wide area network and is coupled to the LAN at the first location via a router at the first location.

The gateway of an embodiment is coupled to the security server via the internet the touchscreen providing interactivity with networked content of a remote network via the security server.

The system of an embodiment comprises a portal coupled to the security server wherein the portal allows control of the functions of the security system from remote client devices.

The remote client devices of an embodiment include one or more of personal computers personal digital assistants cellular telephones and mobile computing devices.

The touchscreen of an embodiment automatically discovers security system components of the security system.

The touchscreen of an embodiment uses protocols of the security system to discover the security system components.

The touchscreen of an embodiment includes a rules component that manages rules of interaction with the security system.

The security system of an embodiment is coupled to a central monitoring station via a primary communication link wherein the security system comprises security system components wherein the touchscreen is coupled to the central monitoring station via a secondary communication link that is different than the primary communication link wherein the central monitoring station is located at a third location different from the first location and the second location.

The touchscreen of an embodiment transmits event data of the security system to the central monitoring station over the secondary communication link.

The event data of an embodiment comprises changes in device states of the security system components data of the security system components and data received by the security system components.

The touchscreen of an embodiment transmits messages comprising event data of the security system components to remote client devices over the secondary communication link.

The event data of an embodiment comprises changes in device states of the security system components data of the security system components and data received by the security system components.

The touchscreen of an embodiment receives control data for control of the security system components from remote client devices via the secondary communication link.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a system comprising a touchscreen at a first location wherein the touchscreen includes a processor coupled to a local area network LAN and a security system at the first location a plurality of applications coupled to the processor the plurality of applications displaying a plurality of interfaces to a user via the touchscreen the plurality of interfaces including a security interface and a network interface wherein the security interface provides the user with control of functions of the security system and access to data collected by the security system wherein the network interface allows the user to transfer content to and from a remote network coupled to the LAN and a security server coupled to the touchscreen and the remote network the security server located at a second location different from the first location.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a system comprising an input output I O device at a first location the I O device comprising a processor coupled to a local area network LAN and a security system at the first location wherein the security system includes a plurality of security system components that are proprietary to the security system a security application coupled to the processor the security application providing a security interface for control of functions of the security system the security interface presented to a user via the I O device a content application coupled to a processor the content application providing a network interface for access to networked content of a remote wide area network WAN the network interface presented to a user via the I O device wherein the I O device is coupled to the WAN via the LAN and a security server coupled to the I O device and the WAN the security server located at a second location different from the first location.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a method comprising coupling a touchscreen including a processor to a local area network LAN and a security system at a first location and providing a plurality of interfaces to a user via the touchscreen the plurality of interfaces coupled to the processor wherein the plurality of interfaces include a security interface and a network interface wherein the security interface provides the user with control of functions of the security system and access to data collected by the security system wherein the network interface allows the user to transfer content to and from a wide area network WAN coupled to the LAN.

The touchscreen of an embodiment integrates the content with the access and control of the security system.

The network interface of an embodiment allows the user to control functions of peripheral devices of the first location coupled to the LAN.

The network interface of an embodiment provides the user with communication and control of a plurality of network devices coupled to the LAN.

The network interface of an embodiment provides the user with communication and control of a plurality of security system components wherein the security system comprises the plurality of security system components.

The WAN of an embodiment is the internet and the network interface of an embodiment is a web browser.

The method of an embodiment comprises an application engine coupled to the processor wherein the application engine controls a plurality of applications executing under the processor.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment includes a security application and a content application wherein the security application provides the security interface and the content application provides the network interface.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment provides interactivity with a plurality of devices via the plurality of interfaces.

The plurality of applications of an embodiment includes a resident application that manages interactions between the plurality of applications.

The resident application of an embodiment determines a priority of each application of the plurality of applications and manages the plurality of applications according to the priority.

The resident application of an embodiment allows a first application having a first priority to override a second application having a second priority when the first priority is higher than the second priority.

The method of an embodiment comprises a first application engine coupled to the processor wherein the first application engine executes a security application that provides the security interface. The method of an embodiment comprises a second application engine coupled to the processor wherein the second application engine executes a content application that provides the network interface.

The method of an embodiment comprises a core engine coupled to the processor the core engine controlling dynamic provisioning of the plurality of applications and the content.

The core engine of an embodiment manages images received from a plurality devices of at least one of the security system and the LAN.

The plurality of interfaces of an embodiment provides interactivity with a plurality of devices via the plurality of interfaces.

A device of the plurality of devices of an embodiment is a device controller that controls an attached device.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a method comprising coupling a touchscreen including a processor to a local area network LAN and a security system at a first location and displaying a plurality of interfaces to a user via the touchscreen the plurality of interfaces displayed by a plurality of applications coupled to the processor the plurality of interfaces including a security interface and a network interface wherein the security interface provides the user with control of functions of the security system and access to data collected by the security system wherein the network interface allows the user to transfer content to and from a remote network coupled to the LAN.

Embodiments of the integrated security system include a method comprising coupling an input output I O device including a processor to a local area network LAN and a security system at a first location wherein the security system includes a plurality of security system components that are proprietary to the security system providing a security interface for control of functions of the security system the security interface presented to a user via the I O device wherein a security application coupled to the processor generates the security interface and providing a network interface for access to networked content of a remote network the network interface presented to a user via the I O device wherein a content application coupled to the processor generates the network interface.

Aspects of the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods described herein may be implemented as functionality programmed into any of a variety of circuitry including programmable logic devices PLDs such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable array logic PAL devices electrically programmable logic and memory devices and standard cell based devices as well as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Some other possibilities for implementing aspects of the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods include microcontrollers with memory such as electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM embedded microprocessors firmware software etc. Furthermore aspects of the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods may be embodied in microprocessors having software based circuit emulation discrete logic sequential and combinatorial custom devices fuzzy neural logic quantum devices and hybrids of any of the above device types. Of course the underlying device technologies may be provided in a variety of component types e.g. metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET technologies like complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS bipolar technologies like emitter coupled logic ECL polymer technologies e.g. silicon conjugated polymer and metal conjugated polymer metal structures mixed analog and digital etc.

It should be noted that any system method and or other components disclosed herein may be described using computer aided design tools and expressed or represented as data and or instructions embodied in various computer readable media in terms of their behavioral register transfer logic component transistor layout geometries and or other characteristics. Computer readable media in which such formatted data and or instructions may be embodied include but are not limited to non volatile storage media in various forms e.g. optical magnetic or semiconductor storage media and carrier waves that may be used to transfer such formatted data and or instructions through wireless optical or wired signaling media or any combination thereof. Examples of transfers of such formatted data and or instructions by carrier waves include but are not limited to transfers uploads downloads e mail etc. over the Internet and or other computer networks via one or more data transfer protocols e.g. HTTP FTP SMTP etc. . When received within a computer system via one or more computer readable media such data and or instruction based expressions of the above described components may be processed by a processing entity e.g. one or more processors within the computer system in conjunction with execution of one or more other computer programs.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in a sense of including but not limited to. Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally the words herein hereunder above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the word or is used in reference to a list of two or more items that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above description of embodiments of the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the systems and methods to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the systems and methods as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. The teachings of the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods provided herein can be applied to other systems and methods not only for the systems and methods described above.

The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. These and other changes can be made to the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods in light of the above detailed description.

In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all systems that operate under the claims. Accordingly the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods is not limited by the disclosure but instead the scope is to be determined entirely by the claims.

While certain aspects of the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods in any number of claim forms. Accordingly the inventors reserve the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the integrated security system and corresponding systems and methods.

