---

title: System and method for television-based services
abstract: A system, method, and processor-readable media for providing interactive, television-based gaming service, comprising a server cluster including processor electronics configured to send and receive messages and to execute a game, a first set-top box coupled to a first headend managed by a first television service provider, the first set-top box executing a first game client for enabling a first user to play the game executed by the server cluster, a second set-top box coupled to a second headend managed by a second television service provider, the second set-top box executing a second game client for enabling a second user to play the game executed by the server cluster, wherein the server cluster is coupled to the first and second headends via a public network and further configured to enable the first user to play the game with or against the second user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09044681&OS=09044681&RS=09044681
owner: NTN Buzztime, Inc.
number: 09044681
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131016
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. Pat. No. 8 562 438 entitled System and Method for Television Based Services filed on Oct. 26 2007 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 863 105 filed Oct. 26 2006 entitled Multiplayer Gaming Infrastructure the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to the provision of interactive services to one or more users over a television distribution system including interactive gaming services.

Television signal distribution architectures have been developed to provide alternatives to traditional over the air broadcasting. For example since the late 1940 s cable television systems have been used to deliver television signals to subscribers. Cable television systems distribute signals over optical fibers and or electrical cables such as coaxial cable. Further wireless cable systems have been developed using microwave signals as the distribution medium. Cable television systems permit the distribution of both typical over the air content such as broadcast networks and specialized content such as pay channels and video on demand.

In a cable television system television programming representing a number of individual television channels is coordinated at a headend for distribution to subscribers such as endpoints within a particular geographic region. All of the endpoints serviced by a headend receive a common signal. Television programming representing a plurality of separate frequency bands is multiplexed onto a single cable. The television signal can be encoded as an analog signal or a digital signal. A set top box or cable television tuner at the receiving location such as a subscriber s home or business provides access to a single channel of the multiplexed signal. Thus a single channel included in the cable television signal can be tuned and presented on a corresponding device such as a television or computer monitor.

Direct broadcast satellite or direct to home television systems also have been developed as an alternative to over the air broadcasting. As with cable television direct broadcast satellite television provides a single multiplexed signal that is decoded using a set top box or satellite receiver . The distribution medium between the satellite broadcaster and the set top box however is a radio frequency signal such as a K band transmission.

Until recently both cable and satellite television distribution systems were limited to receive only. Because coaxial cables are capable of bi directional transmission however additional services have been merged with cable television systems. For example voice and data services have been offered over cable television distribution systems. Similarly the cable television transmission path can serve as a back channel for information sent from the set top box to the cable television provider. Typically the bandwidth upstream from a set top box to a headend is lower than the downstream bandwidth from the headend to the set top box. Further satellite television providers also have implemented bi directional communication capabilities and are offering additional services such as internet connectivity in conjunction with the television signal distribution architecture.

An interactive service involving one or more subscribers or users can be provided over a television distribution system. For example game play can be initiated from a client device such as a set top box included in the television distribution system. Further execution and coordination of a game instance can be controlled by a server device included in the television distribution system. For example the server device can be configured to control access to a game to manage game play to record game scores and to facilitate communication and interaction between subscribers participating in one or more game instances. Other interactive services also can be provided over the television distribution system including shopping weather forecasts and chatting.

In order to provide interactive services over a television distribution system the present inventors recognized the need to permit bi directional communication over the television distribution system relating to the interactive service between a client device such as a set top box and a server device such as a game server or server cluster. Further the present inventors recognized the need to permit authenticating by the server device one or more client device users.

The present inventors also recognized the need for the server device to communicate with a plurality of client devices which can be configured to communicate using different protocols or message formats. Further the need to utilize a plurality of server devices within the television distribution system also was recognized. Additionally the present inventors also recognized the need to utilize a single global protocol for communication between elements within a server device. The single global communication protocol also can be used for communication between server devices. Accordingly the techniques and apparatus described here implement algorithms for providing interactive services over a television distribution system.

In general in one aspect the subject matter can be implemented to include receiving input over the television distribution system from a game client indicating an action associated with a game instance wherein the game client is hosted on a set top box determining an updated status of the game instance based on the action generating a game status message identifying the updated status of the game instance and transmitting the game status message to the game client.

The subject matter also can be implemented to include transmitting the game status message to a plurality of game clients participating in the game instance. Further the subject matter can be implemented to include receiving input over the television distribution system from another game client indicating a second action associated with the game instance and determining an updated status of the game instance based on the second action. Additionally the subject matter can be implemented to include processing the game status message by the game client to generate a current status of the game instance at the set top box.

In general in another aspect the techniques can be implemented as a computer program product encoded on a computer readable medium operable to cause data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising receiving input over a television distribution system from a game client indicating an action associated with a game instance wherein the game client is hosted on a set top box included in the television distribution system determining an updated status of the game instance based on the action generating a game status message identifying the updated status of the game instance and transmitting the game status message to the game client.

The subject matter also can be implemented to be operable to cause data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising transmitting the game status message to a plurality of game clients participating in the game instance. The subject matter further can be implemented to be operable to cause data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising receiving input over the television distribution system from another game client indicating a second action associated with the game instance and determining an updated status of the game instance based on the second action. Additionally the subject matter further can be implemented to be operable to cause data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising processing the game status message by the game client to generate a current status of the game instance at the set top box.

In general in another aspect the subject matter can be implemented as a system including a game client hosted on a set top box included in a television distribution system and a server including processor electronics configured to perform operations comprising receiving input over the television distribution system from the game client indicating an action associated with a game instance determining an updated status of the game instance based on the action generating a game status message identifying the updated status of the game instance and transmitting the game status message to the game client.

The subject matter also can be implemented such that the processor electronics are further configured to perform operations comprising transmitting the game status message to a plurality of game clients participating in the game instance. Further the subject matter can be implemented such that the processor electronics are further configured to perform operations comprising receiving input from another game client indicating a second action associated with the game instance and determining an updated status of the game instance based on the second action. Additionally the subject matter can be implemented such that the processor electronics are further configured to perform operations comprising processing the game status message by the game client to generate a current status of the game instance.

In general in another aspect the subject matter can be implemented as a system including an interactive services client hosted on a set top box included in a television distribution system and a server including processor electronics configured to perform operations comprising receiving a request from the interactive services client to participate in an interactive service hosted by the server verifying that the interactive services client is authorized to participate in the interactive service and assigning the interactive services client to a process corresponding to the interactive service.

The techniques described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. For example the techniques can be implemented such that one or more client devices can participate in interactive services provided by one or more server devices in a television distribution system. The techniques also can be implemented such that a plurality of client devices two or more of which are configured to utilize a different communication protocol can interact over the television distribution system. Additionally the techniques can be implemented to include utilizing a single global communication protocol by the one or more server devices included in the television distribution system.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

A game player or subscriber can access one or more interactive games through an STB such as the STB . For example the STB can be located at the game player s home or office. Further the game player can access one or more interactive games through any STB that has been provisioned in the television distribution system . The STB can be connected to one or more display devices such as a television or monitor. The STB also can be connected to one or more audio output devices such as speakers or an audio receiver. Further the STB can be coupled with one or more peripheral devices such as one or more joysticks game pads keyboards keypads and or controllers. Each of the peripheral devices can be coupled with the STB over a wired or wireless interface. Additionally one or more remote control devices can be used to communicate with the STB .

In an implementation one or more aspects can differ between the STBs including the manufacturer the operating instructions or middleware the configuration the communications interface and the hardware such as the memory and or the processor. Additionally the television distribution system can include STBs associated with two or more cable television systems or service providers.

An STB can be connected to a headend through a bi directional communication path. A headend can receive input from and provide output to one or more STBs. For example the STBs can be connected to the headends . In the television distribution system one or more cable television providers operate the headends to provide television programming and interactive services to corresponding STBs. The STBs associated with a headend receive a common signal from that headend. Further a headend can be configured to provide connectivity to the internet for one or more associated STBs. In some implementations the headend can serve as a proxy or router for the one or more STBs connected to the headend.

Additionally the STBs that are connected to a headend can use any desired communication protocol and message format. For example the STBs and can communicate with the corresponding headend using any desired communication protocol such as the Aloha or slotted Aloha protocol. STBs associated with a different headend such as the headend can use the same communication protocol and message format as is used in conjunction with the headend or a different communication protocol and or message format.

Further the game client running on the STB can communicate with the server cluster . When the game client initiates communication a connection such as a secure socket layer SSL connection can be established between the headend and the server cluster over the internet . The connection can be made with a connection processor such as the connection processor included in the server cluster . When the game client on the STB transmits data the headend forwards the transmitted data over the connection to the connection processor . Further the headend can forward the transmitted data using any communication protocol and message format. For example the headend can translate the data received from the STB into a different communication protocol and or message format.

The connection processors are configured to terminate the connections established between the various headends and the server cluster . In a distributed environment such as the one shown in the television distribution system a headend can establish a connection with any available connection processor included in the server cluster such as one of the connection processors . In an implementation a headend also can establish a connection with a plurality of connection processors of the server cluster such as for different services on the same STB or services associated with different STBs. In another implementation a headend can establish connections with a plurality of server clusters such as server clusters offering different interactive services. Upon receiving a message on the connection the connection processor included in the server cluster forwards the message to a corresponding protocol converter and message router . In some implementations the protocol converter can be realized in an element separate from the message router.

The protocol converter and message router can be configured to translate the received message from the communication protocol and message format utilized by the STB and or headend into the communication protocol and message format utilized within the server cluster . For example a gaming platform of an STB that uses the Flash programming language can transmit one or more XML based messages to the server cluster through a corresponding headend. The protocol converter and message router which is associated with the server cluster can translate the XML based messages received from the headend into a communication protocol and message format utilized within the server cluster . For example the server cluster can be configured to utilize a single standard communication protocol and message format or cluster protocol for all messages routed within the server cluster . Further the protocol converter and message router can be configured to translate messages from the cluster protocol into a communication protocol and message format that is compatible with an STB to which the message is being sent.

The protocol converter and message router also can be configured to distribute the converted message to one or more processes and or modules included in the server cluster such as the login process the lobby manager the scoring processor the advertising module one or more game processes and the database . For example the protocol converter and message router can pass the converted message to the messaging layer for distribution. In some implementations the messaging layer can implement the JMS message model. The protocol converter and message router also can be configured to distribute messages to one or more other protocol converters and message routers included in the server cluster such as the protocol converters and message routers .

The messaging layer can be configured to distribute messages between elements included in the server cluster including the protocol converters and message routers the database the login process the lobby manager the scoring processor the advertising module and one or more game processes. Further the messaging layer can include one or more message channels or message queues through which messages are routed.

In some implementations the messaging layer can implement a Publish Subscribe model for message distribution to the server cluster elements including the processes and modules. In the Publish Subscribe model an element of the server cluster that is configured to communicate with the messaging layer can subscribe to one or more predetermined message types and or messages including one or more predetermined identifiers. For example the login process can subscribe to login messages received by the server cluster . Thus login messages received by the server cluster can be routed by the messaging layer to the login process . For example a received login message can be inserted into a message queue associated with the login process by the messaging layer . The login process can then retrieve the login message from the message queue for processing. An element included in the server cluster can have one or more associated message queues. A game process also can subscribe to messages from one or more clients that are participating in a game instance associated with the game process.

A process executing in the server cluster also can transmit one or more messages to a target STB. For example a game process executing on the server cluster can generate a game status message that is to be transmitted to a game client executing on the target STB. The game status message can include an indicator associated with the target STB. Further the game process can pass the game status message to the messaging layer where the message can be inserted into a message queue associated with the protocol converter and message router subscribing to messages relating to the target STB. The protocol converter and message router can route the message through an associated connection processor to a network over which the game status message can be delivered to the headend associated with the target STB. The headend then can insert the game status message into the data signal provided to the subscribing STBs connected to the headend and the message can be retrieved by the target STB.

The login process of the server cluster can uniquely identify a subscriber before permitting the subscriber to participate in an interactive service. For example before a subscriber can begin a game hosted by the server cluster the subscriber can be directed to log in such as by presenting a login screen. In response the subscriber can submit a login request to the login process through the game client hosted on the STB such as by supplying a username and password. In some implementations either or both of the username and password can be stored on the STB . The supplied username and password can be transmitted in one or more messages from the STB to the login process for login and authentication purposes. For example the username and password can be transmitted through the headend to the internet and then through the connection processor the protocol converter and message router and the messaging layer . An alternative communication path using one or more other elements also can be used if available.

Further the login process can be configured to query corresponding user data from the database in order to perform the login and authentication. The game client also can be configured to utilize a common application programming interface API for communication with the login process . The common API can be responsible for transmitting the login information to the login process verifying the login result and returning the user identifier to the game client . The user identifier can be utilized to uniquely identify the subscriber while the subscriber s session is active. Once the game client has been authenticated the user can be given access to one or more menus associated with interactive services available through the server cluster such as one or more interactive games.

A lobby manager also can be included in the server cluster . The lobby manager can be configured to track the location of the subscriber within a game environment while the game client is connected to the server cluster . For example a game environment can include one or more virtual lobbies with which a subscriber can be associated such as a poker lobby. The poker lobby further can be associated with one or more poker game rooms in which separate poker game instances can be played. Additionally the game environment can include a lobby associated with one or more other games such as billiards and checkers. In another implementation a plurality of lobbies can be associated with a game provided in a game environment. The server cluster can manage one or more game environments. Further a game environment can be defined that spans a plurality of server clusters. A subscriber can select which environment or server cluster to join such as by selecting a predefined world or game. Alternatively a subscriber can be automatically assigned to an environment or server cluster such as by the headend.

The lobby manager can store the location of one or more subscribers in the database . A subscriber can move between lobbies and or rooms included in the game environment by issuing one or more commands to the game client . When a subscriber move occurs the lobby manager can update the database to reflect the subscriber s new location. The lobby manager also can send a notification message announcing the player move to one or more subscribers such as subscribers associated with the lobby the player left and subscribers associated with the lobby the player joined. Additionally the lobby manager can send a notification message to one or more other subscribers such as buddies who have requested information regarding the location of the subscriber who has changed locations.

A lobby can be utilized to organize a plurality of common game instances or subscriber groupings. A game instance can be created for each bottom level room that corresponds to a lobby based on a set of configuration characteristics. A fixed room hierarchy can be used in which game rooms can be generated as needed in accordance with one or more sets of configuration characteristics. Further dynamic room creation can be implemented to allow one or more subscribers to create a game instance in accordance with a custom set of configuration characteristics such as game settings and difficulty parameters. Access to a dynamically created room also can be controlled such as through invitation or password. Two or more rooms for which the associated configuration characteristics vary can be associated with a common lobby.

In addition a lobby can be used as a chat point where subscribers can engage in text based chat sessions with one another. As with games chat points can be organized by a topic or a subscriber group. A chat system in the server cluster can be configured to allow a subscriber to access a list of pre programmed text strings which can be initialized before a chat session is initiated or joined. Further text can be entered by a subscriber through an on screen interface generated by the STB. For example a virtual keyboard can be displayed in which letters numbers and special purpose characters are selected through use of a remote control device.

A game process such as the game processes represents a server side component of a game application. For example the game process can be a self contained entity that is configured to generate a game state for one or more connected game clients such as the game client of the STB . In an implementation the game process can be configured to generate a poker game and can be responsible for determining what cards are dealt to each subscriber or player participating in the game managing the value of the pot controlling the sequence of the game and determining which player wins a hand. Further the game process can interface with the database to save information representing a persistent game state and to register the statistics associated with the players such as each player s bank. A game process such as the game process can be initialized by the lobby manager when a subscriber elects to host a game of a specific type. In another example a game process can be automatically initialized by the lobby manager such as when only a predetermined number of available positions remain in the existing game processes.

A scoring processor included in the server cluster permits a game process such as the game processes and or a game client such as the game client to post scoring data. The scoring data can include game specific data and events. Further the scoring data can be used to rank subscribers who participate in a game environment. In an implementation the user rankings and associated statistics can be stored in the database . The scoring processor can be configured to track data submitted for one or more games and can provide current rankings based on the scoring data such as in response to a game event or a request. A request can be generated by a game client or a game process. For example a subscriber playing a single player game such as checkers can submit the time taken to win a game instance to the scoring processor via a client scoring system API. In another example the game process associated with a multiplayer game such as billiards can post one or more items of user ranking data on behalf of the game participants.

The server cluster also can include an advertising module which can be configured to manage advertising content. The advertising module also can schedule advertising content for delivery to an STB such as in response to a game event or at a predetermined interval. In some implementations an advertisement can comprise a full screen image or full screen full motion video. Further audio content also can be associated with an advertisement. In some implementations an advertisement also can be an image or video sequence that occupies a smaller portion of a display or screen such as a banner embedded in the game space. For example a sponsor s logo can be displayed on the surface of a poker or pool table. The advertising module can indicate to the game client through one or more messages that a particular advertisement is to be presented at a predetermined time or in response to a predetermined event. In some implementations the advertising module can be configured to select one or more advertisements for presentation based on a parameter such as the geographical location of a headend or an STB.

A connection processor such as the connection processor included in the server cluster can be configured to communicate with the headend over the connection. In a distributed network environment such as the internet any connection processor included in the server cluster can serve as the connection point for the headend. Further a connection processor included in the server cluster can communicate with a plurality of headends.

The connection processor receives the message for processing in the server cluster. For example the connection processor can be configured to receive the message over the connection with the headend and to pass the message to a corresponding protocol converter and message router included in the server cluster such as the protocol converter and message router . A protocol converter and message router can receive messages from a plurality of connection processors.

The protocol converter and message router can be configured to determine the format of a received message. For example the protocol converter can determine how the message has been encoded and or how the message is structured. Further the protocol converter and message router can determine whether the message is compatible with the cluster protocol utilized within the server cluster. If the message is not compatible with the cluster protocol the message can be converted into a compatible format by the protocol converter. In some implementations the protocol converter can be configured to convert a message from any format employed by a participating STB or headend into a format that is compatible with the cluster protocol. If the message is in a compatible format or once the message has been converted into the cluster protocol the protocol converter and message router can route the message to one or more subscribing processes. A subscribing process can then access the message for use within the cluster server.

The television distribution system architecture can be scaled to meet the demands of the subscribers. In some implementations the television distribution system can include one or more server clusters which can be designated based on geography subscriber population or services. Further a server cluster also can be scaled to meet the demands of subscribers. For example a plurality of one or more types of elements such as connection processors protocol converters and message routers databases and processors can be included in the cluster server based on system demand. Additionally information regarding one or more STBs and headends can be stored in a database included in the server cluster.

The process forwards the message within the server cluster over the messaging layer. For example the messaging layer can direct the message to one or more message queues that have subscribed to messages relating to the indicator such as the user identifier included in the message. In the present example the message can be inserted into a message queue corresponding to the protocol converter and message router that processes message traffic to the STB with which the indicator is associated. The protocol converter and message router can retrieve the message from the message queue and determine the format associated with the STB to which the message is to be transmitted. Further the protocol converter and message router can determine whether the message is to be converted . For example if the message format of the cluster protocol is incompatible with the message format of the STB the message can be converted to the STB format .

Once the message has been converted to the STB format or if the message format already is compatible with the message format of the STB the message can be forwarded to the associated connection processor . Further the connection processor can transmit the message to the game client hosted on the destination STB such as over the connection with the headend corresponding to the STB. Thus one or more processes executing in the cluster server can transmit messages to associated STBs. Additionally processes executing in the server cluster also can communicate with one another over the messaging layer. For example a game process can publish a scoring message to the messaging layer. Further the scoring processor can subscribe to all scoring messages. Thus the messaging layer can insert the scoring message generated by the game process into a message queue associated with the scoring processor.

The login request message can be transmitted from the requesting STB to the headend over a bi directional communication path. Further the headend can route the login request message received from the requesting STB over a communication network such as the internet to a corresponding cluster server. In some implementations the headend can route the login request message to the cluster server over an SSL connection. The login request message can be received at the cluster server by a connection processor which further can forward the message to an associated protocol converter and message router .

The protocol converter and message router can convert the login request message into a format compatible with the cluster protocol and then route the login request message to the login process over the messaging layer . The protocol converter can be configured to determine the format of the message and can convert between any format utilized by an STB included in the television distribution system and the cluster protocol format. A protocol converter can be updated to include a new conversion routine when an STB with an unsupported protocol or message format is used in the television distribution system . The login process can retrieve the login request message from the messaging layer and can determine whether the subscriber supplying the credentials can be authorized . For example the login process can compare the supplied credentials with authorization data stored in the database of the server cluster.

If the login process determines that the subscriber can be authorized an authorization message can be generated and the subscriber can be given access to the interactive services . For example the login process can assign the subscriber to an initial lobby of the server cluster. If the login process determines that the subscriber cannot be authorized a rejection message can be generated and the subscriber can be denied access to the interactive services of the server cluster . The login response message generated by the login process can be forwarded to the protocol converter and message router such as over the messaging layer. For example an indicator identifying the requesting STB can be included in the login response message generated by the login process. Further the protocol converter and message router that forwarded the login request can subscribe to any messages corresponding to the requesting STB. Thus the messaging queue can insert the login response message into a message queue associated with the subscribing protocol converter and message router.

The protocol converter and message router can convert the login response message into a format compatible with the requesting STB and pass the converted message to the associated connection processor for transmission to the headend . For example the connection processor can transmit the message to the headend over an established connection such as an SSL connection. The headend can then deliver the login response message to the requesting STB . For example the headend can insert the login response message into a data stream that is provided to one or more STBs including the requesting STB. The message can be included in a file carousel which periodically circulates data to the STBs connected to a headend.

Once the subscriber submits data representing an event the game client on the STB with which the subscriber is interacting can generate one or more game data messages . The one or more game data messages can be forwarded to the headend to which the STB is connected . A game data message can be transmitted from the STB to the headend using any communication protocol supported by the television distribution system. Further the headend can transmit the one or more game data messages to the cluster server hosting the game process that is controlling the game instance . For example the headend can serve as a proxy for the STB and can route game data messages over a network to the cluster server.

The one or more game data messages generated by the game client can be received at the cluster server . For example a connection processor included in the cluster server can receive messages transmitted to the cluster server by one or more headends. Further the connection processor can forward the received messages to a protocol converter and message router which can convert a received message into a format compatible with the elements hosted in the cluster server. The protocol converter and message router also can distribute the message to one or more processes executing in the cluster server including the game process with which the message is associated.

The game process can update the game status based on the game data included in the one or more game data messages . For example in a billiards game instance the game process can utilize the shot identified by the game data to calculate the new position of the billiard balls. In a poker game instance the game process can update the status of the game instance to reflect the subscriber s action. The game process further can be configured to generate a game status message indicating the updated status of the game instance . The game status message can include one or more items of data that can be used by the game logic included in the game client to accurately represent the current state of the game instance.

Additionally the game process can transmit the game status message to one or more participating subscribers . For example the game process can pass the game status message to the messaging layer which can forward the game status message to a protocol converter and message router to be formatted in accordance with the requirements of the intended recipient STBs. The formatted game status messages can then be passed to a connection processor which can transmit the messages to one or more headends for distribution to the recipient STBs. Upon receipt of a game status message a game client associated with a participating STB can update the status of the game. Further the STB can present the updated game status to a subscriber on the associated display. For example in a billiards game instance the game client can update the position of the balls based on the most recent shot. In a poker game instance the game client can update the hand based on the most recent player action.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus.

The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more of them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer processing device or on multiple computers processing devices that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

A number of implementations have been disclosed herein. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claims. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

