---

title: Conversations on time-shifted content
abstract: Techniques for providing conversations on time-shifted contents for social interaction include playing a time-shifted content with a timeline in a window of an application; and displaying one or more comments and respective time points sequentially over the time-shifted content in the window as the time-shifted content is played to the respective time points along the timeline, the one or more comments associated with the respective time points in a database associating respective comments to respective time points of the time-shifted content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09066064&OS=09066064&RS=09066064
owner: FrameBuzz, LLC
number: 09066064
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131030
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 753 490 filed Jan. 17 2013 and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 877 160 filed Sep. 12 2013 the entire contents of both previous applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

This disclosure relates generally to data communication and more particularly to providing conversations on time shifted contents for social interaction.

Conventional systems for presentation of media such as video typically do not allow conversations on specific video frames. Social conversations around online video are usually disjointed from the online video and filled with spam. Some commenting solutions use separate social networks to have conversations around videos or use static after the fact commenting.

The present disclosure relates to computer implemented methods software and systems for providing conversations on time shifted contents for social interaction. In one general embodiment a computer implemented method executed by one or more processors includes playing a time shifted content with a timeline in a window of an application and displaying one or more comments and respective time points sequentially over the time shifted content in the window as the time shifted content is played to the respective time points along the timeline the one or more comments associated with the respective time points in a database associating respective comments to respective time points of the time shifted content.

Other general implementations include corresponding computer systems apparatus and computer programs recorded on one or more computer storage devices each configured to perform the actions of the methods. A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform operations to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

A first aspect combinable with any of the general implementations further includes presenting a first comment and a first time point over the time shifted content in the window when the time shifted content is played to the first time point along the timeline the first comment associated with the first time point in a database associating respective comments to respective time points of the time shifted content.

A second aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes presenting the first comment and the first time point at a first position when the time shifted content is played to the first time point of the time shifted content along the timeline.

In a third aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the first comment and the first time point move over the time shifted content in the window as the time shifted content is played along the timeline.

In a fourth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the first position is on a top right corner of the window.

A fifth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes moving downward one or more earlier comments presented in the window the one or more earlier comments associated with respective earlier time points of the time shifted content in the database and the respective earlier time points earlier than the first time point.

A sixth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes presenting a second comment and a second time point at the first position when the time shifted content is played to the second time point of the time shifted content along the timeline the second comment associated with the second time point in the database and moving the first comment and the first time point to a second position.

In a seventh aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the second position is immediately below the first position.

In an eighth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects presenting a first comment and a first time point includes determining that the first comment is associated with the first time point of the time shifted content in the database and in response presenting the first comment and the first time point at the first position when the time shifted content is played to the first time point along the timeline.

In a ninth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the first comment is provided by a first user of the application and the first user is associated with the first comment in the database.

In a tenth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the first user is associated with one or more of a first user name a first user icon and a first user profile in a registration database.

In an eleventh aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the first user name and the first user icon are presented together with the first comment and the first time point at the first position when the time shifted content is played to the first time point along the timeline.

In a twelfth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the application is a plugin installed in a web server.

In a thirteenth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the time shifted content includes one or more of a video content an audio content a text content a picture content and any combination thereof.

A fourteenth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes selecting specific comments associated with a user playing the time shifted content and presenting only the specific comments as the time shifted content is played to specific time points associated with the specific comments.

A fifteenth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes receiving a first reply to the first comment storing the first reply in the database and associating the first reply to the first comment in the database.

A sixteenth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes notifying the first reply to the first user.

A seventeenth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes hiding the first reply as the time shifted content is played.

An eighteenth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining that the first comment in the window is clicked at a specific time point of the time shifted content and in response pausing the time shifted content at the specific time point and presenting the first comment the first time point and one or more replies associated with the first comment in a portion of the window.

A nineteenth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining that the first time point is clicked and in response jumping the time shifted content to a time point ahead of the first time point by a predefined period.

In a twentieth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the first comment is set to be visible to one or more particular users.

A twenty first aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining that a user playing the time shifted content is not within the one or more particular users and in response hiding the first comment as the time shifted content is played.

A twenty second aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining that a user playing the time shifted content is within the one or more particular users and in response presenting the first comment as the time shifted content is played to the first time point along the timeline.

A twenty third aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining that a second comment is being input when the time shifted content is played to a second time point of the time shifted content along the timeline storing the second time point in the database determining that the second comment is completed storing the second comment in the database associating the second comment with the second time point in the database and presenting the second comment and the second time point at the first position.

In a twenty fourth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the time shifted content is paused for playing during the input of the second comment and resumes playing when determining that the second comment is completed.

In a twenty fifth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the time shifted content is kept playing during the input of the second comment.

In a twenty sixth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the time shifted content is set to allow conversation from one or more specific users.

In a twenty seventh aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the conversation includes one or more of a comment and a reply.

A twenty eighth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining that a user playing the time shifted content is not within the one or more specific users and in response refusing to receive conservation from the user.

A twenty ninth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining that a user playing the time shifted content is within the one or more specific users and in response allowing conservation from the user.

In a thirtieth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the time shifted content is published by a content provider on a server and one or more of the content provider and an administrator of the server sets rules for moderating conservation associated with the time shifted content wherein the conservation includes one or more of comments and replies.

In a thirty first aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the rules include one or more of lists of blocked allowed words in the comments allowing blocking profanity and settings for how the comments awaiting moderation are displayed and how moderators are notified.

A thirty second aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining a ranking score for each comment associated with respective time point of the time shifted content in the database and presenting based on the ranking score the comment associated with the respective time point of the time shifted content.

A thirty third aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining that a specific user is a star commenter and in response setting high ranking scores for specific comments or and replies provided by the specific user.

In a thirty fourth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects presenting the comment associated with the respective time point of the time shifted content includes only presenting the comment with the highest ranking score among multiple comments associated with the respective time point.

In a thirty fifth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects determining a ranking score for each comment includes determining a ranking score for each comment based on an algorithm.

A thirty sixth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes receiving a request to play the time shifted content in the window of the application from a second user of the application.

In a thirty seventh aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the request includes a link directing to the time shifted content stored in a content server.

In a thirty eighth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the application is operated in an application server and wherein the application server is different from the content server and connected to the content server via a network.

A thirty ninth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes providing a new link incorporating an embed code based on the link the embed code enabling commenting functionalities for the time shifted content when the new link is posted on a web server to play the time shifted content.

A fortieth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes generating reports detailing behavior of users associated with comments replies of one or more time shifted contents in the database.

In a forty first aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the users are one or more of commenters providing the comments and content publishers providing the one or more time shifted contents.

A forty second aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining based on a criteria that contents are relevant to a given user of the application and in response providing the contents to the given user.

In a forty third aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the contents include one or more of time shifted contents comments or and replies associated with specific time shifted contents websites and other users profiles.

In a forty fourth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the criteria is based on one or more of social interactivities of the given user preferences of the given user and behavior of the given user.

In a forty fifth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the application includes asynchronous and synchronous services operating in tandem to support aspects of the application.

In a forty sixth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the synchronous services include one or more of signing into the services loading user profile pages and sending notifications of new comments.

In a forty seventh aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects the asynchronous services include one or more of supporting commenting social interaction and analytics tied to user behavior at specific time points during playing of time shifted contents.

A forty eighth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes receiving a request to play the time shifted content from a user and activating one or more services of the asynchronous services for the user.

A forty ninth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes presenting a map to graphically weighting comments associated with individual time points along the timeline.

A fiftieth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects further includes determining that a point of the map associated with a specific time point of the time shifted content is clicked and in response jumping the time shifted content to the specific time point.

Various implementations of a computing system according to the present disclosure may provide one or more of the following features. For example the computing system can provide a platform for time shifted contents e.g. online video that presents threaded moment by moment conversations within a display screen itself during playing the time shifted contents. The computing system enables social conversations around every moment of the time shifted contents curates comments tied to specific moments for more contextual discussions and gives content providers a new way to engage viewers. The computing system also enables viewers browse comments and conversations from other viewers add their own comments at any moment of the contents and post responses to comments from other viewers. The computing system also allows specific users e.g. actors directors and others involved in the production of the time shifted contents to create personal annotated comment streams on the time shifted contents.

The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter of this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The present disclosure describes a system and method for providing threaded moment by moment conversations on time shifted contents. The time shifted contents can be one or more of video contents audio contents text contents picture contents and any combination thereof. Implementations of the present disclosure can provide a social medial platform that brings social interaction to time shifted contents. The platform can allow users view comments from other users during presentation of time shifted contents and provide their own comments or replies at specific time points of timelines of the time shifted contents.

In some examples the client device and the server systems communicate with one another over the network . In some examples the network can include a large computer network such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet a cellular network or a combination thereof connecting any number of communication devices computing devices and or server systems.

In some examples each server system can include one or more computing devices and one or more machine readable repositories or databases. In the depicted example the server system is an application server associated with an application provider the server system is a content server associated with a content provider e.g. YouTube or Vimeo Videos for providing time shifted contents e.g. videos movies music and the server system is a web server associated with a web service provider e.g. Yahoo NY Times . In some examples a server system can be associated with an entity by being owned and operated by the entity. In some examples a server system can be associated with an entity by being provided on behalf of the entity e.g. by a cloud service provider .

In some implementations the server system can provide an application for providing conversations on time shifted contents. The application can include functionalities of playing the time shifted contents and functionalities of commenting the time shifted contents. In some examples the user can be a user of the application. The user can register with the server system and be associated with a user name a user icon a user profile page in a registration database stored in the server system . The user can provide comments or replies to a time shifted content played by the application. In some examples the user is a viewer of a time shifted content played by the application. The user can be notified to register with or log in the server system such that the user can provide comments or replies to the time shifted content.

In some implementations the user uses the client device to transmit a request to the server system for playing a time shifted content using the application. In some examples the request includes a link and the link is directed to the time shifted content stored in a content server e.g. the server system . In some examples the time shifted content is stored in the client device itself or in the server system .

In some implementations the application includes real time asynchronous services and synchronous services operating in tandem to support different aspects of the application. In some examples the synchronous services include one or more of signing into the service loading user profile pages sending email notifications of new comments employ a standard web software stack. In some examples the asynchronous services include one or more of services that support commenting social interaction and analytics tied to user behavior at specific moments during the playback of a time shifted content. The application can be based on a real time services architecture with respect to a timeline of the time shifted content. The real time services architecture around the timeline of a time shifted content can provide a core functionality of the application. It can allow a user to load an online video from multiple external sources in the application and enable real time user interaction around the timeline of the time shifted contents.

As illustrated in the real time services architecture of the application can include services layer application layer not shown data access layer controller layer and presentation layer . In some examples the services layer includes inbound request routing e.g. directing traffic to either real time or synchronous elements of the architecture. In some examples the application layer includes a real time asynchronous web server pubsub services in memory cache and persistent storage. In some examples the data access layer includes custom connection class real time interfaces. In some examples the controller layer includes API Application Programming Interface brokering communication between real time web server and player UI User Interface . In some examples the presentation layer includes player UI client.

In some implementations the application is a web based application. Supporting the real time services architecture can be an infrastructure of web servers providing the services layer and the application Layer where asynchronous and synchronous web servers as well as real time and persistent data stores reside. After a real time connection is established between a user e.g. a player client and the real time web server the user activates all services necessary for using real time services of the application e.g. posting a comment adding a comment as a favorite selecting follow to follow another commenter etc. . When a user initiates an event in the application for example adding a comment the presentation layer client sends a message to the controller layer which directs it to the data access layer based on the class composition of the message. The custom connection class interface in the data access layer uses a real time communication channel to push the message to both the in memory key value store optimized for speed and persistent data storage.

In some implementations time shifted contents with the application s commenting functionalities can be embedded on a website e.g. the server system instead of the server system . Users of the application can use the application to add the application s commenting functionalities to any time shifted contents e.g. online videos . The users can include website owners bloggers or other video publisher users. In some examples the users can enter a link e.g. an online video URL and generate an embed code which can be copied to a website to add a time shifted content e.g. a video with the commenting functionalities of the application. In some examples the application is a plugin. The users can enter a link directing to a time shifted content or select from an existing library of time shifted contents and add a time shifted content with the commenting functionalities of the application to a page on their websites.

In some implementations the application includes an interface . The interface includes a window for playing a time shifted content e.g. a video with a timeline. The interface can include a timeline below the window . The timeline corresponds to the timeline of the time shifted content which can be divided into a plurality of sections corresponding to individual time points of the timeline of the time shifted content . A user can click a specific point in the timeline and jump the time shifted content to a specific time point that corresponds to the specific point of the timeline . The interface can show a total length of the time shifted content and a real time time point that changes with the playing of the time shifted content . In some examples the interface includes a box for inputting comments.

When the time shifted content is playing to a specific time point e.g. 02 32 in of the timeline a specific comment associated with the specific time point is presented together with the specific time point i.e. the presented specific time point . The specific comment is associated with the specific time point in a database. The database associates respective comments to respective time points of the time shifted content. In some implementations the specific comment and the specific time point are presented outside of the window but within the interface .

In some implementations the specific comment and the specific time point are presented within the window as illustrated in . In some examples the specific comment and the specific time point appear directly over the time shifted content . In some examples the specific comment and the specific time point are presented at a specific position in the window and the specific position can be in a top right corner of the window . Earlier comments e.g. comment of the time shifted content can be presented on a right section of the window below the specific position. The right section can have a transparent or partially transparent background such that the time shifted content under the right section is still visible to viewers. In some examples the latest comment e.g. the specific comment is presented on the top of the right section other earlier comments e.g. the comment together with associated time points e.g. time point that are earlier than the specific time point are moved downward to the bottom of the right section and eventually drop off the window e.g. a comment associated with a time point .

In some implementations respective comments of the time shifted content are provided by respective users. The users can be the users of the application and have respective user names and user icons. The user names and the user icons can be associated with the respective comments and respective time points in the database. In some implementations the user names and the user icons are presented together with the associated comments and time points. For example in user name and user icon are presented with the comment and the time point . User name and user icon are presented with the comment and . User name and user icon are presented with the time point and a comment that is dropped off the window .

In some implementations a map is presented in the interface to graphically weighting comments associated with individual time points along the timeline. A point of the map associated with a specific time point is clicked and in response the time shifted content is jumped to the specific time point for playing.

In some examples the map is a heat map graphically illustrates which time points on the timeline have generated the most social conversation. The heat map can augment the timeline to illustrate graphically where the most comments have been made. The user can click around the heat map to forward and rewind the time shifted content and reshuffle the comment made according to a ranking algorithm. Color used and placement on the interface can be customized.

In some implementations when a viewer e.g. a user playing the time shifted content clicks a comment presented in the window e.g. the comment in the application can pause the time shifted content and present the comment and associated replies in a section of the window e.g. the right section as illustrated in . The comment and the associated time point can be presented in the section together with the user name and the user icon . In some examples the viewer can click the presented time point and jump the time shifted content to the time point of the timeline e.g. 02 20 . Conversations associated with the comment can be also presented. For example a reply to the comment is presented below the comment together with the replier s user name . In some implementations interactivities tools including reply for replying to the comment favorite for setting the comment as favorite follow for following the commenter can be presented below the comment . In some examples when a viewer clicks the reply a box can be presented below the reply for receiving a reply. When the reply is posted the posted reply can be associated with the comment in the database associating respective comments to respective time points of the time shifted content.

A request to play a time shifted content is received . In some implementations a user of the application can send a request to play the time shifted content in the window of the application. The request can include a link directing to the time shifted content stored in a content server e.g. the server system of . The server system or the web server where the application is operated can be different from the content server and connected to the content server via a network. The time shifted content can include a timeline and respective sections of the time shifted content are corresponding to respective time points of the timeline.

The time shifted content is played in a window of an application . After receiving the request the application can play the time shifted content in a window of the application e.g. the window of along the timeline.

A first comment and a first time point is presented when the time shifted content is played to the first time point . In some implementations when the time shifted is played to a first time point a first comment is presented together with the first time point. The first comment is associated with the first time point in a database. The database associates respective comments to respective time points of the timeline of the time shifted content.

In some implementations the first comment and the first time point appear over the time shifted content as the time shifted content is played. The first comment and the first time point can be presented at a first position in the window and the first position can be in a top right corner of the window. In some examples one or more earlier comments presented in the window are moved downward to the bottom of the window. The one or more earlier comments are associated with respective earlier time points of the time shifted content in the database and the respective earlier time points are earlier than the first time point.

In some implementations when the time shifted content is played to a second time point of the time shifted content along the timeline a second comment is presented at the first position together with the second time point. The first comment and the first time point are moved to a second position. If there is no comment between the first time point and the second time point along the timeline the second position can be immediately below the first position.

In some implementations the application can determine that the first comment is associated with the first time point of the time shifted content in the database and then present the first comment and the first time point when the time shifted content is played to the first time point along the timeline.

In some implementations one or more comments and respective time points are presented sequentially over the time shifted content in the window as the time shifted content is played to the respective time points along the timeline. The one or more comments are associated with the respective time points in the database.

In some implementations the first comment is provided by a first user of the application and the first user is associated with the first comment in the database. In some examples the first user is associated with a first user name a first user icon and a first user profile in a registration database. In some examples the first user name and the first user icon are presented together with the first comment and the first time point at the first position when the time shifted content is played to the first time point along the timeline.

In some implementations only specific comments are selected to present to a user playing the time shifted content as the time shifted content is played to specific time points associated with the specific comments. The user can be associated with the specific comments in the database.

In some implementations the application allows a user playing the time shifted content to reply to comments presented. The user can browse a comment presented by clicking the comment in the window at a specific time point of the time shifted content. The comment can be provided by a specific user of the application e.g. a user with the user name of . The application can pause playing of the time shifted content and present the comment the specific time point and one or more replies associated with the comment in a portion of the window e.g. the portion of together with a user name of the specific user. The application can receive a reply to the comment store the reply in the database and associate the reply to the comment in the database. The application can present the reply e.g. the reply of and a user name associated with the user e.g. the user name of . In some examples after the reply is posted the application can notify the reply to the specific user by email or message within a server system.

In some implementations the user can click the specific time point presented in the portion and jump the time shifted content to a time point of the timeline ahead of the specific time point by a predefined period. In some examples the predefined period can be 0 second 1 second 2 seconds or 3 seconds. The time shifted content will be played out from the time point including the comment appearing in a comment stream. In some examples the user can resume the playing of the time shifted content by clicking a play button. During playing the comment and the specific time point are presented in the window and the replies associated with the comment can be hidden from viewing.

In some implementations the first comment is set to be visible only to one or more particular users. In some examples a user playing the time shifted content is determined to be not within the one or more particular users and the first comment is hidden from the user as the time shifted content is played. In some examples a user playing the time shifted content is determined to be within the one or more particular users and the first comment is presented as the time shifted content is played to the first time point of the time shifted content along the timeline.

In some implementations the application allows a user to launch private conversations for specific time shifted contents. In addition to participating in public conversations around time shifted contents a user can create a private time shifted content that is accessible only to other users specifically invited to access. Using the private conversations tool on any time shifted contents displayed with the application the user can send invitations to selected friends or other users to participate in a private conversation that is visible only to invitees. Invitees may be individuals who currently have a user account which the application invites via a notification or individuals who do not which the application invites via email .

In some implementations the time shifted content is set to allow conversations from one or more specific users. The conversation can include one or more of comments and replies. In some examples a user playing the time shifted content is determined to be not within the one or more specific users and a conservation from the user is not accepted. In some examples a user playing the time shifted content is determined to be within the one or more specific users a conservation from the user can be accepted.

In some implementations a user can create annotated time shifted content e.g. video using the application. The user can be a website owner a video blogger and other video publisher users. The user can use the application to create annotated videos. Using the application the user can annotate moments of a video with comments that persist for all subsequent views of that video regardless of how other comments on that video are presented.

In some implementations the time shifted content is published by a content provider on a server system e.g. the server system of and one or more of the content provider and an administrator of the server system sets rules for moderating conservation associated with the time shifted content. The conservation can include one or more of comments and replies. In some examples the rules include one or more of lists of blocked allowed words in the comments allowing blocking profanity and settings for how the comments awaiting moderation are displayed and how moderators are notified.

In some implementations conversations around the time shift content e.g. video can be moderated. The application can provide tools to allow website owners video bloggers and other video publisher users to set parameters for conversations around videos they post. These users can moderate comments configure lists of blocked allowed words in comments allow or block profanity and configure settings for how comments awaiting moderation are displayed and how moderators are notified. Users can also create custom moderator rule lists to apply sets of settings to groups of videos they publish.

In some implementations a ranking score is determined for each comment associated with respective time point of the time shifted content in the database. The ranking score can determine where the comment is ranked. Based on the ranking score the comment associated with the respective time point of the time shifted content is presented. In some implementations a specific user can be determined as a star commenter and high ranking scores for specific comments or and replies provided by the specific user can be set. In some examples only the comment with the highest ranking score among multiple comments associated with the respective time point is presented as the time shifted content is played. In some examples the ranking score for each comment can be determined based on an algorithm.

In some implementations the algorithm uses a point scoring formula to decide which comment appears at most relevant time while the user views the time shifted content. The algorithm can create a ranking score based on one or more of the current time point in the timeline the number of comments in a comments thread a date stamp of the thread a total content length in seconds and total comments for the entire time shifted content.

In some implementations comments embedded within the timeline of a given video may be more or less likely to display for a subsequent user depending on a number of factors determined by an algorithm. For example if multiple top level comments have been added at a time point 03 32 of a given video subsequent users will not see all comments the algorithm determines which comment to display for a given user. Users such as website owners video bloggers and other video publisher users of the application have an option to designate certain users as star commenters. Comments from these designated star commenters appear for all subsequent users regardless of what the algorithm dictates would otherwise display.

In some implementations reports can be generated to detail behavior of users associated with comments replies of one or more time shifted contents in the database. The users can be one or more of commenters providing the comments and content publishers providing the one or more time shifted contents.

In some implementations the application provides tools for website owners video bloggers and other video publisher users to generate reports detailing behavior of commenters around the videos they publish and across multiple videos on their site.

In some implementations based on a criteria contents can be determined to be relevant to a given user of the application and in response the contents can be provided to the given user. In some examples the contents include one or more of time shifted contents comments or and replies associated with specific time shifted contents websites and other users profiles. In some examples the criteria is based on one or more of social interactivities of the given user preferences of the given user and behavior of the given user. In some examples an algorithm can be used to select and display relevant comments by corresponding user dialogue acts e.g. questions replies with content archetypes e.g. educational social Q A .

In some implementations the application can discover new conversations for users. The application can include a logic that identifies other conversations and the time shifted content around which those conversations exist. Using social interactivity functions of the application such as reply favorite follow e.g. the reply the favorite the follow of as well as tracking user preferences and behavior the application can provide tailored recommendations to the user of other conversations that would be of interest to the user. Those conversations may be embedded on any website such as a website on which the user has viewed time shifted contents using the application previously a website which the user has never previously visited and another user s profile page.

In some implementations a user playing the time shifted content can provide a comment at any time point of a timeline as a time shifted content is played in a window of an application as illustrated in .

A time shifted content is played in a window of an application . In some implementations a user can send a request to play the time shifted content in the window of the application. The user can be a registered user of the application or a viewer. In some examples the user can be a content provider providing the time shifted content.

An input of a comment is received when the time shifted content is played to a specific time point . The comment can be provided by the user providing the time shifted content or the user playing the time shifted content. The application can determine that the comment is being input when the time shifted content is played to the specific time point along the timeline. The specific time point can be stored in a database associating respective comments to respective time points of the time shifted content. The application can determine that the comment is completed and the completed comment can be stored in the database. The comment can be associated to the specific time point in the database . In some examples the comment and the specific time point can be associated with the user providing the comment e.g. associated with a user name or and a user icon of the user.

The comment and the specific time point are presented . In some examples the completed comment and the specific time point are presented at a position within the window e.g. in a top right corner of the window as illustrated in . In some examples during the input of the second comment the time shifted content is paused for playing. When the comment is completed the time shifted content resumes playing. In some examples the time shifted content is kept playing during the input of the comment.

Referring now to a schematic diagram of an example computing system is provided. The system can be used for the operations described in association with the implementations described herein. For example the system may be included in any or all of the server components discussed herein. The system includes a processor a memory a storage device and an input output device . Each of the components and are interconnected using a system bus . The processor is capable of processing instructions for execution within the system . In one implementation the processor is a single threaded processor. In another implementation the processor is a multi threaded processor. The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the input output device .

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit. The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device. The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

A number of implementations of the present disclosure have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

