---

title: Network based speed dependent load balancing
abstract: A mobile device mobility state is included in device reporting to a radio access network for mobility event and load balancing purposes. Respective load conditions and respective coverage areas of a first set of devices of a first network and a second set of devices of a second network are analyzed. In addition, a mobility state of a mobile device, a first signal strength associated with the first set of devices, and a second signal strength associated with the second set of devices are also analyzed. The mobility state is a function of a movement pattern of the mobile device and a speed at which the mobile device is being moved. Network traffic of the mobile device is routed to a set of network devices selected from the first set of devices and the second set of devices, as a result of the analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226197&OS=09226197&RS=09226197
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 09226197
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131021
---
The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and also generally to network based speed dependent load balancing.

The use of mobile devices and the resulting mobile traffic has been growing at a very fast pace and the trend shows no signs of stopping. To meet the mobile traffic growth and improve the end user experience mobile service providers are actively looking for mechanisms to improve network efficiency system capacity and end user experience. To meet the demand of higher traffic and to improve the end user experience mobile telecommunications operators are deploying metro cells also referred to as small cells in an attempt to help improve coverage and capacity. Mobile telecommunications operators have also been adding more carriers to meet the traffic demand.

Aspects of the subject disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. However the subject disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein.

The disclosed aspects provide an enabler for intelligent network selection and load balancing between different types of cells e.g. macro cells metro cells and so on within a cellular network. The network selection can be based on cell type mobility state of the user equipment device and optionally other criteria including for example real time network load conditions user equipment device channel quality and other information. Advantages of the various aspects provided herein relate to improvement of an end user experience by choosing proper target cells based on mobility state and cell type in order to reduce unnecessary handovers. Another advantage relates to reducing a number of signaling messages sent by the system which is a result of the reduction of the unnecessary or excessive handovers. Other advantages of the disclosed aspects include but are not limited to improved network efficiency reduced connection failure rate avoidance of unnecessary handovers and improved user experience.

A macro cell is a cell in a wireless communications system that provides radio coverage served by a high power cellular access point or base station and therefore has a large coverage area such as a range of tens of kilometers. A metro cell is a cell in a wireless communications system that provides radio coverage served by a low power cellular access point or base station and therefore has a smaller coverage area than a macro cell. A femto cell is a small low power cellular access point that can be used in a home or small business for example. A femto cell is a subset of a type of cell referred to as small cells which are low powered radio access nodes that operate in licensed spectrum and unlicensed spectrum and have a range of 10 meters to 1 or 2 kilometers for example. A micro cell is a cell in a wireless communications system that is served by a low power access point and covers a limited area e.g. a shopping mall a hotel and so on . A micro cell usually has a coverage area that is larger than the coverage area served by a pico cell. A pico cell is a small access point that can cover a small area e.g. a building and is used to extend coverage of signals to indoor areas and or to add network capacity in areas with dense wireless communications usage.

Wireless communications environment includes one or more macro cells and one or more other types of cells such as one or more small cells deployed within the wireless communications environment and servicing one or more user equipment devices . Each wireless communications network e.g. macro cells and small cells comprises one or more network devices e.g. a set of network devices that operate in conjunction in order to process network traffic for the one or more user equipment devices and . For example macro cells can comprise a set of devices that are macro cell enabled devices. In another example the small cells can include a set of devices that are small cell enabled devices. It is noted that although these networks are described as macro cells and small cells the networks can be other types of cells e.g. metro cells femto cells and so on . Any reference to a particular cell type is used for purposes of discussion and not limitation according to the various aspects.

As illustrated each of the one or more small cells has a corresponding service area . Further each of the one or more macro cells has a corresponding service area . However it should be understood that the wireless communications environment is not limited to this implementation. Instead any number of cells e.g. macro cells small cells femto cells and so on and respective service areas can be deployed within the wireless communications environment . Further the geographic areas or cell coverage area can be any shape and can have any dimensions. Thus the illustrated embodiment should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Further although only five user equipment devices are illustrated any number of user devices can be deployed within the wireless communications environment . A user equipment device may contain some or all of the functionality of a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile wireless terminal device mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal wireless communication device wireless communication apparatus user agent user device or user equipment UE . A mobile device can be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a smart phone a feature phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop a handheld communication device a handheld computing device a netbook a tablet a satellite radio a data card a wireless modem card and or another processing device for communicating over a wireless system. In addition the user equipment devices and or the networks can include functionality as more fully described herein.

In an aspect the macro cells and the small cells can monitor their surrounding radio conditions e.g. by employing respective measurement components . For example each of the macro cells and small cells can determine network traffic load on its respective network by performing a network diagnostic procedure. As an example during a network listen procedure macro cells and small cells can scan their radio environment to determine network performance statistics. Various parameters associated with macro cells and small cells can be detected during the network diagnostic procedure such as but not limited to frequency bands scrambling codes common channel pilot power bandwidth across respective networks universal mobile telecommunications system terrestrial radio access receive signal strength indicator and so on.

In an example scenario user equipment devices can be serviced by networks through one of the macro cells or small cells . As a user equipment device is moved within the wireless communications environment the respective user equipment device might be moved in and out of the coverage area of the associated serving network. For example as a user is sending receiving communications through their respective user equipment device the user might be walking riding in a car riding on a train moving around a densely populated urban area e.g. a large city wherein the movement might cause the user equipment device to be moved between various wireless communications networks. In such cases it is beneficial to route the network traffic e.g. handoff from a serving network to a target network in order to continue the communication e.g. avoid dropped calls .

Depending on location user equipment devices can have the option to connect to any number of networks. In one scenario user equipment device might be handed off e.g. the network traffic of the user equipment device can be routed from the macro cell to the small cell . The small cell might be a good choice for routing of the network traffic of the user equipment device if the device is being moved slowly. However if the user equipment device is being moved at a fast rate the network traffic might be routed e.g. handed off to the small cell and a short time later might need to be routed out of the small cell and into macro cell or small cell .

During either of these two handovers e.g. into the small cell and then into the macro cell or small cell there is a possibility that the connection might be lost e.g. dropped call or that other negative impacts to the user experience could occur e.g. disruption during the communication slow response of data and so on . Therefore in accordance with the disclosed aspects based in part on the device mobility state e.g. speed direction pattern and so forth the small cell in this example might be bypassed and the network traffic of the device routed from macro cell to macro cell skipping or bypassing small cell and or small cell . This bypassing of the small cell can occur even if the small cell has properties that are more desirable than the macro cell e.g. higher power level lower congestion or network traffic and so on which is determined based on the speed at which the user equipment device is being moved. In another example a macro cell might be bypassed and the user traffic of a mobile device might be routed from a small cell or from a macro cell to a small cell. It is noted that although various aspects are discussed with respect of routing traffic from a macro cell to a small cell the disclosed aspects are not limited to this implementation. Instead the network traffic can be routed from a small cell to a macro cell or from a small cell to another small cell or from a macro cell to a macro cell and so on.

In an aspect user equipment devices can connect to any available network based on real time or near real time network condition statistics and mobility state of the respective user equipment device . Continuing with an example scenario user equipment device for example can determine if small cell or macro cell offers a higher quality of experience and user equipment device can connect to the selected small cell for example based in part on a mobility state of the user equipment device . For example if the user equipment device is determined to be moving at a low speed e.g. below a threshold level it might be beneficial to route the traffic of the user equipment device to the small cell . Further to this example user equipment device might determine macro cell offers a higher quality of experience based in part on the device moving at a higher speed e.g. above a threshold level and user equipment device can connect to the selected macro cell based in part on the mobility state of the device . For example the mobility state information can indicate that the user equipment device is moving at a speed that is not conductive to the metro cell type.

In some situations when an option is available where a particular user equipment device can be serviced by either a cellular broadcast server e.g. a macro cell or a Wi Fi access point e.g. a small cell for example the Wi Fi access point might automatically be selected. For example the user equipment device might have user preferences established which indicates that when a Wi Fi network is available network traffic of the user equipment device should be routed to the Wi Fi network. Such user preferences might be established because in some cases there is no associated cost to the user of the user equipment device when a Wi Fi network is utilized as compared to usage of a cellular network. Thus the network traffic of the user equipment device is automatically routed to the Wi Fi network regardless of the load on the Wi Fi network and or other considerations which could result in a negative user experience e.g. dropped communications poor communications and so on .

However according to some aspects discussed herein rather than automatically connecting to a Wi Fi access point other considerations can be utilized to route the network traffic of the user equipment device to the Wi Fi network or to determine that the network traffic should remain on the cellular network and or move to a different cellular network. For example instead of moving to the Wi Fi network automatically when the Wi Fi network is available a comparison is made between the Wi Fi network and a cellular network while also considering the mobility state of the device . For example if the device is moving at a relatively high speed and the parameters of the macro cell and small cell are both within acceptable levels the network traffic of the device might bypass the small cell and be routed to the macro cell . This bypassing of the small cell can reduce the amount of signaling messages because signaling messages are not needed to handoff to the small cell and then shortly thereafter handoff to the macro cell e.g. only one handoff procedure is needed to route the network traffic to the macro cell instead of to the small cell and then to another small cell or to the macro cell .

According to various aspects discussed herein a user equipment device can continuously periodically or based on other temporal conditions receive data indicative of network statistics e.g. traffic load or congestion on the network capability of the network and so on . As network performance changes a user equipment device can determine that at least a portion of its respective network traffic should be routed to a different network. The determination can be made based on real time or real near time network statistics.

In accordance with an implementation the routing of network traffic can be based in part on an access network discovery and selection function policy. The access network discovery and selection function policy can be received from a network server that can be configured to push e.g. broadcast the information to the user equipment device . The network selection policy can include logic that can instruct the user equipment device to select or recommend a network based at least in part on network statistics which can include network conditions and load conditions e.g. network congestion . According to some implementations one or more network collection agents can monitor multiple networks and can periodically continuously e.g. repeatedly push updated network statistic information to the user equipment device . Such periodic and or continuous updates can enable real time or near real time knowledge of the network conditions by the user equipment device .

User equipment devices can communicate with each other and with other elements via a network for instance a wireless network or a wireline network. A network can include broadband wide area networks such as cellular networks local area networks wireless local area networks e.g. Wi Fi and personal area networks such as near field communication networks including BLUETOOTH . Communication across a network can be packet based however radio and frequency amplitude modulation networks can enable communication between communication devices using appropriate analog digital analog converters and other elements. Communication is enabled by hardware elements called transceivers. User equipment devices can have more than one transceiver capable of communicating over different networks. For example a cellular telephone can include a cellular transceiver for communicating with a cellular base station a Wi Fi transceiver for communicating with a Wi Fi network and a BLUETOOTH transceiver for communicating with a BLUETOOTH device. A Wi Fi network is accessible via access points such as wireless routers etc. that communicate with the Wi Fi transceiver to send and receive data. The Wi Fi network can further be connected to the internet or other packet based networks. The bandwidth of a network connection or an access point is a measure of the rate of data transfer and can be expressed as a quantity of data transferred per unit of time. Additionally communication e.g. voice traffic data traffic and so on between one or more components can include wired communications e.g. routed through a backhaul broadband wired network an optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line digital subscriber line coaxial cable and or the like and or radio broadcasts e.g. cellular channels Wi Fi channels satellite channels and or the like . In accordance with some embodiments one or more of the user equipment devices can be capable of simultaneous connection to the networks. For example a user equipment device can be a multi mode device.

A network can include a plurality of elements that host logic for performing tasks on the network. The logic can be hosted on servers according to an aspect. In packet based wide area networks servers may be placed at several logical points on the network. Servers may further be in communication with databases and can enable communication devices to access the contents of a database. Billing servers and application servers are examples of such servers. A server can include several network elements including other servers and can be logically situated anywhere on a service provider s network such as the back end of a cellular network. A server hosts or is in communication with a database hosting an account for a user of a mobile device. The user account includes several attributes for a particular user including a unique identifier of the mobile device s owned by the user relationships with other users application usage location personal settings business rules bank accounts and other information.

As mentioned mobile traffic has been growing at a very fast pace and the trend is continuing. To meet the mobile traffic growth demand and improve the end user experience mobile service providers are actively looking for mechanisms to improve system capacity and end user experience. Deploying metro cells also referred to herein interchangeably as small cells can help to improve coverage and capacity. In addition operators are adding more carriers e.g. in long term evolution LTE to meet the traffic demand. It is noted that although various aspects are described with reference to an LTE network the aspects can be applied to other networks including a 3G network for example.

Network performance and user experience are important to mobile operators. It has been observed that handover e.g. routing of network traffic is a factor impacting voice quality and the user equipment device speed has an impact which at times can be significant on the handover performance. This is even more pronounced in heterogeneous network environments. Metro cells typically have lower output power and smaller coverage as compared to macro cells. As disclosed herein for a given mobile device the most suitable cell for its traffic depends on its mobility state e.g. the speed direction and the pattern the device is moving the received signal level the types of cells macro cell metro cell DAS and so on and the associated radio network congestion situation. For example a user equipment device might be under the coverage of both a macro cell and a metro cell and the user equipment device might be moving e.g. the user is driving in a car at 30 miles per hour . In this example the user equipment device receives a stronger signal level from a metro cell which could be lightly loaded as compared to the macro cell. However given the speed at which the user equipment device is being moved the user equipment device would be better served by the macro cell which can avoid unnecessary handovers and reduce a number of signaling messages sent by the system . However estimating the mobility state from the RAN is a challenging task and conventional solutions do not have the effective solution provided herein. If the network does not have the knowledge of the user equipment device mobility state the network could decide to handover the user equipment device to the metro cell based on the signal level as an effort to perform load balancing. This could lead to more handover events for the initial hand in and later handout after the device moves out of the coverage of the metro cell which increases the amount of signaling needed to perform the multiple handovers. Further some frequency carriers have better performance than other frequency carriers in supporting high mobility users e.g. is better than advanced wireless service AWS band in that sense . Feedback on the mobility state to the network is helpful for both heterogeneous networks HetNet and inter frequency mobility and load balancing.

With continuing reference to the system comprises at least one memory e.g. a memory device that can store computer executable components and instructions. System can also include at least one processor e.g. a processor device communicatively coupled to the at least one memory . Coupling can include various communications including but not limited to direct communications indirect communications wired communications and or wireless communications. The at least one processor can execute or facilitate execution of the computer executable components stored in the at least one memory . The at least one processor can be directly involved in the execution of the computer executable component s according to an aspect. Additionally or alternatively the at least one processor can be indirectly involved in the execution of the computer executable component s . For example the at least one processor can direct one or more components to perform the operations.

It is noted that although one or more computer executable components may be described herein and illustrated as components separate from the at least one memory e.g. operatively connected to memory in accordance with various embodiments the one or more computer executable components could be stored in the at least one memory . Further while various components have been illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that multiple components can be implemented as a single component or a single component can be implemented as multiple components without departing from example embodiments.

System also includes an evaluation manager component that can be configured to analyze various information associated with a user equipment device a source network and one or more target networks or neighbor networks . The information analyzed by the evaluation manager component can include a mobility state of the user equipment device. The mobility state can include information related to whether the user equipment device is stationary or is being moved. The mobility state can also include information as to a speed at which the mobile device is being moved and or a pattern of movement. For example the speed can be classified according to various rankings such as for example low medium and high. In another example the speed can be classified as fast or slow. In a further example the speed can be measured and if at or over a certain level e.g. higher than a predetermined speed the device is considered to be moving quickly and if under the certain level e.g. under the predetermined speed the device is considered to be moving slowly. Further the direction the device is being moved can be analyzed according to an aspect.

Other information that can be analyzed by the evaluation manager component includes the power of each network or cell e.g. source network one or more neighbor or target networks . For example the power of each cell can be measured as absolute power and can be expressed as the power ratio in decibels dB of the measured power referenced to one milliwatt mW . The notation for this power ratio is dBm.

Further information that can be analyzed by the evaluation manager component can include respective load conditions of the networks respective coverage areas of the networks and signal strengths associated with the networks. For example a signal strength threshold is a reference signal received power RSRP over the reference signal subcarriers in a long term evolution LTE implementation. In another example a signal strength threshold can be a reference received signal code power RSCP in a universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS implementation. The respective signal strengths can be represented in a measurement report received from the user equipment device. In addition the mobility state of the user equipment device can be received in the measurement report.

In an example the mobility state of the mobile device can be utilized by the evaluation manager component as a portion of a determination as to which network the network traffic should be route. For example the mobility state information can be used by the evaluation manager component to determine if it is appropriate for the mobile device to connect to a network given the movement or non movement of the mobile device. For example if the mobility state information indicates the mobile device is moving at 60 miles per hour and a metro cell is available it might be decided by the evaluation manager component to forgo connecting to the metro cell based on the relatively fast movement of the mobile device and a prediction that the mobile device will not be within range of a base station operating within the metro cell for a sufficient amount of time to handle voice and or data communications between the mobile device and the metro cell. Alternatively if the mobility state information indicates the mobile device is stationary and a metro cell is available it can be decided by the evaluation manager component to connect to the metro cell based upon the stationary state of the mobile device and the prediction that the mobile device will be within range of the metro cell for a sufficient amount of time to handle voice and or data communications between the mobile device and the metro cell.

System also includes a routing manager component that can be configured to route network traffic of the mobile device to a network selected from a set of target networks. According to some aspects one or more potential target networks are bypassed. For example if the user equipment device is being moved at a relatively fast speed small cells might be bypassed and the network traffic of the user equipment device might be moved to a macro cell. In another example if the user equipment device is being moved in a direction that indicates the user equipment device will enter and exit the small cell in a short amount of time the small cell can be bypassed and the network traffic of the device routed to the macro cell.

In this example the user equipment device is being moved in the direction indicated by arrow and at a speed of 35 miles per hour. Further for this example the following assumptions related to the user equipment device radio frequency RF environment apply and it is assumed that these conditions stay constant for purposes of this example. The first cell macro cell has a power of 105 dBm. The second cell metro cell has a power of 90 dBm. Further the third cell macro cell has a power of 95 dBm. Additionally in this example the handover threshold plus hysteresis is equal to 5 dB the TimeToTrigger TTT is 1 second note both hysteresis and TTT can be mobility state dependent .

The user equipment device detects its mobility state as discussed herein which is 35 miles per hour in this example which can be considered as a medium speed according to some implementations. An A5 or A3 event can be triggered which indicates the first cell is below an acceptable threshold and that the second cell and or the third cell are better than the first cell by 5 dB e.g. the RSRP from the first cell the second cell and the third cell are reported .

As per various aspects disclosed herein the user equipment mobility state medium in this example is added to the A3 A5 measurement report. Adding the mobility state to the measurement report provides the network e.g. current service network first cell with knowledge of the user equipment device mobility state. According to some implementations a direction or pattern in which the user equipment device is moving also can be included in the measurement report.

Further to this example the eNB behavior is that the first cell exchanges cell type information with its neighbors e.g. the second cell and the third cell . According to an implementation the cell type information can be exchanged via X2 however other manners of exchanging the information could be utilized and the various aspects are not limited to this example.

In an implementation the cell type information can identify a cell or network as being of a particular cell type. The cell type information can include an explicit specification of a cell type of one or more networks. For example a cell information message can include text that explicitly names the cell type for a given network.

As another example the cell information message might include a code or identifier by which the cell type can be ascertained. For example the system may include a table or other data structure by which to cross reference cell type codes or identifiers with cell types. In an example non limiting implementation the cell type can be associated with a particular identity or range of identities. For example an ID range of 100 49 999 may be assigned to macro cells and a range of 40 000 200 000 may be assigned to metro cells and so forth.

The cell information message can include any message that is capable of being transmitted over a radio air interface. Further the cell information message can be sent using any physical transport and or logical channels. These channel types are known and therefore will not be described in further detail herein.

At about the same time as the first cell receives the A3 A5 measurement repot the first cell e.g. current serving cell evaluates the information. As indicated in the assumptions provided above for this example the first cell determines that both the second cell and the third cell have measurement levels e.g. the corresponding RSRP levels that are at or above an acceptable threshold. Further evaluation by the first cell results in discarding or disregarding the second cell as a target cell. The determination to discard the second cell is based on the mobility state of the user equipment device e.g. moving at a medium speed level and the cell type e.g. metro cell . Thus the second cell is removed from consideration even though the second cell is considered the better neighbor based on a consideration between the second cell and the third cell . This is because the speed at which the user equipment device is being moved would cause the user equipment device to move into and out of the coverage area of the second cell relatively quickly. Therefore in this example the third cell is chosen because the third cell meets the handover threshold 5 dB medium. Thus the decision is that the target cell is the third cell and the network traffic of the user equipment device can be routed e.g. handed off from the first cell and routed to e.g. handed into the third cell .

By analyzing information related to the mobility state of the user equipment device a decision can be made to bypass one or more smaller cells and prefer a larger cell s e.g. a macro cell and or to bypass one or more larger cells and prefer a small cell s . The avoidance of unnecessary handovers and or extra handovers e.g. quickly moving the traffic into and out of a smaller cell can improve network efficiency avoid unnecessary handovers and reduce the amount of signaling messages needed to handover the user equipment device e.g. the user traffic of the user equipment device . This can also reduce a connection failure rate and improve the user experience.

In some implementations the system can be implemented by the source network e.g. the system components are located within the source network or are implemented by one or more devices of a source network . In this situation the information related to the source network might already be known by the evaluation manager component . For example the evaluation manager component might already have knowledge related to the type of network for which the source network is configured e.g. macro cell femto cell metro cell and so on . In various implementations the source network is a macro network e.g. comprises a set of devices that are macro cell or macro network enabled devices . However in some implementations the source network can be a small cell network e.g. small cell micro cell femto cell and so on .

The receiver component can also be configured to receive load condition s of each of the target networks . For example there might be a single target network or according to some implementations there might be two or more target networks . The two or more target networks might be different types of networks e.g. macro network metro network pico network and so on . Further information related to the coverage area of each of the target networks can also be obtained by the receiver component .

The receiver component also can be configured to receive from the user equipment device a mobility report. The mobility report can include a mobility state of the user equipment device . The mobility state is a function of a movement pattern of the user equipment device and a speed at which the user equipment device is being moved. For example the movement pattern can be represented by a set of pattern data and the speed can be represented by speed data. Various techniques can be utilized by the user equipment device to determine its mobility state. According to an aspect techniques for performing speed detection and radio selection using accelerometers are described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 385 917 entitled Radio Selection Employing Transit Data Determined from Kinetic Energy Generation which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

According to some implementations the user equipment device transmits measurement report data which is received by the receiver component . The measurement report data can include the mobility state of the user equipment device and respective signal strengths associated with each of the target networks . For example the measurement report might indicate that a signal strength of the current serving cell e.g. source cell has fallen below an acceptable level. The measurement report might also indicate that the signal strength as measured by the user equipment device of the one or more target cells is above or meets an acceptable level. It is noted that signal strength can be an entry level criteria such that a neighbor cell e.g. potential target cell is not even considered if its signal strength is not at an acceptable level.

Based on the measurement report received from the user equipment device and the information received from the source network and target networks a determination is made whether to route user traffic of the user equipment device from the source network and if so which target network should be chosen.

According to an implementation a network decision component can be configured to utilize the information received from the target networks including network traffic load information and user equipment device to determine which network the user equipment device should connect to. The network decision component can be an application program that includes computer executable instruction that when executed by the one or more processors causes the system to analyze the received information and to instruct the user equipment device to connect to the selected network.

In an example the network traffic or load information received from the various networks can include historic network load information which is load information obtained based upon network load experienced by the respective network in the past or otherwise in non real time. According to some aspects the historic network load information is used by the network decision component and or evaluation manager component to identify one or more network load trends over a specified period of time. This trending network load information can be used to predict times during which the network load is favorable as well as the times during which the network load will not be favorable for supporting communications between the user equipment device and the respective target network .

In another example the network traffic information includes current network load information which is data that is obtained based upon a network load experienced by the network. Real time in this context is the actual time during which a network load is experienced by the network. Near real time in this context is the actual time during which a network load is experienced by the base station plus a delay on the order of seconds minutes or any other order of magnitude thereof for example. What constitutes near real time network load information as compared to historic network load information can be defined by a service provider providing service to the network.

The network load information can include a number of active devices e.g. devices currently engaged in a call or data session . In other embodiments the load information includes a number of idle devices e.g. devices currently camped on a given cell . The load information can include active load information and idle load information which can be utilized separately or together to select a target network .

According to some aspects the network decision component can utilize additional information to select the particular network. This information can include but is not limited to one or more policies and or one or more user profiles. A policy can be one or more settings one or more configurations one or more rules and so forth that define at least in part one or more courses of action in view of one or more conditions to be used by the network decision component to decide which target network the user equipment device should be connected to. In some aspects a policy includes one or more rules that specific one or more if then conditions for handling a particular situation such as redirecting network traffic based upon a speed at which the user equipment device is being moved. In accordance with some aspects a policy can include one or more matrices of cause and effect conditions tables of actions and so on for responding to or dealing with various stimuli include network conditions mobile device mobility state and so on.

Also included in a system is an evaluation manager component that analyzes transmit information received from and or related to a first set of devices of a first network a second set of devices of a second network and subsequent sets of devices of subsequent networks and a mobile device . For example a receiver component can obtain a measurement report from the mobile device which can be reported under a connected condition. The measurement report can include a mobility state of the mobile device . The mobility state can be a function of a movement pattern of the mobile device and a speed at which the mobile device is being moved.

According to an implementation the mobile device can comprise a transit analysis component that can be configured to analyze transit data of the mobile device to obtain a mobility state of the mobile device . For example the transit analysis component can determine that the mobile device is being moved rapidly based in part on a frequency component associated with the movement. In an example a frequency can be associated with train travel. Further to this example movement of the mobile device or a pattern of the movement indicates a frequency associated with a train crossing track welds acceleration deceleration of a train from into a station swaying of the train car during transit and so forth.

In another example an irregular sinusoidal nature of a frequency can indicate that the mobile device is being moved but that such movement would not result in handoffs between networks. For example the irregular sinusoidal nature can indicate foot tapping a leg bouncing while the user is seated and so on. As another example the gait of the user walking with the mobile device can be regular and the rise and fall of the body can be periodic. As a further example the high frequency vibrations of a turbine engine e.g. a jet engine can produce recognizable frequency patterns.

Other considerations that can be taken into account by the transit analysis component include the data source information. Such information can include a model type brand date of manufacture aging or environmental characteristics and so on. Other information includes a data type such as voltage current temporal numeric ratio instant historical and so on. Also considered can be a data acquisition window data acquisition environment historic data user preferences user defined data data reference frame s multiple data sources and so on.

The transit analysis component can utilize various motion sensors including but not limited to global positioning system GPS data accelerometers speed calculations between access points for given time intervals and so on. Further the transit analysis component can analyze information associated with the various motion sensors to determine close matches or perfect matches between known or inferred patterns and accessible mobile device transit patterns.

The measurement report can also include signal strengths measured by the mobile device . For example the signal strengths included in the measurement report can include a first signal strength associated with the first set of devices of the first network . Other single strengths included in the measurement report can include a second signal strength associated with the second set of devices of the second network as well as other or subsequent signal strengths associated with additional networks that are under consideration.

According to an implementation the mobile device can generate feedback related to a preferred network of the target networks to which the mobile device should connect. The feedback can be transmitted to the receiver component and can be utilized by the evaluation manager component and or network decision component to make the network decision.

Each of the first network and the second network as well as other networks can report their respective cell types to the system such as in a cell broadcast message. In an example the neighbor cell information can be reported through a system information block SIB however other manners of reporting the information can be utilized. In some aspects the cell broadcast message can be included in a SIB which can contain other information. The SIB may be a new SIB configured to include the network traffic load information. Alternatively the SIB can be an existing SIB that has been modified to include the network traffic load information.

The respective cell types as well as other information can be retained in one or more data stores . According to an implementation the one or more data stores can be integrated with the evaluation manager component and or memory . In another implementation the one or more data stores can be located external to but accessible by the evaluation manager component and or memory . It is noted that a data store can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile memory and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory which can operate as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation random access memory is available in many forms such as static random access memory dynamic random access memory synchronous dynamic random access memory double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory enhanced synchronous dynamic random access memory Synchlink dynamic random access memory and direct Rambus random access memory. The memory e.g. data stores databases and so on of the various disclosed aspects is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

According to an implementation prior to the evaluation manager component analyzing the various information a threshold determination component ascertains whether the reported signal strengths meet or exceed a threshold level. For example a signal strength of a source network is compared to one or more neighbor networks or target networks . If the reported signal strength of a target network is not at least as good as the source network or does not exceed the reported signal strength of the source network that particular target network is removed from consideration and the network traffic of the mobile device is not routed to that network by the routing manager component . However if the reported signal strength of a network meets the entry level criteria further analysis of that network is considered in combination with the mobility state of the mobile device .

In an example if a target network is a metro cell and the mobile device is moving too fast that metro cell will not be a good target network for the device traffic to move to even though that small cell might have a good radio frequency RF condition and might be lightly loaded e.g. has a low congestion level . This is because if the mobile device is moving too fast and the network traffic of the mobile device is moved to that small cell it is likely that the mobile device will move out of the coverage area of that small cell soon after the network traffic is handed off to that small cell. In this case the network traffic will have to be handed out of the small cell again which can have a negative performance impact due to the multiple unnecessary handoffs.

According to some implementations the various aspects disclosed herein can utilize an artificial intelligence component not shown which can facilitate automating one or more features in accordance with the disclosed aspects. As discussed herein the disclosed aspects can be utilized to route user traffic of a mobile device to a target network such that network efficiencies can be improved and an amount of signaling messages being transmitted is reduced as well as other advantages as compared to conventional systems. The disclosed aspects in connection with network selection and load balancing can employ various artificial intelligence based schemes for carrying out various aspects thereof. For example a process for receiving network congestion conditions and parameters and a mobility state of a mobile device comparing the network congestion conditions and parameters with one or more usage and one or more movement parameters of a user equipment device can be facilitated with an example automatic classifier system and process.

An example classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that can be automatically performed. In the case of communication systems for example attributes can be types of radio networks congestion thresholds and the classes can be a type of traffic usage e.g. voice traffic data traffic short message service traffic and so on the amount of network traffic usage the expected location of a user equipment device based on a movement parameter the speed at which the mobile device is being moved and so on.

A support vector machine is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The support vector machine can operate by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also may be inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

The disclosed aspects can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing usage of the user equipment device by observing a movement pattern of the user equipment device and so on . For example support vector machines can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to ascertaining network traffic should be routed from a source network to a target network determining the user equipment device is likely to be moved into the coverage area of one or more networks determining one or more target networks should be bypassed e.g. not used as the target network even though parameters associated with the network are better than other networks that are not bypassed and so forth. Further functions can include but are not limited to gathering information e.g. network traffic usage information network congestion information from a group of devices e.g. a set of network devices aggregating the data gathered from the subject user equipment device comparing two or more networks in conjunction with the device mobility state to determine the most appropriate network for routing of the network traffic and so on. The criteria can include but is not limited to a type of network patterns associated with mobile device usage and movement and so on.

In view of the example systems shown and described herein methods that may be implemented in accordance with the one or more of the disclosed aspects will be better understood with reference to the following flow charts. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood that the disclosed aspects are not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter. It is noted that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware in local cloud and or virtualized environment a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it is also noted that the methods disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. The various methods disclosed herein can be performed by a system comprising at least one processor and or one or more network devices comprising at least one processor.

The mobility state of the mobile device is a function of a movement pattern of the mobile device and a speed at which the mobile device is being moved. A mobility parameter can relate to whether the user equipment device is stationary or is moving and if moving a speed at which the user equipment device is being moved. For example the user equipment device might be stationary e.g. a user of the user equipment device is sitting at her desk . In another example the user equipment device might be moved and traveling at any of a variety of different speeds which can be a function of the mode of transportation e.g. walking riding a bicycle in a car on a train in an airplane and so on . Further the speed might change over time. For example the user might be traveling in a car and then get out of the car and walk the remaining distance until arriving at her destination.

Another parameter relates to the direction that the user equipment device is being moved. The direction can be a horizontal direction which can be associated with cardinal directions or cardinal points e.g. north south east west or intermediate points . Further the direction can include an altitude or changes in the height of the user equipment device. For example the user equipment device might be traveling in an elevator and a range of one network might not reach all points along that altitude e.g. connectivity is only enabled at the higher locations .

According to an implementation the mobility state the first signal strength and the second signal strength are represented in measurement report data received from the mobile device at . The method also can include receiving respective network parameters at . The network parameters can include cell type information related to the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices. A first cell type of the first set of network devices can be different from a second cell type of the second set of network devices. The parameters received can also include respective network congestion levels capability of the network geographic coverage area information and so on. According to an aspect a network traffic coverage area of the second set of devices at least partially overlaps another network traffic coverage area of the first set of devices.

According to an implementation the analysis can include determining the speed at which the mobile device is being moved satisfies a first speed level condition and a micro cell is chosen as a potential target cell to route the network traffic. For example if the mobile device is moving slowly or below a first speed level condition a micro cell might be an appropriate choice for routing of the network traffic.

According to a further implementation the analysis can include determining the speed at which the mobile device is being moved satisfies a second speed level condition. For example the mobile device might be moving quickly and based on the quick movement it is contemplated that the mobile device will quickly move into and out of the coverage area of a micro cell. Further to this aspect the method can include bypassing the micro cell as a potential target cell to route the network traffic and choosing a metro cell as the potential target cell to route the network traffic.

In an implementation if a neighbor or target network does not meet a certain threshold parameter that network is removed from consideration for routing of the mobile device traffic. For example a signal strength of the target network can be analyzed and if the signal strength is below a predefined level the target network is disregarded e.g. not including in the network analysis .

At network traffic of the mobile device is routed to a set of network devices selected from the first set of devices and the second set of devices as a result of the analyzing. According to an implementation the routing includes reducing a number of signaling messages sent by the system. In an example the first set of devices are micro cell enabled devices and the second set of devices are macro cell enabled devices. Further to this example reducing the number of signaling messages sent comprises bypassing the first set of devices and the routing comprises routing the mobile device to the second set of devices.

At the user equipment device determines its mobility state. For example the user equipment device can determine whether it is static e.g. not moving moving at a slow speed moving at a medium speed or moving at a fast speed. The user equipment device can also determine its moving pattern. Various techniques can be utilized by the user equipment device to determine its mobility state and will not be described herein for purposes of simplicity.

At the user equipment device informs the serving cell that a neighbor cell is suitable for handover. The information provided the serving cell also includes the mobility state of the user equipment device. For example using various processes for load balancing neighbor cell information is given by the serving eNB via SIB or other means. After receiving this information the user equipment device triggers the reporting event to inform the serving cell about the neighbor cell. The determination by the user equipment device can be based on the RSRP RSRQ level. The serving cell makes a decision whether to move the user equipment device to the target cell.

The network traffic of the user equipment device is routed to the target cell identified by the user equipment device or another cell selected by the eNB at . For example based on the cell types of the serving cell and the neighboring cells their load conditions and the mobility state of the devices the serving RAN node e.g. eNB can make the best decision on device mobility handover or whether to move a device to a target cell and if so which target cell.

Therefore the disclosed aspects can reduce an amount of signaling required by choosing a proper cell to which network traffic of the user equipment device should be routed wherein the choice is based in part on a mobility state of the user equipment device. Other advantages can include improving a user experience and reducing communication failures which might occur during handover e.g. routing of network traffic between cells .

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to facilitate network selection and load balancing is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and include the illustrative wireless environment however it is noted that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It is noted that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or eNodeBs and . Any two eNodeBs can be considered an eNodeB site pair. It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. eNode B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network. It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for universal mobile telecommunication system based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface universal mobile telecommunication system Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched based e.g. voice and data and packet switched e.g. Internet protocol frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any electromagnetic frequency bands licensed by the service provider network e.g. personal communication services advanced wireless services general wireless communications service and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. . Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system global system for mobile communication mobile network platform can be embodied in the service provider network .

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components such as T1 E1 phone line T3 DS3 line a digital subscriber line either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric digital subscriber line an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight or non line of sight links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for universal mobile telecommunication system based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It is noted that while exemplary wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in micro cells pico cells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based equipment related to access to a network.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of access equipment and or software related to access of a network e.g. base station wireless access point femto cell access point and so forth that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed aspects.

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments B is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access equipment and or software related to access of a network and can be controlled by a monitor component and an antenna component . Monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which can include electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and can convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that can facilitate manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Multiplexer demultiplexer can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing frequency division multiplexing orthogonal frequency division multiplexing code division multiplexing space division multiplexing. In addition multiplexer demultiplexer component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so forth .

A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation with M a positive integer phase shift keying and so forth .

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access equipment and or software . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access equipment and or software through for example monitor component antenna component and one or more components therein. Additionally access equipment and or software can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access equipment and or software or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be a liquid crystal display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or through touch gestures which can cause access equipment and or software to receive external commands e.g. restart operation .

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access equipment and or software to a service provider network not shown that can include one or more cellular technologies e.g. third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system global system for mobile communication and so on through backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access equipment and or software and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and so on. Moreover processor can be functionally connected through data system or an address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access equipment and or software memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access equipment and or software sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access equipment and or software radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access equipment and or software .

As is employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device including but not limited to including single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit a digital signal processor a field programmable gate array a programmable logic controller a complex programmable logic device a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components including the memory. It is noted that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation random access memory is available in many forms such as synchronous random access memory dynamic random access memory synchronous dynamic random access memory double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory enhanced synchronous dynamic random access memory Synchlink dynamic random access memory and direct Rambus random access memory. Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. For example in memory such as at least one memory there can be software which can instruct a processor such as at least one processor to perform various actions. The processor can be configured to execute the instructions in order to implement the analysis of monitoring an uplink power level detecting the uplink power level is at or above a threshold level and or disable transmission of at least one message as a result of the monitored uplink power level.

Moreover those skilled in the art will understand that the various aspects can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers base stations hand held computing devices or user equipment such as a tablet phone watch and so forth processor based computers systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to industrial standard architecture micro channel architecture extended industrial standard architecture intelligent drive electronics video electronics standards association local bus peripheral component interconnect card bus universal serial bus advanced graphics port personal computer memory card international association bus Firewire institute of electrical and electronics engineers and small computer systems interface.

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation random access memory is available in many forms such as dynamic random access memory synchronous random access memory synchronous dynamic random access memory double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory enhanced synchronous dynamic random access memory Synchlink dynamic random access memory and direct Rambus random access memory direct Rambus dynamic random access memory and Rambus dynamic random access memory.

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. In an implementation provided is a non transitory or tangible computer readable storage device storing executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system comprising a processor to perform operations. The operations can include analyzing respective load conditions and respective coverage areas of a first set of devices of a first network and a second set of devices of a second network a mobility state of a mobile device a first signal strength associated with the first set of devices and a second signal strength associated with the second set of devices. The mobility state is a function of pattern data representing a movement pattern of the mobile device and speed data representing the speed at which the mobile device is being moved. The operations can also include routing network traffic of the mobile device to a set of network devices selected from the first set of devices and the second set of devices as a result of the analyzing.

According to an implementation the routing comprises reducing a number of signaling messages sent by the system. Further to this implementation the first set of devices are micro cell enabled devices and the second set of devices are macro cell enabled devices and reducing the number of signaling messages sent comprises bypassing the first set of devices and the routing comprises routing the mobile device to the second set of devices.

It is to be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications can take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information for example through interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus through interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus. Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a universal serial bus port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices such as monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It is also noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network computer a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only one memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected through communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks and wide area networks. Local area network technologies include fiber distributed data interface copper distributed data interface Ethernet token ring and the like. Wide area network technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks such as integrated services digital networks and variations thereon packet switching networks and digital subscriber lines.

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the aspects described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi worldwide interoperability for microwave access Enhanced gateway general packet radio service third generation partnership project long term evolution third generation partnership project ultra mobile broadband third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system high speed packet access high speed downlink packet access high speed uplink packet access global system for mobile communication edge radio access network universal mobile telecommunication system terrestrial radio access network long term evolution advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. global system for mobile communication. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as Internet protocol television can exploit aspect or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including the disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc digital versatile disc blu ray disc . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to random access memory read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory flash memory or other memory technology compact disk read only memory digital versatile disk or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output components as well as associated processor application or application programming interface components.

The term set subset or the like as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein . Thus a set subset or the like includes one or more elements or periods for example. As an illustration a set of periods includes one or more periods a set of transmissions includes one or more transmissions a set of resources includes one or more resources a set of messages includes one or more messages and so forth.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

