---

title: Methods of fabricating thick semi-insulating or insulating epitaxial gallium nitride layers
abstract: Semiconductor device structures and methods of fabricating semiconductor devices structures are provided that include a semi-insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer on a conductive semiconductor substrate and/or a conductive layer. The semi-insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer has a thickness of at least about 4 μm. GaN semiconductor device structures and methods of fabricating GaN semiconductor device structures are also provided that include an electrically conductive SiC substrate and an insulating or semi-insulating GaN epitaxial layer on the conductive SiC substrate. The GaN epitaxial layer has a thickness of at least about 4 μm. GaN semiconductor device structures and methods of fabricating GaN semiconductor device structures are also provided that include an electrically conductive GaN substrate, an insulating or semi-insulating GaN epitaxial layer on the conductive GaN substrate, a GaN based semiconductor device on the GaN epitaxial layer and a via hole and corresponding via metal in the via hole that extends through layers of the GaN based semiconductor device and the GaN epitaxial layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09224596&OS=09224596&RS=09224596
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09224596
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130826
---
The present invention was developed with Government support under contract number N00014 02 C 0306 awarded by the United States Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 103 117 filed Apr. 11 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 575 651 the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to semiconductor devices and more particularly to Group III Nitride semiconductor devices.

Materials such as silicon Si and gallium arsenide GaAs have found wide application in semiconductor devices for radio frequency RF applications. However these more familiar semiconductor materials may not be well suited for higher power because of their relatively small bandgaps e.g. 1.12 eV for Si and 1.42 for GaAs at room temperature and or relatively small breakdown voltages.

In light of the difficulties presented by Si and GaAs interest in high power and or high frequency applications and devices has turned to wide bandgap semiconductor materials such as silicon carbide 2.996 eV for alpha SiC at room temperature and the Group III nitrides e.g. 3.36 eV for GaN at room temperature . These materials typically have higher electric field breakdown strengths than gallium arsenide GaN and GaN typically has better electron transport properties than silicon.

A device of particular interest for high power and or high frequency applications is the High Electron Mobility Transistor HEMT which in certain cases where doping is provided is also known as a modulation doped field effect transistor MODFET . These devices may offer operational advantages under a number of circumstances because a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG is formed at the heterojunction of two semiconductor materials with different bandgap energies and where the smaller bandgap material has a higher electron affinity. The 2DEG is an accumulation layer in the undoped unintentionally doped smaller bandgap material and can contain a very high sheet electron concentration in excess of for example 10carriers cm. Unlike electrons in conventional bulk doped devices electrons in 2DEG may have higher mobilities due to reduced ion impurity scattering.

This combination of high carrier concentration and high carrier mobility can give the HEMT a very large transconductance and may provide a strong performance advantage over metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs for high frequency applications.

High electron mobility transistors fabricated in the gallium nitride aluminum gallium nitride GaN AlGaN material system can generate large amounts of RF power because of the combination of material characteristics that includes the aforementioned high breakdown fields their wide bandgaps large conduction band offset and or high saturated electron drift velocity. A major portion of the electrons in the 2DEG is attributed to polarization in the AlGaN.

HEMTs in the GaN AlGaN system have already been demonstrated. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 192 987 and 5 296 395 describe AlGaN GaN HEMT structures and methods of manufacture. U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 793 to Sheppard et al. which is commonly assigned and is incorporated herein by reference describes a HEMT device having a semi insulating silicon carbide substrate an aluminum nitride buffer layer on the substrate an insulating gallium nitride layer on the buffer layer an aluminum gallium nitride barrier layer on the gallium nitride layer and a passivation layer on the aluminum gallium nitride active structure.

Conventional Group III nitride HEMTs have been fabricated using heteroepitaxial growth for example HEMTs grown on SiC sapphire AlN or Si substrates. A HEMT grown on a thick AlN layer deposited by hydride vapor phase epitaxy HVPE on n type SiC has been described. However the growth of a thick AlN layer may require two different growth steps in two different reactors one for growing the AlN layer and one for growing the GaN based HEMT layers on the AlN layer.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide semiconductor device structures and methods of fabricating semiconductor devices structures that include a conductive semiconductor substrate and a semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer on the semiconductor substrate. The semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer has a thickness of at least about 4 m.

In some embodiments the GaN epitaxial layer has a thickness of at least about 8 m and in some embodiments at least about 10 m. The semiconductor substrate may comprise conductive SiC and or GaN. The GaN epitaxial layer may have a resistivity of at least about 10 cm.

In some embodiments of the present invention the GaN epitaxial layer has an isolation voltage of at least about 50V and in further embodiments the GaN epitaxial layer has an isolation voltage of at least about 100V.

Additional embodiments of the present invention include a GaN based semiconductor device on the GaN epitaxial layer. A via hole and corresponding via metal in the via hole that extends through layers of the GaN based semiconductor device and the GaN epitaxial layer may also be provided. In further embodiments the substrate is an insulating or semi insulating substrate and the via hole and via metal extend through the substrate. In other embodiments the substrate comprises a conductive substrate the via hole and via metal extend to the substrate and the via metal provides an ohmic contact to the substrate. A region of higher doping concentration may also be provided in the substrate beneath the via.

In further embodiments of the present invention the substrate comprises a conductive substrate and the device structure further comprises a conductive buffer layer disposed between the substrate and the GaN epitaxial layer. The via hole and the via metal may extend to the conductive buffer layer and the via metal may provide an ohmic contact to the conductive buffer layer. An etch stop layer may also be disposed between the conductive buffer layer and the GaN epitaxial layer.

In particular embodiments of the present invention the conductive buffer layer comprises a first conductive layer of a first conductivity type on the substrate and a second conductive layer of a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type on the first conductive layer and disposed between the first conductive layer and the GaN epitaxial layer. The via hole and the via metal may extend through the second conductive layer to the first conductive layer.

In yet further embodiments of the present invention the substrate comprises a conductive substrate and the device structure further comprises a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG structure disposed between the substrate and the GaN epitaxial layer. The 2DEG structure may include multiple 2DEG layers.

In additional embodiments of the present invention the GaN epitaxial layer is doped with a deep level transition metal dopant. The GaN epitaxial layer may be doped with Fe Co Mn Cr V and or Ni. The concentration of the deep level transition metal dopant may be at least about 1 10cm.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide GaN semiconductor device structures and methods of fabricating GaN semiconductor device structures that include a semiconductor substrate an insulating or semi insulating GaN epitaxial layer on the semiconductor substrate having a thickness of at least 4 m and a conductive semiconductor layer disposed between the semiconductor substrate and the insulating or semi insulating GaN epitaxial layer.

In further embodiments the GaN epitaxial layer has a thickness of at least about 8 m and in some embodiments a thickness of at least about 10 m. The semiconductor substrate may be an insulating or semi insulating semiconductor substrate. In some embodiments the substrate comprises silicon carbide and or sapphire. In other embodiments the substrate comprises diamond. In some embodiments the semiconductor substrate comprises an electrically conductive substrate. The electrically conductive substrate may comprise silicon carbide and or diamond.

In further embodiments of the present invention the conductive semiconductor layer comprises conductive SiC conductive diamond SiN and or a conductive GaN based semiconductor material.

In additional embodiments of the present invention a GaN based semiconductor device is provided on the GaN epitaxial layer. A via hole and corresponding via metal in the via hole may extend through layers of the GaN based semiconductor device and the GaN epitaxial layer. The via hole and via metal extend to the substrate and the via metal provides an ohmic contact to the substrate. In some embodiments the via hole and the via metal extend to the conductive semiconductor layer and the via metal provides an ohmic contact to the conductive semiconductor layer.

In further embodiments the conductive semiconductor layer comprises a first conductive layer of a first conductivity type on the substrate and a second conductive layer of a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type on the first conductive layer and disposed between the first conductive layer and the GaN epitaxial layer. The via hole and the via metal may extend through the second conductive layer to the first conductive layer.

In still further embodiments of the present invention an etch stop layer is disposed between the conductive semiconductor layer and the GaN epitaxial layer.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide GaN semiconductor device structures and methods of fabricating GaN semiconductor device structures that include an electrically conductive SiC substrate and an insulating or semi insulating GaN epitaxial layer on the conductive SiC substrate. The GaN epitaxial layer has a thickness of at least about 4 m.

In some embodiments the GaN based epitaxial layer has a thickness of at least about 8 m and in some embodiments at least about 10 The GaN epitaxial layer may have a resistivity of at least about 10 cm. The GaN epitaxial layer may have an isolation voltage of at least about 50V and in some embodiments at least about 100V.

In additional embodiments of the present invention the GaN based epitaxial layer is doped with a deep level transition metal dopant. The GaN epitaxial layer may be doped with Fe Co Mn Cr V and or Ni. The concentration of the deep level transition metal dopant may be at least about 1 10cm. In particular embodiments of the present invention the GaN epitaxial layer is GaN doped with Fe.

In further embodiments of the present invention the semiconductor device structure includes a conductive buffer layer disposed between the conductive SiC substrate and the GaN epitaxial layer. An etch stop layer may also be disposed between the conductive buffer layer and the GaN epitaxial layer. The conductive buffer layer may comprise an epitaxial SiC layer having a higher doping concentration than the SiC substrate. The conductive buffer layer may also comprise an implanted SiC layer in the SiC substrate that has a higher doping concentration than the SiC substrate.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the semiconductor device structure includes a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG structure disposed between the conductive substrate and the GaN epitaxial layer.

Additional embodiments of the present invention include a GaN based semiconductor device on the GaN epitaxial layer. The GaN based semiconductor device may be a GaN based high electron mobility transistor on the GaN epitaxial layer. A via hole and corresponding via metal in the via hole that extend through layers of the GaN based semiconductor device and the GaN epitaxial layer may also be provided. In some embodiments the via hole and via metal extend through the SiC substrate. In other embodiments the via hole and via metal extend to the substrate and the via metal provides an ohmic contact to the substrate. A region of higher doping concentration may also be provided in the substrate adjacent the via.

In further embodiments of the present invention the semiconductor device structure includes a conductive buffer layer disposed between the substrate and the GaN epitaxial layer the via hole and the via metal extend to the conductive buffer layer and the via metal provides an ohmic contact to the conductive buffer layer. An etch stop layer may be disposed between the conductive buffer layer and the GaN epitaxial layer. The etch stop layer may for example be AlN or AlGaN. The conductive buffer layer may comprise a first conductive layer of a first conductivity type on the substrate and a second conductive layer of a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type on the first conductive layer and disposed between the first conductive layer and the GaN epitaxial layer.

In additional embodiments of the present invention the semiconductor device structure includes a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG structure disposed between the substrate and the GaN epitaxial layer the via hole and the via metal extend to the 2DEG structure and the via metal provides an ohmic contact to the 2DEG structure. An etch stop layer may be disposed between the 2DEG structure and the GaN epitaxial layer.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide GaN semiconductor device structures and methods of fabricating GaN semiconductor device structures that include an electrically conductive GaN substrate an insulating or semi insulating GaN epitaxial layer on the conductive GaN substrate a GaN based semiconductor device on the GaN epitaxial layer and a via hole and corresponding via metal in the via hole that extend through layers of the GaN based semiconductor device and the GaN epitaxial layer.

In some embodiments of the present invention the GaN based epitaxial layer has a thickness of at about least 4 m. In some embodiments the GaN based epitaxial layer has a thickness of at about least 8 m and in some embodiments at least about 10 m. The GaN epitaxial layer may have a resistivity of at least 10 cm. The GaN epitaxial layer may have an isolation voltage of at least about 50V and in some embodiments at least about 100V.

In particular embodiments of the present invention the GaN based epitaxial layer is doped with a deep level transition metal dopant. The GaN epitaxial layer may be doped with Fe Co Mn Cr V and or Ni. The concentration of the deep level transition metal dopant may be at least about 1 10cm.

In further embodiments of the present invention a conductive buffer layer is disposed between the conductive GaN substrate and the GaN epitaxial layer. The via hole and the via metal extend to the conductive buffer layer and the via metal provides an ohmic contact to the conductive buffer layer. An etch stop layer may be disposed between the conductive buffer layer and the GaN epitaxial layer. The conductive buffer layer may comprise an epitaxial layer having a higher doping concentration than the GaN substrate. The conductive buffer layer may comprise an implanted layer in the GaN substrate having a higher doping concentration than the GaN substrate.

In additional embodiments of the present invention the semiconductor device structure includes a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG structure disposed between the conductive substrate and the GaN epitaxial layer where the via hole and the via metal extend to the 2DEG structure and the via metal provides an ohmic contact to the 2DEG structure.

In further embodiments of the present invention the semiconductor device structure further includes a GaN based high electron mobility transistor on the GaN epitaxial layer.

In additional embodiments of the present invention the via hole and via metal extend through the GaN substrate. The via hole and via metal may also extend to the substrate and the via metal provide an ohmic contact to the substrate. A region of higher doping concentration may also be provided in the substrate beneath the via.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. However this invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the thickness of layers and regions are exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout the specification.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another element as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the present disclosure and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

Embodiments of the present invention may be particularly well suited for use in nitride based devices such as Group III nitride based HEMTs. As used herein the term Group III nitride refers to those semiconductor compounds formed between nitrogen and the elements in Group III of the periodic table usually aluminum Al gallium Ga and or indium In . The term also refers to ternary and quaternary compounds such as AlGaN and AlInGaN. As is well understood by those in this art the Group III elements can combine with nitrogen to form binary e.g. GaN ternary e.g. AlGaN AlInN and quaternary e.g. AlInGaN compounds. These compounds all have empirical formulas in which one mole of nitrogen is combined with a total of one mole of the Group III elements. Accordingly formulas such as AlGaN where 0 x 1 are often used to describe them.

As illustrated in embodiments of the present invention provide a thick GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer on an electrically conductive semiconductor substrate . The GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer has a thickness of at least about 4 m in some embodiments at least about 8 m and in some embodiments at least about 10 m. The conductive semiconductor substrate and the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer provide a device substrate on which a GaN based semiconductor device structure such as a GaN based HEMT is provided.

The electrically conductive substrate may in some embodiments be a SiC diamond Si and or GaN substrate. For example in some embodiments of the present invention the semiconductor substrate may be a conductive SiC substrate a conductive diamond substrate a conductive Si substrate and or a conductive GaN substrate. The conductive substrate may be an n type or p type substrate. The substrate may be a free standing or boule grown substrate and may include for example a Group III nitride and or GaN layers with a substrate of another material which may be removed. Methods of fabricating suitable substrates are known to those of skill in the art and need not be described in further detail herein. For example if the substrate is a GaN substrate the substrate may be fabricated as described in Xu et al. Growth and Characteristics of Freestanding Gallium Nitride Substrates ATMI Inc. 2003 Vaudo et al. GaN Boule Growth A Pathway to GaN Wafers With Improved Material Quality ATMI Inc. 2003 and or U.S. Pat. No. 6 765 240 entitled BULK SINGLE CRYSTAL GALLIUM NITRIDE AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME the disclosures of which are incorporated herein as if set forth in their entirety. SiC substrates are also commercially available. For example SiC and GaN substrates are available from Cree Inc. of Durham N.C.

In some embodiments of the present invention the GaN epitaxial layer has a resistivity of at least 10 cm. The GaN epitaxial layer may have an isolation voltage of at least about 50V where the isolation voltage is measured as described below. In some embodiments of the present invention the GaN epitaxial layer has an isolation voltage of at least about 100V.

In some embodiments of the present invention a buffer layer s not shown may be provided between the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and the conductive substrate . For example where the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer is formed on a non GaN substrate by hetero epitaxial growth an AlN AlGaN or other buffer layer may be provided. The buffer layer s may be of uniform or non uniform composition. Thus for example a graded AlGaN layer may be provided as a buffer layer. The buffer layer s may also include for example a nucleation layer such as a continuous or discontinuous AlN layer. Suitable buffer layers and their fabrication are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 841 001 entitled STRAlN COMPENSATED SEMICONDUCTOR STRUCTURES AND METHODS OF FABRICATING STRAIN COMPENSATED SEMICONDUCTOR STRUCTURES the disclosure of which is incorporated herein as if set forth in its entirety.

The GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer may be formed on the conductive substrate by techniques known to those of skill in the art. For example metal organic vapor phase epitaxy MOVPE may be utilized. Suitable source materials for the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer include for example trimethylgallium TMGa NHand CpFe. If the substrate is a GaN substrate the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer may be formed as described in concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 103 127 entitled COMPOSITE SUBSTRATES OF CONDUCTIVE AND INSULATING OR SEMI INSULATING GROUP III NITRIDES FOR GROUP III NITRIDE DEVICES and or U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 752 970 filed Jan. 7 2004 and entitled CO DOPING FOR FERMI LEVEL CONTROL IN SEMI INSULATING GROUP III NITRIDES the disclosures of which are incorporated herein as if set forth in its entirety.

The GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer may have deep level impurities such as Fe Co Mn Cr V and or Ni and or other point defects incorporated therein to make the epitaxial layer semi insulating or insulating. In particular embodiments of the present invention the GaN epitaxial layer is doped with Fe. For example in some embodiments of the present invention a dopant concentration of 1 10cmmay be provided. Furthermore additional dopants may also be incorporated in the epitaxial layer . For example if the composition of the epitaxial layer differs from that of the conductive substrate polarization induced charge may result from the compositional differences. Such polarization induced charge may be counteracted by doping the epitaxial layer to maintain the insulating behavior of the epitaxial layer .

While the SiC substrate is illustrated as a single substrate the substrate may be provided by a SiC layer on another material such as diamond. In particular embodiments a conductive SiC substrate may be provided on a conductive diamond substrate. Such composite substrates may be provided as described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 707 898 filed Jan. 22 2004 entitled SILICON CARBIDE ON DIAMOND SUBSTRATES AND RELATED DEVICES AND METHODS the disclosure of which is incorporated herein as if set forth in its entirety. Conductive diamond may be more thermally conductive than semi insulating diamond as selection of the growth parameters may be less constrained. For example conductive diamond layers on conductive SiC substrates or conductive SiC layers on conductive diamond substrates may be provided as the composite substrate. Thus in some embodiments of the present invention the SiC substrate may be provided by a composite SiC substrate as described herein.

In some embodiments of the present invention a buffer layer s not shown may be provided between the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and the conductive SiC substrate . For example an AlN or other buffer layer s may be provided. Suitable buffer layers and their fabrication are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 841 001 as discussed above.

The substrate may be an n type or p type substrate. Electrically conductive SiC substrates may be easier and or less expensive to produce in larger sizes and or with higher structural quality than semi insulating or insulating substrates. Methods of fabricating electrically conductive SiC substrates are known to those of skill in the art and need not be described further herein. Suitable SiC substrates are available from Cree Inc. Durham N.C.

The GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer may be formed on the substrate by techniques known to those of skill in the art. For example metal organic vapor phase epitaxy MOVPE may be utilized. Suitable source materials for the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer include for example trimethylgallium TMGa NHand CpFe. Because the substrate may be conductive it may provide a higher quality e.g. reduced defect density substrate for the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer .

The semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer may have deep level impurities such as Fe Co Mn Cr V and or Ni and or other point defects incorporated therein to make the epitaxial layer semi insulating or insulating. In particular embodiments of the present invention the GaN epitaxial layer is doped with Fe. For example in some embodiments of the present invention a dopant concentration of 1 10cmmay be provided. Furthermore additional dopants may also be incorporated in the epitaxial layer . Because the composition of the epitaxial layer differs from that of the substrate or buffer layer s if present polarization induced charge may result from the compositional differences. Such polarization induced charge may be counteracted by doping the epitaxial layer to maintain the insulating behavior of the epitaxial layer .

In some embodiments of the present invention a buffer layer s not shown may be provided between the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and the conductive buffer layer . Optionally a buffer layer not shown could be provided between the conductive substrate and the conductive buffer layer . For example an AlN AlGaN or other buffer layer may be provided. The buffer layer s may be of uniform or non uniform composition. Thus for example a graded AlGaN layer may be provided as a buffer layer. The buffer layer s may also include for example a nucleation layer such as a continuous or discontinuous AlN layer. Suitable buffer layers and their fabrication are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 841 001 as discussed above.

The substrate may in some embodiments be a conductive SiC substrate a conductive GaN substrate a conductive diamond substrate or a conductive Si substrate. The substrate may also be a composite substrate of SiC and diamond. The substrate may be an n type or p type substrate. The substrate may be a free standing or boule grown substrate and may include for example a Group III nitride and or GaN layers with a substrate of another material which may be removed. In the case of SiC and diamond the diamond would not be removed. SiC diamond substrates may be provided for example as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 707 898 discussed above. Methods of fabricating suitable substrates are known to those of skill in the art and need not be described in further detail herein.

The conductive buffer layer may for example be an epitaxial layer on the substrate or may be an implanted region in the substrate . In some embodiments of the present invention ion implantation of dopant into the substrate and annealing could also be used to provide the conductive buffer layer which may help form ohmic contacts to the substrate . Such ion implantation and or annealing could be carried out before formation of the epitaxial layer .

The conductive buffer layer may have the same composition as the substrate or may have a different composition. For example if the substrate is a SiC substrate the conductive buffer layer could be a SiC epitaxial layer or implanted region or the conductive buffer layer could be a conductive GaN epitaxial layer GaN dots and or a conductive AlGaN layer. The conductive buffer layer may have the same conductivity type as the substrate or may be of opposite conductivity type. In some embodiments of the present invention the conductive buffer layer has a higher doping concentration than is present in the substrate . Furthermore a higher dopant concentration buffer layer may provide for a higher quality ohmic contact and or a lower thermal treatment to provide an ohmic contact to the buffer layer and through the buffer layer to the substrate .

The conductive buffer layer may also include multiple layers. For example the conductive buffer layer may provide a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG structure. Multiple 2DEG structures could be grown near the substrate to enhance current spreading at the expense of vertical resistance. In some embodiments thin AlGaN layers could be appropriately doped with Si or appropriately graded in Al composition so as to reduce or minimize the barrier to vertical conduction of electrons. Combinations of a conductive epitaxial layer and a 2DEG structure may also be provided.

The conductive buffer layer could also be provided for example by a conductive GaN layer on a conductive AlGaN layer on implanted SiC. Other suitable techniques for making a conductive interface between GaN and SiC may also be used. Thus the conductive buffer layer may be provided as described for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0008241 entitled GROUP III NITRIDE PHOTONIC DEVICES ON SILICON CARBIDE SUBSTRATES WITH CONDUCTIVE BUFFER INTERLAYER STRUCTURE the disclosure of which is incorporated herein as if set forth in its entirety.

As an example in some embodiments of the present invention the conductive buffer layer may be an even more heavily n type doped layer an n GaN layer may be epitaxially grown prior to but preferably in the same run as the semi insulating layer to act as an ohmic contact and or current spreading layer. Thin epi layers may often be doped more heavily than thick substrates without significant defects in the crystal. In some embodiments the n layer is grown as thick and as heavily doped as possible without introducing significant defects. A thicker n layer may better spread current with lower total resistance than the substrate alone. Furthermore the thicker the n layer the more easily low resistance ohmic contacts may be made to the n layer without requiring precise etch times. Small amounts of In may be incorporated to reduce the strain in heavily Si doped layers reduce defects and allow more Si incorporation and possibly serve as an indicator for when the etch should be stopped.

In some embodiments the conductive buffer layer may include conductive layers of opposite conductive type. For example the conductive buffer lay may include an n GaN layer adjacent the substrate and a p type GaN layer on the n GaN layer opposite the substrate . Such an opposite conductivity type layer may serve as a higher barrier for electron injection into the semi insulating or insulating GaN layer from the substrate .

In some embodiments of the present invention a buffer layer s not shown may be provided between the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and the conductive buffer layer . For example an AlN AlGaN or other buffer layer may be provided. The buffer layer s may be of uniform or non uniform composition. Thus for example a graded AlGaN layer may be provided as a buffer layer. The buffer layer s may also include for example a nucleation layer such as a continuous or discontinuous AlN layer. Suitable buffer layers and their fabrication are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 841 001 as discussed above.

The conductive buffer layer may for example be an epitaxial layer on the substrate or may be an implanted region in the substrate . In some embodiments of the present invention ion implantation of dopant into the substrate and annealing could also be used to provide the conductive buffer layer which may help form ohmic contacts to the substrate . Such ion implantation could be carried out before formation of the epitaxial layer . For example ion implantation of a SiC substrate may be provided as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0149993 entitled METHODS OF TREATING A SILICON CARBIDE SUBSTRATE FOR IMPROVED EPITAXIAL DEPOSITION AND RESULTING STRUCTURES AND DEVICES and or U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0029526 entitled METHODS OF TREATING A SILICON CARBIDE SUBSTRATE FOR IMPROVED EPITAXIAL DEPOSITION AND RESULTING STRUCTURES AND DEVICES the disclosures of which are incorporated herein as if set forth in their entirety.

The conductive buffer layer may have the same composition as the substrate or may have a different composition. For example the conductive buffer layer could be a SiC epitaxial layer or implanted region or the conductive buffer layer could be a conductive GaN epitaxial layer GaN dots and or a conductive AlGaN layer. The conductive buffer layer may have the same conductivity type as the substrate or may be of opposite conductivity type. In some embodiments of the present invention the conductive buffer layer has a higher doping concentration than is present in the substrate . Furthermore a higher dopant concentration buffer layer may provide for a higher quality ohmic contact and or a lower thermal treatment to provide an ohmic contact to the buffer layer and through the buffer layer to the substrate .

The conductive buffer layer may also include multiple layers. For example the conductive buffer layer may provide a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG structure. The 2DEG structure may include multiple 2DEG layers. For example multiple 2DEG layers could be provided near the substrate to enhance current spreading at the expense of vertical resistance. In some embodiments thin AlGaN layers could be heavily Si doped to increase the charge and reduce vertical resistance. Combinations of a conductive epitaxial layer and a 2DEG structure may also be provided.

As an example in some embodiments of the present invention the conductive buffer layer may be an even more heavily n type doped layer an n SiC layer may be epitaxially grown prior to the semi insulating layer to act as an ohmic contact and or current spreading layer. In some embodiments the n layer is grown as thick and as heavily doped as possible without introducing significant defects. A thicker n layer may better spread current with lower total resistance than the substrate alone. Existence of a n current spreading layer may slightly relax the high doping concentration requirements of the substrate reducing costs. Furthermore the thicker the n layer the more easily low resistance ohmic contacts may be made to the n layer without requiring precise etch times.

In some embodiments the conductive buffer layer may include conductive layers of opposite conductive type. For example the conductive buffer lay may include an n SiC or GaN layer adjacent the substrate and a p type SiC or GaN layer on the n SiC or GaN layer opposite the substrate . Such an opposite conductivity type layer may serve as a higher barrier for electron injection into the semi insulating or insulating GaN layer from the substrate .

Fabrication of the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or may be controlled to control the strain in the layer. For example the III V composition and or the pressure under which the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or is fabricated may be controlled to control the strain in the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or . By increasing the III V ratio the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or may be made more compressive. Furthermore by fabricating the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or at lower pressures the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or may be more compressive. Additionally as the thickness of the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or increases an otherwise compressive strained layer may become tensile strained. Such tensile strain may result in defects such as cracking of the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or . Accordingly the thickness growth conditions and source materials may be controlled to avoid changes in the strain of the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or during fabrication.

Control of the GaN AlN nucleation conditions to control the initial strain through island growth and coalescence may also be used to control the strain of the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or . For example the pressure and NHflow rates may be adjusted to reduce and or control strain and bow resulting from the growth of the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or .

Because a GaN based semiconductor device and is fabricated on the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or GaN based semiconductor device and may be electrically isolated from the substrates and . Furthermore because GaN based semiconductor device and and the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or are both GaN based structures unlike an AlN isolation layer the GaN based semiconductor device and and the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or may be fabricated in a single step using the same fabrication technique and or in a single reactor. Furthermore GaN may be grown faster than AlGaN or AlN by MOCVD. Thick GaN may also have a lower dislocation density than thick AlN grown under similar conditions e.g. the same growth temperature .

In certain embodiments of the present invention the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or may be fabricated as follows. In the present example the substrate is a SiC substrate and buffer layers between the substrate and insulating GaN may comprise one or a combination of the following AlN AlN graded to GaN AlGaN AlGaN graded to GaN AlGaN GaN AlGaN superlattices multiple layers of low temperature GaN interlayers to terminate dislocations multiple layers of micro ELO through sparse SiN or sparse AlN to reduce dislocations etc. The dislocation termination or reduction layers may be conductive for example sparse SiN may be n type and may provide the conductive layer on which the semi insulating or insulating GaN layer is provided. Suitable GaN layers may be deposited by MOCVD e.g. MOVPE OMCVD OMVPE using TMGa NH and CpFe as precursors. Semi insulating GaN has been deposited on multiple wafers up to 100 mm in diameter at the same time using a growth pressure of 0.2 bar a temperature of 1000 C. a V III ratio of 250 a growth rate of 6 m hr and a Fe doping density of 2 10cm. A 30 200 nm AlN nucleation layer is deposited on a SiC substrate. The first part of the GaN layer is grown to control the strain primarily by adjusting the growth pressure and ammonia flow rate. For example the pressure may be decreased to 0.1 bar to obtain a less tensile more compressive GaN film than that grown at 0.2 bar.

Semi insulating GaN layers have been fabricated to thicknesses of about 30 m on high purity SiC substrates with minimal cracking. In such a case a thin approximately 30 nm layer of AlN was deposited using TMAl and NHat low pressure. Then 30 of GaN was deposited at 0.15 atmosphere using TMGa and NHwith a V III ratio of 500. The layers were deposited at approximately 1000 C. The dislocation density was reduced to about 10cmfor layers of this thickness.

As discussed above the GaN epitaxial layer and or is semi insulating or insulating and the substrate is conductive. The terms conductive semi insulating and insulating are understood by one of skill in the art and are used descriptively rather than in an absolute sense and thus are used to describe the relative conductivity resistivity of the respective materials. In particular embodiments of the present invention the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or has a resistivity equal to or higher than about 1 10 cm at room temperature and the conductive substrate has a resistivity of equal to or less than about 0.1 cm at room temperature.

In some embodiments of the present invention a conductive substrate may have a resistivity of about 0.02 cm or less for reduced or minimal resistance when used as the ground to which via metal through the semi insulating or insulating GaN layer is connected. Doping in the substrate may be n type at a level of greater than about 1 10cmand in some embodiments a level of greater than about 1 10cm. The substrate may be doped as high as possible without increasing electrical resistance due to lower mobility or significantly impairing the crystal quality or thermal conductivity of the substrate. As noted above making the doping as high as possible in the conductive substrate may be relaxed somewhat if there is an n current spreading layer. This might make it cheaper and also better in terms of substrate defects to not require n 4H SiC substrates. 

The epitaxial layer should be sufficiently insulating to provide electrical isolation of the device structure from the conductive substrate . In particular embodiments the epitaxial layer should be sufficiently insulating to provide electrical isolation of a source region from a drain region of a transistor such as a HEMT when a gate of the transistor is biased to pinch off the channel. Thus the high field characteristics of the epitaxial layer may in some embodiments of the present invention be more determinative than the resistivity of the epitaxial layer . Such high field characteristics may be characterized by the isolation voltage of the structure. Thus in some embodiments of the present invention the epitaxial layer is sufficiently insulating to provide an isolation voltage of at least 50 V and in further embodiments of the present invention the epitaxial layer is sufficiently insulating to provide an isolation voltage of at least 100 V. The isolation voltage refers to the voltage that provides a 1 mA mm current for an ungated transistor structure on the epitaxial layer . Thus for example the isolation voltage of a structure may be measured by forming a HEMT structure on the epitaxial layer with a 5 m source to drain spacing and removing the gate from the structure. A 3 m region centered between source and drain is damaged for example by ion implantation or the channel is etched away for example by reactive ion etching RIE to destroy the channel region of the device. A voltage is then applied from the source to the drain and the current measured. The voltage at which 1 mA per mm of width of current flow is measured is referred to herein as the isolation voltage of the structure.

The thickness of the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer may depend on the device that is formed on the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and the expected operating conditions for the device. For example for a HEMT structure with an expected operating frequency of 2 GHz a thickness of 5 m may be suitable. For a HEMT structure with an expected operating frequency of 10 GHz a thickness of 10 m may be suitable. The particular thickness of the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer may be controlled by the acceptable capacitance between the active device region and the underlying conductive substrate. Such capacitance may be affected by other layers between the device layers and a conductive layer. For example if a non conductive layer is provided between the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer the thickness of the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer may be adjusted based on the characteristics of the non conductive layer such as thickness and dielectric constant to provide the acceptable capacitance.

In addition because the substrate is conductive the substrate may be used as a contact of the device structure . Embodiments of the present invention incorporating via holes and via metal structures are illustrated in .

In and a conductive substrate may be provided as described above with reference to with regard to the substrates and . The substrate may be conductive semi insulating or insulating. A semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer or may be provided as described above with reference to the semi insulating GaN epitaxial layers and . Buffer layers may also be provided between the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layers or and the substrates as described above. A device structure is provided on the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layers or and may be a device structure or as described above. As is further illustrated in a conductive buffer layer may be provided as described above with reference to the conductive buffer layers and . Accordingly these aspects of the embodiments illustrated in will not be described in further detail below.

As illustrated in contacts and may be provided for the semiconductor device . The contacts and may for example be a source contact a drain contact and a gate contact respectively for a GaN based transistor such as a HEMT. While three contacts are illustrated in fewer or more contacts may be provided based on the semiconductor device provided. A passivation layer s such as a SiN SiO oxynitride or other such layer may also be provided on exposed surfaces of the semiconductor device structure and or portions of the metal contacts overlayers. A backside ohmic contact may also be provided to the substrate opposite the face of the substrate on which the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer is provided. To improve the resistivity of the ohmic contact to the substrate the backside of the substrate may for example be implanted and annealed not shown .

As is further illustrated in a via hole extends through the device structure and the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer to and or into the conductive substrate . If non conductive buffer layers are provided between the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer and the conductive substrate the via hole should extend through the non conductive layers to the conductive substrate.

In some embodiments the passivation layer s may provide an etch mask or a separate etch mask may be utilized for forming the via hole . For example a thick photo resist may be used as a mask to protect the GaN based device structure . The via hole may be formed for example by reactive ion etching RIE or inductively coupled plasma ICP with a plasma containing chlorine compounds such as Cl BCl or other compounds.

A via metal is provided in the via hole and contacts the substrate . The via metal may be selected to provide an ohmic contact to the substrate . For example if the substrate is SiC nickel or other suitable metal may be used as the via metal . Other conductors such as polysilicon and or metal silicides may also be used as the via metal . Multiple materials may be used as the via metal . For example the metal in direct contact with the substrate or the conductive buffer layer described below may be nickel while the remained of the metal may be gold. Accordingly references to via metal refer to a conductor of one or more conductive materials within a via hole.

The via hole may be etched as described above with respect to . However because the RIE or ICP may have limited selectivity between the GaN epitaxial layer and the conductive buffer layer the conductive buffer layer may in some cases be etched through to the substrate . Thus in some embodiments of the present invention the via hole extends through the conductive buffer layer to the substrate .

In embodiments of the present invention where the conductive buffer layer includes conductive layers of opposite conductivity type the via hole may extend through the layer of opposite conductivity type to the substrate and to or into the layer with the same conductivity type as the substrate . For example if the substrate is an n type SiC substrate and the conductive buffer lay includes an n SiC layer and a p type SiC layer on the n SiC layer the via hole may extend through the p type SiC layer and to or into the n SiC layer.

In some embodiments of the present invention the via hole may extend through the conductive buffer layer to the substrate . For example if the conductive buffer layer comprises a 2DEG structure the via hole and via metal may extend through the 2DEG structure to the substrate .

In addition to the structures illustrated above with reference to an additional layer s may be included between the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer and the substrate that provide an etch stop for etching the via holes and illustrated in and . Such a structure is illustrated in . As seen in an etch stop layer is provided between the conductive buffer layer and the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer . The via hole extends through the etch stop layer and the via metal extends through the etch stop layer to contact the buffer layer . If the etch stop layer is conductive the via hole and the via metal may only extend to contact the etch stop layer .

For example a thin AlN layer may be provided between the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer and the substrate or the conductive buffer layer as the etch stop layer . In such a case adding a fluorine containing compound such as CF NFand or SiFto the conventional chlorine containing plasmas used for RIE or ICP of GaN and other Group III N materials may result in a highly selective etch that will slow or stop at the AlN layer. In some embodiments the thickness of an AlN nucleation layer may be adjusted to provide the etch stop layer . The nucleation layer may be thick enough to provide an etch stop but thin enough to be removed with a non selective etch for AlN and SiC. If the AlN layer etch stop layer is thin it could be removed with a non selective etch or alternatively it could be removed with a wet etch such as a strong base without etching through the buffer layer If a non selective etch is used the thickness of the buffer layer may be much greater than the thickness of the etch stop layer .

While the use of an etch stop layer has been illustrated with respect to embodiments incorporating a conductive buffer layer the etch stop layer could be used without the presence of the buffer layer to control the depth of etch into the substrate or as a precursor to the implantation as illustrated in . Furthermore if multiple layers of the same or different conductivity type are provided an etch stop layer could be provided between ones of the multiple layers. The implantation illustrated in could be carried out with the etch stop layer present or removed. If the implantation is performed with the etch stop layer present the etch stop layer could be removed prior to formation of the via metal .

By using vias through a GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer to a conductive substrate no wafer thinning may be needed. Thus reduced warping and the thermal properties of the substrate may be maintained also higher yield processes are available.

While each of the embodiments of the present invention described above utilize a conductive substrate some embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the use of a conductive substrate. The isolation benefits of a thick semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer may be provided where a conductive layer is present between the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer irrespective of whether the substrate itself is conductive. Such embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in .

In some embodiments of the present invention a buffer layer s not shown may be provided between the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and the conductive layer . Optionally a buffer layer not shown could be provided between the substrate and the conductive layer . For example an AlN AlGaN or other buffer layer may be provided. The buffer layer s may be of uniform or non uniform composition. Thus for example a graded AlGaN layer may be provided as a buffer layer. The buffer layer s may also include for example a nucleation layer such as a continuous or discontinuous AlN layer. Suitable buffer layers and their fabrication are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 841 001 as discussed above.

The substrate may in some embodiments be a SiC substrate a GaN substrate a diamond substrate an AlN substrate a sapphire substrate or a Si substrate. The substrate may also be a composite substrate of SiC and diamond. The substrate may be semi insulating or insulating. The substrate may be a free standing or boule grown substrate and may include for example a Group III nitride and or GaN layers with a substrate of another material which may be removed. In the case of SiC and diamond the diamond would typically not be removed. Thus in some embodiments of the present invention the conductive layer and the substrate may be provided as a conductive SiC layer on an insulating or semi insulating diamond substrate or as an insulating or semi insulating SiC layer on a conductive diamond substrate. SiC diamond substrates may be provided for example as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 707 898 discussed above. Methods of fabricating suitable substrates are known to those of skill in the art and need not be described in further detail herein.

The conductive layer could also be provided by conductive GaN AlGaN AlGaN graded to GaN AlGaN GaN AlGaN superlattices multiple layers of low temperature GaN interlayers to terminate dislocations multiple layers of micro ELO through sparse SiN or sparse AlN to reduce dislocations etc. In particular embodiments of the present invention the dislocation termination or reduction layers provide the conductive layer . For example sparse SiN may be n type and may provide the conductive layer on which the semi insulating or insulating GaN layer is provided. In some embodiments of the present invention a conductive layer is provided by an epitaxial lateral overgrowth ELO structure on a sapphire substrate. Other structures that provide a conductive layer may also be utilized. Furthermore the conductive layer could be provided by multiple layers possibly separated by semi insulating or insulating layers.

Fabrication of the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer may be carried out as described above with reference to the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer and or .

Because a GaN based semiconductor device is fabricated on the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer the GaN based semiconductor device may be electrically isolated from the conductive layer . Furthermore because GaN based semiconductor device and the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer are both GaN based structures unlike an AlN isolation layer the GaN based semiconductor device and the GaN semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer may be fabricated in a single step and or in a single reactor. Furthermore as discussed above GaN may be grown faster than AlGaN or AlN by MOCVD. Thick GaN may also have a lower dislocation density than thick AlN grown under similar conditions e.g. the same growth temperature .

In particular embodiments of the present invention the semi insulating or insulating epitaxial layer has a resistivity equal to or higher than about 1 10 cm at room temperature and the conductive layer has a resistivity of equal to or less than about 0.1 cm at room temperature. In some embodiments of the present invention conductive layer may have a resistivity of about 0.02 cm or less. The epitaxial layer should be sufficiently insulating to provide electrical isolation of the device structure from the conductive layer . In particular embodiments the epitaxial layer should be sufficiently insulating to provide electrical isolation of a source region from a drain region of a transistor such as a HEMT when a gate of the transistor is biased to pinch off the channel as described above. Thus in some embodiments of the present invention the epitaxial layer is sufficiently insulating to provide an isolation voltage of at least 50 V and in further embodiments of the present invention the epitaxial layer is sufficiently insulating to provide an isolation voltage of at least 100 V.

Further embodiments of the present invention incorporating via hole and via metal structures are illustrated in . illustrates a via hole and via metal that extend to through conductive layer between the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer and the substrate . As seen in the via hole and via metal extends through the device structure the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer the conductive layer and the substrate and contacts a backside contact is on a face of the substrate opposite the semi insulating or insulating GaN epitaxial layer . Techniques for fabricating such a via are described for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2004 0241970 published Dec. 4 2004 and entitled METHOD OF FORMING VIAS IN SILICON CARBIDE AND RESULTING DEVICES AND CIRCUITS the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

In addition to the via structure of or alternatively the via structure of could be used with the structure of . The conductive layer could by coupled to the backside contact by the via extending through the conductive layer or alternatively or additionally a via from the backside could be provided to the conductive layer .

While some embodiments of the present invention are not limited to a particular GaN semiconductor device structure in some embodiments of the present invention the GaN semiconductor device structure may be a GaN based transistor structure. For example the GaN semiconductor device structure may comprise a high electron mobility transistor HEMT structure. For example some embodiments of the present invention may include transistor structures such as those described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 793 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002 0066908A1 filed Jul. 12 2001 and published Jun. 6 2002 for ALUMINUM GALLIUM NITRIDE GALLIUM NITRIDE HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTORS HAVING A GATE CONTACT ON A GALLIUM NITRIDE BASED CAP SEGMENT AND METHODS OF FABRICATING SAME U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 882 to Smorchkova et al. entitled GROUP III NITRIDE BASED HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTOR HEMT WITH BARRIER SPACER LAYER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 617 843 filed Jul. 11 2003 for NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS AND METHODS OF FABRICATION THEREOF USING NON ETCHED CONTACT RECESSES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 772 882 filed Feb. 5 2004 for NITRIDE HETEROJUNCTION TRANSISTORS HAVING CHARGE TRANSFER INDUCED ENERGY BARRIERS AND METHODS OF FABRICATING THE SAME U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 897 726 filed Jul. 23 2004 entitled METHODS OF FABRICATING NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS WITH A CAP LAYER AND A RECESSED GATE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 849 617 filed May 20 2004 entitled METHODS OF FABRICATING NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS HAVING REGROWN OHMIC CONTACT REGIONS AND NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS HAVING REGROWN OHMIC CONTACT REGIONS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 849 589 filed May 20 2004 and entitled SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES HAVING A HYBRID CHANNEL LAYER CURRENT APERTURE TRANSISTORS AND METHODS OF FABRICATING SAME U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 0020092 filed Jul. 23 2002 and published Jan. 30 2003 for INSULATING GATE ALGAN GAN HEMT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 996 249 filed Nov. 23 2004 and entitled CAP LAYERS AND OR PASSIVATION LAYERS FOR NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS TRANSISTOR STRUCTURES AND METHODS OF FABRICATING SAME U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 080 905 filed Mar. 15 2005 and entitled GROUP III NITRIDE FIELD EFFECT TRANSISTORS FETs CAPABLE OF WITHSTANDING HIGH TEMPERATURE REVERSE BIAS TEST CONDITIONS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 005 107 filed Dec. 6 2004 and entitled HIGH POWER DENSITY AND OR LINEARITY TRANSISTORS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 005 423 filed Dec. 6 2004 and entitled FIELD EFFECT TRANSISTORS FETs HAVING MULTI WATT OUTPUT POWER AT MILLIMETER WAVE FREQUENCIES the disclosures of which are incorporated herein as if described in their entirety. Embodiments of the present invention may also be utilized with HEMT structures such as described in for example Yu et al. Schottky barrier engineering in III V nitrides via the piezoelectric effect Applied Physics Letters Vol. 73 No. 13 1998 or in U.S. Pat. No. 6 584 333 filed Jul. 12 2001 for ALUMINUM GALLIUM NITRIDE GALLIUM NITRIDE HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTORS HAVING A GATE CONTACT ON A GALLIUM NITRIDE BASED CAP SEGMENT AND METHODS OF FABRICATING SAME the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

While various exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to combinations and or sub combinations of the features and elements illustrated in the figures may also be provided. Thus for example an etch stop layer illustrated with may be provided in the embodiments of the present invention illustrated in and .

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms have been employed they have been used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

