---

title: Enhanced reliability miniature piston actuator for an electronic thermal battery initiator
abstract: A system for a piston actuator comprising a configuration with lead styphnate charge material and Nichrome® bridgewire, wherein the device configuration provides very high reliability, including piston actuator applications; resistance of the bridgewire is carefully controlled to optimize power transfer from the firing circuit to the bridgewire and charge material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09057590&OS=09057590&RS=09057590
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09057590
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131112
---
This is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 082 635 filed Apr. 8 2011 which claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 61 322 471 filed Apr. 9 2010. This application is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. W31P4Q 06 C 0330 awarded by the Navy. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to actuators and a process for making them and more particularly to a miniature piston actuator for munitions aerospace aeronautical and automotive applications.

Miniature Piston Actuators can be used as electro explosive devices EEDs . Such devices have been used as part of an Electronic Thermal Battery Initiator ETBI to provide a mechanical output to initiate a thermal battery.

Thermal batteries are designed for immediate and short duration activation under extreme operating conditions. In an inert state suitable for storage a thermal battery is dormant and can remain inactive for long periods of time. Upon initiation a thermal battery instantly activates to serve as an accurate low impedance voltage source that is stable for a predetermined time duration.

Additionally explosive and pyrotechnic devices such as explosive bolts bolt cutters separation fairings actuators engine igniters etc. are used in aeronautical and aerospace applications to perform various functions such as the separation of one structure from another the release of a structure from a stowed position to a deployed position etc. They are also used in the safety systems of land vehicles such as automobiles for the deployment of air bags. Such devices are typically coupled to electrically operated initiators which in response to suitable electrical signals initiate the devices.

In aeronautical and aerospace devices such as missiles satellites launch vehicles etc. and in land vehicle safety systems the initiators in the ordnance firing systems that control the various explosive or pyrotechnic effectors typically comprise a hot bridgewire initiating element and an initiating charge of explosive or pyrotechnic material which is sensitive to the initiating element. In order to stimulate the hot bridgewire initiating element to release sufficient energy to ignite the ignition charge a large amount of electrical energy relative to what is generally required for most other functions on such devices is required. For example the firing of a hot bridgewire initiator typically requires a draw of several typically 2 3 or more amps from a 28 volt source for a period of about 0.05 second. Since there may be numerous effectors on a given device the total energy requirement for initiation of the effectors may exceed the energy requirement for operation of the circuitry that controls the device. For this reason ordnance firing systems typically include a dedicated high power energy source such as a thermal or chemical battery for the purpose of providing sufficient energy to fire the hot bridgewires. The need in aerospace and aeronautical devices to provide such batteries which are large and heavy has been viewed as an unavoidable but significant burden. The batteries occupy space which could go to other more useful components of the device or to increased payload capacity and for airborne devices. They also increase the fuel consumption of the device at all times during flight. In some applications such as for initiation of a thermal battery of a munition after launch this energy requirement is impractical. A miniature piston actuator PA with a very low firing energy requirement which can provide a mechanical output to initiate the thermal battery is thus needed.

The current generation of piston actuators PAs for applications utilizes potassium dinitro benzo furoxan KDNBF as the explosive charge material and platinum as the bridgewire. KDNBF charge material is used to maximize gas generation to provide the actuating force. These PAs have an appreciable failure rate 5 especially at cold temperature 40 C even when they were provided a firing energy greater than the all fire energy requirement.

Current piston actuators do not provide a sufficiently high reliability within the constraints of available volume and electrical firing energy. Such devices are limited in their operation in that they suffer from poor reliability including under exposure to extreme acceleration limited altitude operation range and narrow temperature operation range especially at low operating temperatures. Additionally they should remain safe and not be susceptible to premature detonation.

In these environments weight and volume are at a premium and an increase in system weight and volume presents packaging and weight management problems which may require significant engineering time to solve.

Embodiments provide a device and process for making major improvements in performance reliability and producibility that overcome current limitations. One embodiment of the present invention provides a system for piston actuators the system comprising a configuration with lead styphnate LS charge material and Nichrome bridgewire wherein the configuration provides very high reliability including detonator and piston actuator applications wherein resistance of the bridgewire is carefully controlled to optimize power transfer from the firing circuit to the bridgewire and charge material.

An embodiment provides a piston actuator device the device comprising a header an electrode within the header a glass insulator within the header a bridgewire forming a circuit between the header and the electrode wherein resistance of the bridgewire is controlled to ensure that a minimum all fire energy of the device is available from a firing circuit a ferrule assembled to the header bridgewire assembly charge material within the ferrule adapted to be activated by a current through the bridgewire whereby very high reliability is provided a piston and a housing. In another embodiment the charge material consists essentially of lead styphnate LS whereby flow overcomes effects of voids and fissures fills gap between header and glass fill seal and flows around circumference of the bridgewire increasing surface area. For further embodiments the LS is about 30 hr mil whereby the particle size is reduced improving the flow. For another embodiment the bridgewire comprises a nickel chromium alloy. In others the bridgewire resistance is about 2 to 4 ohms whereby power transfer to the bridgewire is optimized. For yet others the bridgewire resistance is about 3 ohms. In another embodiment reliability exceeds about 99.5 percent. Other embodiments have a minimum gap of about 0.001 inch between the ferrule and the housing the gap preventing the ferrule and the charge material within from being disturbed during assembly of the housing. In a yet additional embodiment function time comprises a minimum of about 38 microseconds an average of about 58 microseconds and a maximum of about 134 microseconds.

Another embodiment provides a miniature piston actuator system the system comprising a miniature piston actuator comprising a header an electrode within the header a glass insulator within the header a bridgewire forming a circuit between the header and the electrode a ferrule assembled to the header electrode assembly charge material within the ferrule adapted to be activated by a current through the bridgewire whereby very high reliability is provided a piston and a housing wherein the miniature piston actuator is an electro explosive device EED comprising part of an electronic thermal battery initiator ETBI to provide a mechanical output to initiate a thermal battery whereby the system provides very high reliability. For further embodiments the charge material consists essentially of lead styphnate LS whereby flow overcomes effects of voids and fissures fills gap between header and glass fill seal and flows around circumference of the bridgewire increasing surface area and the bridgewire comprises a nickel chromium alloy. In an embodiment there is a minimum gap of about 0.001 inch between the ferrule and the housing the gap preventing the ferrule and the charge material within from being disturbed cocked during assembly of the housing. For another embodiment reliability exceeds about 99.5 percent. For others the header and ferrule comprises gold plating.

Yet another embodiment provides a method for manufacturing a miniature piston actuator the method comprising the steps of providing a header electrode assembly welding a bridgewire to electrode of the header electrode assembly installing a ferrule applying charge material installing a housing and installing a piston. In one embodiment the piston actuator comprises charge material consisting essentially of lead styphnate LS whereby flow overcomes effects of voids and fissures fills gap between header and glass fill seal and flows around circumference of the bridgewire increasing surface area and the bridgewire comprises a nickel chromium alloy. For others function time of the piston actuator comprises a minimum of about 38 microseconds an average of about 58 microseconds and a maximum of about 134 microseconds. Yet further embodiments comprise gold plating of the header of the header assembly and the ferrule. For still further embodiments the step of milling the LS to about 30 hr mil whereby the particle size is reduced improving the flow. In an additional embodiment the miniature piston actuator is an electro explosive device EED comprising part of an electronic thermal battery initiator ETBI to provide a mechanical output to initiate a thermal battery.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

Safety military and aerospace applications demand the highest level of reliability. One shot reliability is imperative in missiles weapons and aerospace applications where extreme conditions of shock load and vibration exist. Reliable operation overcomes less than adequate thermal interface between the bridgewire and the charge material. Embodiments use an electro explosive device EED configuration with lead styphnate charge material and Nichrome bridgewire. This configuration in piston actuator applications is novel. In particular in the present embodiment resistance of the bridgewire is carefully controlled to ensure that the minimum all fire energy of this EED is within the capability of the firing circuit. Testing shows that it provides an improved thermal interface between the bridgewire and the charge material resulting in surprisingly improved reliability. Two hundred twenty six of these Piston Actuators were tested at different temperature conditions cold ambient and hot with no failures.

Series of tests were conducted to determine the ability of embodiments to reliably perform. Test protocols comprised simulated aging thermal shock cold temperature 43 C elevated temperature 145 F Neyer D tests all fire testing no fire testing output force testing high 160 lbs low 84 lbs mean 107 lbs. STD 20 . Testing produced unexpected results for very greatly enhanced reliability as mentioned a sample of 226 units produced 226 successful operations exceeding 99.55 .

Piston actuator embodiment configurations with NiCr Bridgewire Lead Styphnate overcome voids around the bridgewire area as the Lead Styphnate flows between the header and the glass seal additionally the LS has better chance to flow around the circumference of the bridgewire more fully encapsulating it providing increased surface area. This induces more heat from the bridgewire to the Lead Styphnate for a greatly more reliable function.

Laser spot weld embodiments overcome weld blowout through the ferrule wall minimize any cracking and provide additional pull strength. About four welds were located around the circumference at the ferrule header interface. Laser spot welding pull test on unwelded units exhibited a retaining force range of from 0.2 lb to 7.0 lb. Representative press fit values are ferrule ID 0.0617 0.0622 and header diameter of 0.0625 0.0630 .

Embodiments overcome failure modes comprising ferrule shift during assembly charge material separation during cold soak charge material separation during launch charge material separation and bridgewire break during launch and ferrule shift during launch.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. Each and every page of this submission and all contents thereon however characterized identified or numbered is considered a substantive part of this application for all purposes irrespective of form or placement within the application. This specification is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure.

