---

title: Method and system for removal of noise in signal
abstract: A method and system for reception of electromagnetic waves in which interference with radio frequencies of other electronics devices occurs comprising;


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09172476&OS=09172476&RS=09172476
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09172476
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130509
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 477 282 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 824 544 entitled Method and System for Recovery of Missing Spectral Information in Wideband Signal by Lam H. Nguyen and Thong Do filed May 22 2012 which is a continuation in part and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 416 062 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 861 588 entitled Apparatus and Method for Sampling and Reconstruction of Wide Bandwidth Signals below Nyquist Rate by Lam H. Nguyen and Trac Tran filed Mar. 9 2012 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The present invention relates to inter alia noise extraction from a signal. The signal may be used for example in the generation of images from projection measurements. Examples of images generated from projection measurements include two dimensional and three dimensional SAR synthetic aperture radar systems. SAR is a form of radar in which the large highly directional rotating antenna used by conventional radar is replaced with many low directivity small stationary antennas scattered over some area near or around the target area. For example as shown in FIG. 1 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 805 098 to McCorkle hereby incorporated by reference an aircraft mounted detector array is utilized to take ground radar measurements. Other examples of systems using projection measurements are fault inspection systems using acoustic imaging submarine sonar for imaging underwater objects seismic imaging system for tunnel detection oil exploration geological surveys etc. and medical diagnostic tools such as sonograms echocardiograms x ray CAT computer aided tomography equipment and MRI magnetic resonance imaging equipment.

Wide bandwidth signals are widely used in communications and radar systems. Over the past few decades the research and development of ultra wideband UWB systems have achieved significant progress. One of the key features of these UWB systems is the penetration capability. For example the U.S. Army has been developing UWB radar systems for detection of difficult targets in various applications such as foliage penetration ground penetration and sensing through the walls of buildings or harriers sensing through the wall . Therefore these systems must operate in the low frequency spectrum that spans from under 100 MHz to several GHz in order to achieve the penetration capability. In addition to the low frequency requirement for penetration the systems must employ wide bandwidth signals to achieve the desired resolution. Thus the signal occupies a wide spectrum that also shared by radio TV cellular phone and other systems. For example radio waves in general usage have wavelengths ranging from hundreds of meters to about one millimeter and are used for transmission of data via modulation. Television mobile phones wireless networking and amateur radio all use radio waves. The use of the radio spectrum is regulated by many governments through frequency allocation.

The frequency allocation and utilization problem becomes a big challenge and only gets worse over time since additional radar and communication systems that need the penetration feature must operate in this low frequency region of the spectrum. The FCC and international treaties in general restrict the hands between 5 and 30 MHz since they are particularly useful for long distance communications.

There are at least two challenges for any UWB system radar or communications . The first is that the system must operate in the presence of other systems. The received UWB signal through the channel is contaminated by signals from all systems that operate in the same spectrum. Because of this the received signal would have a spectral content that includes many frequency subbands that are corrupted by energy from all other sources. Within these corrupted subbands the energy of the received signal is much smaller than that from the interference sources. In the time domain the signal is very noisy and might be embedded in the noise floor. Except for targets with very large amplitudes most targets may not be detectable in the presence of interference noise. Conventional techniques usually detect the corrupted frequency bands due to the interference sources by searching for the spikes in the spectral domain. The fast Fourier transform FFT bins that correspond to the contaminated frequency bands are zeroed out. This technique results in severe sidelobes in the time or spatial domain of the output data and imagery due to the sharp transitions frequency samples with no information in the frequency domain. In addition simply suppressing the information in the contaminated frequency bands will reduce the signal to noise ratio SNR of the received signal.

Interference signals from competing frequencies are essentially large amplitude noise that often masks the underlying radar signals. Various interference noise suppression techniques have been proposed to date. The simplest approach that has been widely employed in practice involves implementing adaptive notch filters whose notches in the frequency domain correspond to interference noise components to suppress the energy from interference noise signals. Depending on the nature of the interference noise sources this notch filter approach would result in i large sidelobes in the time domain of the received signal and ii reduced target amplitudes. It is generally desirable to extract the interference noise from signal in time domain for best performance. To avoid the side effects of the notch filter implementation. Miller et al. RFI Suppression for Ultra Wideband Radar vol. 33 no. 4 October 1997 herein incorporated by reference proposes another interference noise suppression technique that estimates the noise components and subtracts in the time domain the estimated noise signal from the received radar signal. However the technique requires complete knowledge of the interference sources. The technique is based on the assumption that the interference sources consist of a number of narrowband amplitude modulation AM and frequency modulation FM channels. This assumption is no longer valid with the current frequency spectrum in which most of the communications and TV channels are broadcasting using various digital modulation schemes. Within each communications channel the radio frequency RF signal looks like white noise in the time domain with its amplitude and phase quickly varying with respect to time. Thus it is not possible to use the Miller technique to estimate these RF interference RFI components with digital modulation contents.

Another challenge for any UWB system radar or communications is that the system must avoid transmitting energy in certain frequency bands that are specified by the frequency management agencies. Thus the received UWB signal would have a spectral content that is not contiguous due to spectral notches that correspond to the prohibited frequency bands . The notches in the frequency domain translate to severe noise and artifacts in the resulting data and imagery. Depending on the size of the spectral notches state of the art systems might have to process each contiguous band separately to get results from multiple bands. Since the results from multiple bands are interpreted independently this creates another challenge for the detection and discrimination stages.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention is directed to a technique that directly estimates the interference noise components in the time domain and extracts them from radar data. An advantage of this technique is that the time domain extraction of RFI noise does not result in i large sidelobes in the time domain of the received signal and ii reduced target amplitudes. The second advantage is that it is completely adaptive with the changing environment and does not assume any knowledge amplitude frequency band modulation scheme etc. of the sources of interference. The invented technique simultaneously estimates i the signal embedded in interference noise which may be for example a radar signal with large amplitudes and ii the interference noise signal.

A preferred embodiment system for reception of electromagnetic waves in spectrum in which interference with radio frequencies of other electronics devices occurs comprises at least one transmitter far transmitting first electromagnetic radiation at a wide range of frequencies including frequencies in which RF devices transmit at least one receiver for receiving the received signal comprising the first electromagnetic radiation and radio frequency interfering signal data a first memory portion for storing data relating to the transmitted signal waveforms and a second memory portion for storing radio frequency interfering signal data a switch for periodically allowing the radio frequency interfering signal data to enter the second memory portion from the receiver the at least one processor operatively connected to the receiver the first memory portion and the second memory portion the at least one processor operating to process the received signal containing radio frequency interfering signal data and first electromagnetic radiation by matching the received signal against data relating to the transmitted signal waveforms from the first memory portion and radio frequency interfering signal data from the second memory portion the at least processor operating to compare the received signal to the radio frequency interfering signal data from the second memory portion and extract the portion of the received signal attributable to the radio frequency interfering signal data.

Optionally the first and second memory portions comprise first and second dictionaries and the switch for periodically allowing the radio frequency interfering signal data to enter the second dictionary comprises software which incrementally sends the radio frequency interfering signal data into the second dictionary while the transmitter is not transmitting. As an optional alternative the switch may be a hardware switch that incrementally sends the radio frequency interfering signal data into the second memory portion while the transmitter is not transmitting.

Optionally the first memory portion may be constructed using time independent transmitted signal waveforms which correspond to received signals reflected back from objects in the scene of interest located at specific distances and the processor may be operated to match the receive data with a stored transmitted signal waveforms to determine the distance of the target or targets.

Optionally the second memory portion comprises radio frequency interfering signal data received at intervals in time during which no signal is transmitted the radio frequency interfering signal data being broken into segments using a sliding window mechanism to store different segments into different columns of the second memory portion the at least one processor operating to compare the received signals to the match the received signals with the best matches from each of the first and second dictionaries.

Optionally a combined memory is formed from the first and second memory portions and the at least one processor correlates the received signal to the entries in the combined memory to find the best matching columns and to select those columns associated with second memory portion to estimate the radio frequency interfering signal data in the received signal and to extract the estimated radio frequency interfering signal data from the received signal to generate an improved radar signal.

Optionally the first and second memory portions may take the form of first and second dictionaries having the same number of columns. Optionally each column in the first memory portion comprises a vector that has a length n elements arranged in a column that corresponds to the range swath of the radar and the columns range in time and distance such that each column represents a target at a different distance.

Optionally the Lnorm is used to find the best matching columns in the combined memory using the equation

Optionally as an alternative. Lnorm can be used to find the best matching columns in the combined memory portion using the equation

Optionally each column in the second memory portion represents the radio frequency interfering signal data and the columns in the first and second memory portions have same dimensions. The columns of data in the second memory portion may correlate to radio frequency interfering signal data shifted in time and by taking the L0 norm the received signal is matched with radio frequency interfering signal data shifted in time. As a further option the radio frequency interfering signal data may be subtracted out by performing Lnorm.

Optionally the signal data may be represented by y x r w D De w where were y is the sparse signal ris the radio frequency interfering signal data wis a dense noise source and generally insignificant in magnitude eis the sparse noise source and can be captured with only a few significant entries but each can be large in magnitude represents the coefficients of the indices of signal data Drepresents the first memory portion and Drepresents the second memory portion.

As further options the composite image may be formed using one of orthogonal matching pursuit basis pursuit gradient projection matching pursuit orthogonal matching pursuit regularized matching pursuit or subspace pursuit.

A preferred method for reception of electromagnetic waves in spectrum in which interference with radio frequencies of other electronics devices occurs comprises

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of imitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the fall scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the intended to include the plural thrills as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs it will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a sparse recovery model and reconstruction scheme. The invention allows the reconstruction of a wideband signal that has missing frequency bands.

Although the invention is demonstrated with the application of this technique to radar applications the sampling and reconstruction technique of the present invention also works with other communication systems including television reception and transmission headphones with noise filters and other communications devices especially ones that employ ultra high frequency modulation schemes.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a sparsity driven spectral recovery SSR technique that coherently estimates the spectral information in the frequency bands of the received data that may be either completely corrupted due to the presence of interference sources or nonexistent because of no transmission in the prohibited frequency bands . A key innovative concept of the invention is that although the information is lost in the received signal due to the contaminated and missing frequency bands the signal can be modeled as a linear combination of spectrally filtered and time shifted versions of the transmitted waveform. Thus by constructing a dictionary that comprises spectrally filtered and time shifted versions of the transmit waveform the technique solves for a sparse solution of the coefficients that represent the significant components contributing to the received signal. The reconstruction using the preferred embodiment sparsity driven spectral recovery SSR technique on spectrally corrupted and spectrally notched data is well matched with the original data while conventional techniques only attempt to reduce the resulting artifacts rather than recover the original information.

An advantage of the preferred embodiment technique is that it not only suppresses noise and artifacts from noisy and frequency notched signals such as UWB data it also recovers the original complex data both amplitude and phase . Although the amplitude information is important for the first stage of signal or target detection using this technique the target signature is preserved in the complex data that includes the phase content which is the key for target discrimination and classification and coherent change detection.

Another advantage of this technique is that because the contiguous no abrupt changes spectral content is recovered this technique can achieve better performance with higher SNR in the suppression of the artifacts in the resulting data and imagery than other techniques that only attempt to reduce the noise and artifacts. In addition since the resulting data comprises one single substantially contiguous frequency hand instead of multiple non contiguous subbands subsequent processing image formation target detection and discrimination. etc. steps are simple because they do not have to perform on multiple data sets. In addition more information wideband without gaps would translate to better performance.

A third advantage of this technique is that it can also be employed to extrapolate the spectral information outside the included band. Thus the technique effectively increases the bandwidth and improves the resolution of the signal. This will result in better performance in the detection and discrimination of targets.

Although a preferred embodiment of the invention discloses application of this technique for radar applications only it is within the skill of the art to use the spectral recovery techniques of the present invention apply to such applications as communications systems including UWB communication systems.

In accordance with the principles of the present invention the influence of noise signals is effectively removed from radar signals via sparse recovery. The preferred embodiment technique estimates and subtracts noise signals from the contaminated radar signals in the time domain. Therefore it does not suffer from high sidelobe and reduced target amplitude effects as in existing notch filtering approaches. Additionally the technique is completely adaptive with the changing environment and does net assume any knowledge amplitude frequency band modulation scheme how many interference sources are present etc. of the interference sources. The preferred embodiment technique is based on a sparse recovery approach that simultaneously solves for i radar signals embedded in noise with large amplitudes and ii interference noise signals.

During the standard radar transmit and receive cycle a pulse repetition frequency PRF is established where the signal is first transmitted by the transmitter. Depending upon the range or distance in which targets are to be detected the receiver waits a time interval t 2R c where R is the range and c is the speed of flight. During the operation of the preferred embodiment however after a certain number of PRF cycles transmission is stopped and the noise is observed whereupon the data switch is programmed to allow noise data to enter the dictionary . Noise data is preferably entered into the dictionary using a shifted window mechanism or approach. That is data for the first column of the dictionary is entered from the noise signal i.e. the return signal occurring when no transmission from the transmitter is taking place . To enter the second column the window is effectively shifted a minute amount via the sliding window and the second column is data realized from the shifted interval of the noise signal. Similarly columns of noise data are entered into the dictionary during the time interval when the switch diverts the data from the signal recovery processor into the dictionary . Noise data using the sliding window approach may be entered by an additional processor or processor or such operations may be performed by the signal recovery processor. Note further that the switch may be embedded or realized in software or may comprise a demultiplexer configuration in a manner known to those skilled in the art. Moreover the channel needs not connect through the switch but instead may be connected to the receiver . Moreover receiver may comprise a plurality of receivers one of which is tasked with capturing noise from the received signal.

The noise in the return signal is detected during the intervals during which the transmitter does not transmit. Hence there is no signal component present in the return signal in this case. It is noted that the signal may be transmitted and received in a matter of nanoseconds Thus the interval between the PRF cycles and the reception of the noise only signal for the purposes of entering data into the dictionary may occur within a matter of nanoseconds or tens of nanoseconds. The channel may include a change detector to detect changes or fluctuations in the noise such that when the noise signal changes or fluctuates substantially the interval during which noise data is captured is more frequent. Likewise if the noise does not change rapidly and remains relatively constant then the interval between entering the noise data into the dictionary is greater allowing more time to be devoted to the standard PRF cycles of transmitting and receiving the wide band signals.

At other intervals when the transmitter are turned on the data switch allows the received signals that include noisy radar signals to pass to the signal recovery processor for processing.

In addition to the noise dictionary the signal recovery processor uses dictionary that includes many time shifted versions of the transmitted waveform. The upper or first dictionary includes the time shifted versions of the original transmit waveform. This data may be stored in column beginning with data at the beginning of the range of interest. For example if the range of interest is between 1000 meters to 5000 meters the first column of data in the dictionary may be a pulse representing the appearance of a target at 1000 meters. The second column of data may then represent a pulse returned from a target at a short increment of distance from 1000 meters the increment depending upon the number of column entries of data and the range of interest.

The signal recovery processor utilizes the noise dictionary to estimate and extract the noise signal components from the noisy receive signals to generate clean radar signals. Specifically the lower or second dictionary includes the column of noise data which are to be extracted out of the processed signal in combination with the processing of the time shifted versions of the transmitted waveform included in dictionary . The output of the signal recovery processor is the receive signal with contiguous spectral content. In a typical communications system the output signals from the signal recovery processor may be processed by a detector not shown in . In radar block diagram of the output signals from the signal recovery processor are sent to the image processor and subsequently to the target detection and discrimination . The resulting synthetic aperture radar SAR image and detection information are then visualized by the display . A further description of the image formation is found in U.S. Patent Application No. 2010 0141508 entitled Method and System For Forming an Image with Enhanced Contrast and or Reduced Noise by Lam H. Nguyen and Jeffrey Sichina published Jun. 10 2010 herein incorporated by reference.

Referring now to the dictionary this dictionary is constructed from time shifted versions of the transmit signal s t . In the absence of any spectral notches and interference sources the received signal y t would be simply the summation of reflections of all targets within the radar s range swath and beamwidth i.e. ideally the received signal would be composed of a linear combination of delayed and weighted replicas of the transmitted pulse s t as follows 

It is important to note that although the observed scene might be complex with many objects the complexity M of the receive data record is significantly reduced since the reflections from all targets that have the same range distance from the radar transmitter receiver would be represented by a single reflection coefficient and phase. The publication by Lam Nguyen and Trac Tran Robust Recovery of Synthetic Aperture Radar Data from Uniformly Under Sampled Measurements IEEE IGARSS Jun. 28 2011 hereby incorporated by reference describes how the model can robustly represent real SAR data and is herein incorporated by reference.

As shown in the sparse signal sparse noise model for the received radar data record y where i can be considered as the PRI index may be represented as 5 Using this model the original SAR signal xis assumed to be sparse with respect to D the time shifted dictionary in Box of constructed from our transmitted signal s t . With the data collection strategy as illustrated in and using the assumption that the interference noise signal ris relatively stationary within a small temporal window the interference noise signal ralso has its own sparse representation r De where Dis the time adaptive RFI noise sparsifying dictionary Box constructed from the either or both nearby pure noise data records y past and or y future . More specifically if yand yrepresents the N point noise sequences collected at time n from data record p and f respectively yand ycan be represented as two column vectors as follows 1 2 . . . 1 1 2 . . . 1 6 6A Next the noise dictionary can be constructed from a collection of such vectors at various times n ranging from 0 to N 1 as shown in the matrix below 7 In other words columns of the noise dictionary as represented in equation 7 are N point noise segments of different phase shifts extracted directly from y past and y future or anticipated via a sliding window mechanism moving a window of size N to various different locations in the RFI data record to extract various RFI noise dictionary atoms . Note that more entries can be added to the dictionary since a few past noise records can be exploited rather than just a single noise record y. In fact a sophisticated learning dictionary can be considered to further improve the dictionary and hence the resulting sparse representation. The trade off is generally in the computational complexity of the learning or loading data into dictionary as well as the recovery algorithm. In practice construction of a dictionary using equation 7 is efficient and little performance can be gained from venturing far away temporally.

Referring now to a flow diagram of the methodology of a preferred embodiment is set forth. In Box a time shifted dictionary is generated. This may occur on a one time basis at the start of operations or may be updated as desired to reflect changes in the target area or target range. The circle represents the step of inputting the time shifted data into the dictionary . In Box the receiver is operational to receive either waveforms reflected from targets in combination with noise or when the transmitter is shut off during certain predetermined intervals noise signal data. Diamond reflects the operation of switch by which the noise data is directed into the RFI noise dictionary as described above. Box represents the input of the noise data into the dictionary . Continuing in the flow chart of in Box using the data from both dictionaries and the system solves for the sparse solution that represents both noise and data as represented mathematically by equation 5 .

Continuing in the description of the flow chart of in Box the noise contents of the inputted signal yis estimated as r Deand in Box the signal is reconstructed by extracting the estimated noise contents as x y r y Dewhere the dense noise win equation 5 has been ignored. The steps through are then repeated with the acquisition of new data in another aperture in order to form a complete image. Box represents the image formulation and Box represents the display of the final SAR image. Reference is made to U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0141508 herein incorporated by reference for the further information relating to Boxes and .

Referring hack again in equation 5 the wis the system s dense noise with small bounded energy w . The main difference between the two noise sources wand eis that eis sparse and can be captured with only a few significant entries but each can be large in magnitude whereas wis dense and generally insignificant in magnitude. This leads to the following optimization problem which can be solved approximately with orthogonal matching pursuit OMP 

A number of recovery techniques in the current Compressed Sensing CS literature can be employed to solve the optimization problem in Equation 8 . In a preferred embodiment Orthogonal Matching Pursuit OMP was used due to its simplicity recovery robustness and fast computation. OMP is also very simple to set up the only required parameter is the sparsity level K. Once the sparsest coefficient vector is found the raw data record is recovered as in Equation 9 . All of the recovered data records are then supplied to the back projection image formation algorithm to produce the final SAR image.

An extension of Matching Pursuit MP is its orthogonal version Orthogonal Matching Pursuit OMP . The main difference with MP is that coefficients are the orthogonal projection of the signal f on the dictionary D. In fact this algorithm solves the sparse problem 

The noise extraction technique of the present invention was tested and evaluated using the data from the U.S. Army Research Laboratory ARL UWB low frequency SAR that transmits radar signals occupying the frequency spectrum from 50 to 1150 MHz. Interference noise data were collected from the real environment with the antenna pointing toward Washington. D.C. where a typical example is shown in . For each aperture location i where radar data are collected the noise record was randomly selected and added to the raw radar data record. The noise only records used to construct the corresponding noise dictionary were chosen such that the time interval between when the noise records and the radar records are collected are at least 1 ms apart. This delay amount yields a typical radar pulse repetition frequency of 1 kHz.

For the three cases shown in the level of RFI suppression which is different than the strength of the noise interference turns out to be 11.3 13.5 and 14.7 dB respectively. In all cases as illustrated in the follow up where the three data points associated with are in square boxes an average of more than 10 dB of RFI energy level is consistently suppressed after the image formation stage i.e. a signal to noise ratio SNR is measured in the SAR image domain . When the noise level increases the suppression level can get up to 15 dB and levels off at around 15.5 dB. In addition to radar the invented noise extraction technique works with any communications systems that suffer from interference noise. Examples of such practical systems and applications include radars operating in combative environments with frequent enemy jamming audio recordings with background noise noise cancellation headphones in noisy environments such as airplanes airports construction sites etc.

The practical applications of the invention in relation to radar include wide area mapping surveillance target detection and discrimination concealed target detection through the wall building mapping tunnel detection ground penetration radar collision and obstacle imaging radar. Also the present invention may be used for radar jamming avoidance the noise being the jamming signal . The present invention may be used with high speed data links and networks. Another practical application is usage in noise cancelling systems such as headphones car and recording technology.

An advantage of the preferred embodiment described is that it is adaptive with the changing environment. It does not assume any knowledge amplitude frequency band modulation scheme number of noise sources etc. of the interference sources. A preferred embodiment technique directly estimates and subtracts interference noise signals from the radar signals in the time domain. Therefore it does not suffer from 1 high sidelobes and 2 reduced target amplitude effects as in existing notch filtering approaches. The preferred embodiment technique simultaneously solves for i the radar signals embedded in interference noise with large amplitudes and ii the interference noise signals within one unified sparsity driven optimization framework. Such techniques operate in the low frequency spectrum that spans from under 100 MHz to several GHz in order to penetrate foliage walls etc. and employ wide bandwidth signals to achieve the desired resolution. Other approaches such as notched filters result in i large sidelobes in the time domain of the received signal and ii reduced target amplitudes. In addition to radar the invented noise extraction technique works with any communications systems that suffer from interference noise.

The techniques provided by the embodiments herein may be implemented on an integrated circuit chip not shown . The chip design is created in a graphical computer programming language and stored in a computer storage medium such as a disk tape physical hard drive or virtual hard drive such as in a storage access network . If the designer does not fabricate chips or the photolithographic masks used to fabricate chips the designer transmits the resulting design by physical means e.g. by providing a copy of the storage medium storing the design or electronically e.g. through the Internet to such entities directly or indirectly. The stored design is then converted into the appropriate format e.g. GDSII for the fabrication of photolithographic masks which typically include multiple copies of the chip design in question that are to be formed on a wafer. The photolithographic masks are utilized to define areas of the wafer and or the layers thereon to be etched or otherwise processed.

The resulting integrated circuit chips can be distributed by the fabricator in raw wafer form that is as a single wafer that has multiple unpackaged chips as a bare die or in a packaged form. In the latter case the chip is mounted in a single chip package such as a plastic carrier with leads that are affixed to a motherboard or other higher level carrier or in a multichip package such as a ceramic carrier that has either or both surface interconnections or buried interconnections . In any case the chip is then integrated with other chips discrete circuit elements and or other signal processing devices as part of either a an intermediate product such as a motherboard or b an end product. The end product can be any product that includes integrated circuit chips ranging from toys and other low end applications to advanced computer products having a display a keyboard or other input device and a central processor.

The embodiments herein may comprise hardware and software embodiments. The embodiments that are implemented in software include but are not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc. Furthermore the embodiments herein can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can comprise store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system for apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output I O devices including but not limited to receivers etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through interverting I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The Compressed Sensing theory asserts that under several mild conditions of the matrix S the above l norm minimization problem L norm is simply its number of significant non zero elements can be efficiently solved by recasting it as the following l norm convex optimization min and the original signal can be recovered as x Sa .

All of the recovered data records are then supplied to the time domain projection image formation algorithm to produce the final SAR image.

There are various techniques for solving the inverse linear system of equations for the sparsest a in the compressed sensing community which can be classified into two categories 

In this implementation the orthogonal matching pursuit technique may be employed as described in J. Tropp and A. Gilbert Signal recovery from random measurements via orthogonal matching pursuit IEEE Trans on Information Theory vol. 53 no. 12 pp. 4655 4666 December 2007 hereby incorporated by reference to solve for a due to its simplicity recovery robustness and fast computation. This algorithm is graphically illustrated in .

In the vector space Cof N dimensional signals vector x can be represented as x a where is called the sparsifying matrix which in other words the representation through can be and in many cases should be close to the original signal x. The sparsifying matrix is said to be complete if its columns span the entire N dimensional space. The signal x is said to be strictly K sparse when there are only K non zero components in a. When the sorted magnitudes of a decay very quickly and x can be well approximated with only K components then x is said to be K compressible. The effectiveness of the recovery algorithm of a class of signal x heavily depends on the sparsest representation of the signal class.

In standard compressed sensing fixed linear transform bases such as the DCT FFT and the discrete wavelet transform DWT or a combination of all three are often employed to obtain sparsity. In the UWB SAR system the transmitted pulse is a monocycle impulse with an approximated bandwidth range of 300 3000 MHz. Current collected raw data captured in the 8 receivers do not exhibit any common sparse pattern. In other words a quick spectrum analysis reveals that the raw data is not time sparse or frequency sparse or even wavelet sparse. Hence a na ve direct application of Compressed Sensing CS via random projection with Fourier cosine or wavelet bases yields disappointing results.

As used herein processor may include but is not limited to a computer central processing unit CPU microprocessor multiprocessor main frame computer personal computer or laptop computer.

As used herein the terminology matching pursuit means a technique for finding the best matching projections of multidimensional data onto an over complete dictionary. As stated in Wikipedia the basic idea is to represent a signal from Hilbert space as a weighted sum of functions called atoms taken from called atoms taken from D 

As used herein the terminology sparsity driven of sparsity driven is a relative term relating to the finding of a compressible solution which is intended to be treated broadly. For example a sparse matrix is a matrix with enough zeros that it pays to take advantage of them commonly interpreted from an economics view point in that if one can save time and memory by exploiting the zeros then a matrix is sparse. The terminology sparsity refers to the selection of a model within a hierarchy of model classes that yields a compact representation i.e. a model that depends on only a few of the observations selecting a small subset of features for classification or visualization. Selection of an optimal representation which is sufficiently sparse enables efficient computation by optimization techniques and alleviates the extreme difficulty encountered without sufficient sparsity.

As used herein the terminology target area means area of interest which may be for example a scene an animal or human body or portion thereof face as in face recognition object ground region field landscape aerial environment or a combination thereof.

The term noise as used herein relates to observation noise. There are many sources that cause noise in the resulting observed signal. Noise can be divided into two categories additive noise and multiplicative noise. System noise thermal noise quantization noise self interference noise radio frequency interference RFI noise are some examples of the additive noise. Multiplicative noise is much more difficult to deal with since it is data dependent. Some sources that cause multiplicative noise include timing jitter in data sampling small aperture size compared to image area the under sampling of aperture samples the non uniform spacing between aperture samples errors in position measurement system etc. Multiplicative noise results in undesired sidelobes that create high noise floor in the image and thus limit the ability to detect targets.

As used herein the terminology dictionary means an organized listing of data stored in machine readable form for reference. The dictionary may be located in any type of storage or memory for storage of data. As an example the dictionary may comprise time shifted versions of the transmitted probing signal s t .

As used herein the terminology spectral means of or relating to a spectrum. The terminology spectrum refers to a band portion or region of the electromagnetic spectrum which may or may not be continuous for example the radio spectrum is the region of the electromagnetic spectrum spanning the radio frequency range. The terminology spectra is the plural of spectrum.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

