---

title: Rights management for content aggregators
abstract: An arbitrator receives a request to use a plurality of content in an aggregation. The arbitrator determines whether there exist proper rights to use the plurality of content in the aggregation. The requestor is communicated whether permission is granted. The determination may include negotiating for extending right of use by an arbitrator. This negotiation may communicate with content hosting service(s) or the content author(s). The determining step retrieves, stores, and maintains rights information to and from an information store which is accessible by the rights management system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262792&OS=09262792&RS=09262792
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09262792
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131024
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 837 341 filed Mar. 15 2013 the entire content and disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the field of collaborative applications and more particularly to management of content applications over data communications networks.

Online data aggregators are known. Such online data aggregators may offer aggregation services on a standalone basis or in conjunction with other services such as portfolio tracking and on line bill payment provided as a website service. Many established companies with an Internet presence appear to recognize the need of offering an aggregation service to enhance other web based services which can attract more visitors. Offering a data aggregation service to a website is attractive because of the potential that it will frequently draw users of the service to the hosting website.

Over time the transfer of large amounts of account data from the account provider to the aggregator s server could develop into a comprehensive profile of a user. The user s profile may include i their banking ii credit card transactions and balances iii securities transactions and portfolios and iv travel history and travel preferences. As the sensitivity to data protection considerations grows it is likely there will be a considerable focus on the extent to which data aggregators may seek to use data either for their own purposes or to share it on some basis.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for a program product system and method in which an arbitrator of a rights management system receives a request to use a plurality of content in an aggregation. The arbitrator determines whether there exist proper rights to use the plurality of content in the aggregation. The requestor is communicated whether permission is granted. The determination may include negotiating for extending right of use by an arbitrator. This negotiation may communicate with content hosting service s or the content author s . The determining step retrieves stores and maintains rights information to and from an information store which is accessible by the rights management system.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code instructions embodied thereon.

Any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. Computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of a computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java note the term s Java may be subject to trademark rights in various jurisdictions throughout the world and are used here only in reference to the products or services properly denominated by the marks to the extent that such trademark rights may exist Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on a user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the Figures. A B and C collectively make up a functional block diagram illustrating various portions of distributed data processing system including network arbitrator aggregators and authors and content hosting service and content consumer arbitration service computer aggregator computer content author computer communication units processors input output i o units memory devices persistent storage devices display devices external device sets random access memory RAM devices cache memory devices modules mods arbitration service s w software collection s w aggregation s w arbitration interface s w 3 locations and content author s w . In particular arbitrator includes an arbitration service computer of computer sub system aggregators and each include an aggregator computer of computer sub system and authors and each include a content author computer of computer sub system .

It should be appreciated that A B and C taken together provide only an illustration of one implementation that is system and do not imply any limitations with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environment may be made especially with respect to current and anticipated future advances in cloud computing distributed computing smaller computing devices network communications and the like.

As shown in computer sub system is in many respects representative of the various computer sub system s in the present invention. Accordingly several portions of computer sub system will now be discussed in the following paragraphs.

Computer sub system may be a laptop computer tablet computer netbook computer personal computer PC a desktop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone or any programmable electronic device capable of communicating in distributed data processing system via network . Arbitration service s w is a representative software module and is a collection of machine readable instructions and data that is used to create manage and control certain software functions that will be discussed in detail below.

Computer sub system is capable of communicating with other computer sub systems via network see such as computer sub systems and for example. Network can be for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or a combination of the two and can include wired wireless or fiber optic connections. In general network can be any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between systems.

As further shown in computer sub system is shown as a block diagram with many double arrows. These double arrows no separate reference numerals represent a communications fabric which provides communications between various components of sub system . This communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example the communications fabric can be implemented at least in part with one or more buses.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media. It is further noted that now and or in the near future i external device s may be able to supply some or all memory for sub system and or ii devices external to sub system may be able to provide memory for sub system .

Arbitration service s w is in many respects representative of the various software modules of the present invention and is stored in persistent storage for access and or execution by one or more of the respective computer processors usually through one or more memories of memory . Persistent storage is at least more persistent than a signal in transit is but the persistent storage may of course be substantially less persistent than permanent storage. Arbitration service s w may include both machine readable and performable instructions and or substantive data e.g. the type of data stored in a database etc. . In this particular embodiment persistent storage includes a magnetic hard disk drive. To name some possible variations persistent storage may include a solid state drive a semiconductor storage device read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage may also be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices external to sub system via network . In these examples communications unit includes one or more network interface cards. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links. Any software modules discussed herein may be downloaded to a persistent storage device such as persistent storage device through a communications unit such as communications unit .

I O interface s allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected locally in data communication with arbitration service computer . For example I O interface provides a connection to external devices . External devices will typically include devices such as a keyboard keypad a touch screen and or some other suitable input device. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention for example arbitration service s w can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media. In these embodiments the relevant software may or may not be loaded in whole or in part onto persistent storage device via I O interface . I O interface also connects in data communication with display .

Display provides a mechanism to display data to a user and may be for example a computer monitor or a smart phone display screen.

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

The content creation step S identifies the creation of on line content such as for the Internet. The amount of content that is available on the Internet is voluminous. The content has all been created by entities such as one or both of authors and . A few examples of entities include but are not limited to i a person ii a group of people iii a computer algorithm s iv a legal entity such as a corporation or v a governmental unit. The authors and have a computer such as content author computer of computer sub system as shown in . Content author s w software which creates on line content includes but is not limited to i word processors ii spreadsheet editors iii browser page editors iv video and still photo editors and so on and so forth. After authors and create content the content may be hosted on for example content hosting service .

Once content is hosted on content hosting service the content may be available for aggregation. In most contexts an aggregator such as one or both of aggregators and refers to a website or computer software that aggregates a specific type of information from multiple online sources such as content hosting service . Examples of aggregators include i data aggregator an organization involved in assembling information from detailed databases on individuals and selling that information to others ii news aggregator a computer software or website that aggregates news from other news sources iii poll aggregator a website that aggregates polling data for upcoming elections iv review aggregator a website that aggregates reviews of movies or other products or services v search aggregator software that runs on a user s computer and fetches filters and organizes a specific search from various search engines vi social network aggregation the collection of content from multiple social network services or vii a video aggregator a website that collects and organizes online video sources. The two basic steps to assemble content aggregator search S and aggregator assembles content S are accomplished via collection s w and aggregation s w .

There are many aggregators that combine heterogeneous data in an attempt to form a complete story such as CNN.com or CNBC.com each of which can perform the functions of both aggregator and content author . For instance if a news aggregator wants to run a story about a United States political election the news aggregator would assemble pertinent information in the United States and international mainstream media about election related politics political candidates and current events as well as links to columnists concerning the subject. Some aggregators exclusively use computers to search and obtain their content while others rely on personnel and still others utilize a hybrid approach. Regardless of the aggregation subject matter or assembly method there exists a content author and a content rights holder for the aggregated content. Generally only the content owner has the ability to grant rights to the material. The rights might have been transferred either manually or automatically to another entity. To name one automatic assignment many companies have agreements with employees such that any material created by them while in the employment of the company is the property of the company. Some companies extend this agreement to include a number of years after the employee employer relationship has ended. In various embodiments the content author and the content rights holder may be or may not be the same entity however hereinafter for the purpose of discussion they are considered to be one in the same.

After the process of content assembly in aggregator search S and aggregator assembles content S the question arises as to whether the aggregator has permission to use the content as characterized by aggregator determines rights unknown S. The permissions the rights associated with the content are varied and may be complex. A few examples of rights include but are not limited to i reuse as is ii reuse freely iii reuse with permission iv reuse with privacy v reuse per service vi no reuse vii reuse as is with identification viii reuse with modification identification and ix unknown.

Sophisticated aggregation software can present information in ways that were previously difficult if not impossible. In order to accommodate new ways of presentation rights need to be extendable as production software programs become even richer in displaying content formation and style. Rights may be agreed upon ad hoc between parties as aggregator develops novel and meaningful online presentations. For example suppose the author is willing to allow reuse as long as his website is linked to from the location where the reuse occurs e.g. aggregator . In other words the content can be reused as long as there is attribution to the author and the author s content is not modified i.e. extract a summary out of an article and insert new hyperlinks inside the text . Consequently an extended right from reuse as is would be reuse as is with attribution link. This extended right can be negotiated between for example author and arbitrator to facilitate use of the content at aggregator .

The spectrum of content rights varies from reuse freely to no reuse. Although the permissions within the scale of reuse freely to no reuse appear clear and definite they can be ambiguous and questionable. For instance reuse with privacy may signify i the content can be reused as long as the author becomes anonymous ii any identification of individuals referred within the content is expunged as in blurring out faces iii the information is only used within an organization iv or any combination of the above. Another example of a right that is thought of as unequivocal but is actually extendable is when the right is no reuse. For example the owner might consider allowing an aggregator to use the content in a group with other similar content thus no reuse in this instance should be replaced by an extended version that is adapted to new situations and that can be negotiated by arbitrator . On the other side of the spectrum the right to reuse freely may cause unanticipated issues with the author . For instance an aggregator may reveal the most common periods of activity for an author which may cause problems with that author s employer or relatives. Many different kinds of information can be serendipitously revealed in an aggregation with reuse freely rights. It is common for an aggregator to summarize and represent content in diverse ways that were not originally envisioned by the content hosting services and also differently than originally authorized by the authors of the content. This ambiguity leads to hesitation and indecisiveness on the part of the aggregator and deficient aggregation of content. Therefore aggregators need content that is clear of ambiguous rights. Nevertheless relying on aggregators to aggregate data in all of the possible interesting and relevant ways and then determine permission places a considerable burden on the development agility of such organizations which in some cases may significantly delay or even prevent the creation of channels that would benefit the original authors in ways they did not anticipate.

After determining that the rights for at least some of the content assembled in step aggregator assembles content S are unknown in step aggregator determines rights unknown S processing proceeds to step aggregator asks arbitrator S . This step involves the aggregator asking arbitrator whether the assembled content is allowed to be used in a certain manner or usage. For instance using a former example an aggregator may ask arbitrator if it is permissible to reveal the most common periods of activity for an author . The arbitrator would address the issue as to whether the usage of content that would reveal the most common periods of activity for an author is allowable. This embodiment of the present invention provides a service that is focused on discovering if the rights associated with the content in question are determinate for a particular use of such content. In other words aggregator can request authorization to reuse content from other services and consult about the current authorization terms of content with the arbitrator . Further aggregator can ask arbitrator about any kind of extended rights for assembled content.

The arbitration service s w contains the code for maintaining storing and accessing information in an information store and the methods necessary to provide arbitrator . There is no need for all aggregators to keep track of rights for today s large number of content hosting services and content authors and because of the centralizing features of arbitrator as discussed herein. The information store includes but not limited to i author s identification information such as name address email etc. ii copies of content iii rights associated with the content iv extended rights such as how original rights need to be modified v date of entry vi active flag rather than replacing complete information records could be made inactive as newer records take precedence. The arbitration service s w may refer to an information store in the form of a i database ii flat file iii or any structure that would facilitate access to the information. The information within the information store is obtainable through methods whether custom or off the shelf that facilitate access by authorized users. For example such methods include but are not limited to a structured query language SQL interface.

As shown on step aggregator asks arbitrator S is the first stage of determining whether the extended rights exist to use the plurality of content in the aggregation. In particular aggregator may communicate with arbitrator via the arbitration interface s w which is the means to communicate among the computer sub system the computer sub system and the computer sub system . The arbitration interface s w of the arbitrator may vary considerably in its interface method among aggregators and authors . The methods include but are not limited to i human interaction such as a telephone conversion ii interaction using a fax machine iii communication over a network such as emailing requests and responses or off the shelf or custom developed applications that allow data transferring and iv using computer browsers for the inquiries and responses. For instance using a browser an aggregator can submit a freeform question along with contact information. If the arbitrator includes a previous customer record for the aggregator the aggregator might simply supply a customer identification along with the freeform question. The freeform question may also include certain pre determined checkboxes that would assist the arbitrator in determining the exact rights required. The aggregator can also supply any mock pages or example pages from previous aggregations that would facilitate the rights determination.

The aggregator is not the only entity that utilizes the arbitrator . Authors and content hosting services and even content consumers may utilize the information store of arbitrator . For instance author might be curious as to how his content rights are listed with the arbitrator . In a similar inquiry content consumers whom might be considering becoming authors could check with the arbitrator on how similar content that he is contemplating creating is used in aggregations and its associated rights.

Step aggregator asks arbitrator S may occur in parallel with steps S and S or afterward. For example in one embodiment aggregator assembles content from content hosting services while checking with arbitrator whether the content is pre authorized in terms of license by the owner for the intended use by aggregation service . The actual time period when the checking with the arbitrator occurs may vary considerably among aggregators . The time period includes but is not limited to i simultaneously ii near simultaneously iii in an agreed upon time of day perhaps at noon Eastern Standard Time iv and once a day perhaps a dump of all requests once a day .

After step aggregator asks arbitrator S processing proceeds on to step arbitrator finds rights S. When content is not cleared for usage in the arbitrator e.g. because arbitrator does not include a record of any rights or any extended rights for the queried content then the arbitrator contacts the content hosting service to check whether the license terms around the content allow for its usage in the intended manner e.g. can the content be used for statistic analysis in aggregate or can the content be republished without modification and with attribution . During step arbitrator finds rights S arbitrator can also attempt to negotiate new extended rights with content hosting service .

Proceeding to step arbitrator determines extended rights S . If the content hosting service indicates to arbitrator that the answer is contingent on author approval the arbitrator initiates contact with the author e.g. author or to request approval for that intended usage and to negotiate extended rights at the same time informing the aggregator that approval is pending. The outcomes to this inquiry include but are not limited to i the author or may grant the use based upon pre existing rights ii the author or may grant extended rights based upon an extension of previous rights such as in the former example of reuse as is with attribution link iii the author or may deny the use of the content and iv the author or does not respond. Notwithstanding the results of the inquiry the arbitrator transmits the results such as permitting the use of the plurality of content in the aggregation.

After step arbitrator determines extended rights S processing proceeds on to content is aggregated with appropriate rights S. Based upon the response from the arbitrator the aggregator may include the content in an aggregation or leave the content out of an aggregation. The aggregator may eliminate the content from the aggregated content for each author or who has declined to grant the rights.

Now that the embodiment s of have been fully discussed some additional discussion and or embodiments of the present invention will be discussed in the following paragraphs.

Diagram shows the interactions among the different entities. Content author publishes content to the content hosting service . Content consumer reads content from a content hosting service and reads from aggregator . Aggregator also reads from the content hosting service in order to assemble content. Aggregator asks the arbitrator about the rights of the content the aggregator wants to use via use . The arbitrator asks the content author about granting the use of the content via authorizes .

Rather than placing the burden on aggregators the invention addresses the enablement of a syndication model that orchestrates the requirements from sources of content and content hosting services in ways that allows authors to retain control of their content without stifling the creation of new services. The arbitrator is responsible for reaching out to the aggregator and or author to explain how the data will be utilized and whether the aggregator or author approves of that usage.

The arbitrator is responsible for hosting information on permissible usages of entries by a given author and service. As examples an aggregator may consult the arbitrator on whether the content of a content hosting service can be reused in aggregate or whether an individual entry can be reused in a way that it can be traced to an author or .

An aggregator is a derivative service that exposes the data from a content hosting service in different ways enabling different visualizations or different operations against some representation of the original data.

A content hosting service can be an online magazine or social bookmarking website providing a public data retrieval API Application Programming Interface of some sort such as Atom or RSS Really Simple Syndication .

An author is a person who authors original content such as tagging a bookmark in a social bookmarking tool authoring a blog entry on a blog service commenting to an article on an online magazine etc. The author explicitly authorizes the usage of his content through the lifecycle of the content. In some countries the author retains exclusive copyright style rights over the content in other cases content hosting services may require that the user authorizes public availability of the work as a condition of publication.

A content consumer is a person who reads views listens to or otherwise experiences the content provided by either a content hosting service or by an aggregator .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the foregoing Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

