---

title: Customization of an e-commerce display for a social network platform
abstract: A first computer identifies electronic commerce activity related to a first user. The first computer retrieves a first data, wherein the first data is coupled to the electronic commerce activity. The first computer analyzes the first data and generates a second data. The first computer generates an electronic commerce display for a social network platform using the second data, wherein the electronic commerce display includes at least one timeline of the electronic commerce activity of the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251537&OS=09251537&RS=09251537
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09251537
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130104
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of e commerce and more particularly to the customization of a faceted display that includes e commerce activity for a social network platform.

With the wide spread use of the Internet electronic commerce e commerce has become embedded in cultures throughout the world. Buying consumer products and services in a marketplace full of choices can often be a tedious task and the shopping process for on line users can be even more difficult.

The experience that Internet search engines and ecommerce platforms provide can be very different from the experience a consumer would have in a physical store where the salesman is available for questioning and recommendations. At the same time social networks such as Facebook and MySpace and business orientated networking platforms such as LinkedIn continue to grow in popularity. Blogging platforms such as Twitter provide additional ways for users to keep in touch with friends and family and to make new social contacts worldwide.

Both vendors and advertising companies have begun to leverage social media sites in an effort to increase the sales and revenue related to e commerce activities. As such it has become more important for social networking sites to provide interfaces that facilitate e commerce activity.

Embodiments of the present invention disclose a method computer program product and system for customizing an electronic commerce display included in a social network platform. A first computer identifies electronic commerce activity related to a first user. The first computer retrieves a first data wherein the first data is coupled to the electronic commerce activity. The first computer generates a second data wherein the second data is generated by analyzing the first data. The first computer generates an electronic commerce display for a social network platform using the second data wherein the electronic commerce display includes at least one timeline of the electronic commerce activity of the first user.

Electronic commerce platforms such as eBay Overstock.com and Amazon.com allow retailers easy access to consumers and provide many products that may be selected for purchase by a user at a computer terminal. These websites also allow a user to review a product by typing a statement concerning the product and rating the product using stars. However such shopping websites do not incentivize recommendations provide an easy way to recommend a product to a friend or track those recommendations. Also an anonymous recommendation can lack the same credibility that a recommendation from a friend may have. A trustworthy feedback or review for a particular item could be difficult to find as such information may be spread out over a number of individual sites with little if any control over who can input material for reviews.

In contrast to shopping websites social networking websites such as Facebook and Twitter provide users the opportunity to select friends and communicate with friends and others. Although in principle while a user may make a shopping recommendation to a friend on a social network site creating a link to the product to include with the recommendation is time consuming and difficult as such social networks sites do not lend themselves to the support of on line shopping functions. Exemplary embodiments of the present invention provide for a faceted display showing the electronic commerce activity of a given user via a timeline s . Selected friends family and other individuals can view the information included in the electronic commerce timeline according to privacy settings chosen by the user.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code instructions embodied thereon.

Any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. Computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium is hardware for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of a computer readable storage medium would include the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or th e like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on a user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the Figures. is a block diagram illustrating an electronic commerce e commerce environment generally designated in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.

E commerce environment includes computing device computing device and server computer all connected over network . Server computer includes e commerce display program which further includes integration platform profiles and analytics .

In alternative embodiments e commerce display program integration platform profiles and analytics may be stored externally to server computer and accessed through network . Network can be for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or a combination of the two and may include wired wireless fiber optic or any other connection known in the art. In general network can be any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between computing device computing device and server computer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

In various embodiments of the present invention computing device computing device and server computer can be servers laptop computers tablet computers netbook computers personal computers PCs desktop computers personal digital assistants PDAs smart phones or any programmable electronic device capable of communication via network . In other exemplary embodiments computing device computing device and server computer represent computing systems utilizing clustered computers and components to act as a single pool of seamless resources. In general computing device and computing device are computing devices that allow users to access the functions and attributes of server computer . In general server computer can be any computing device or a combination of devices with access to e commerce display program integration platform profiles and analytics and is capable of executing e commerce display program . Computing device computing device and server computer may include internal and external hardware components as depicted and described in further detail with respect to .

In an exemplary embodiment as users browse buy indicate approval of e.g. a like on Facebook or write reviews and recommendations for various items e commerce display program collects data from e commerce platforms such as Travelocity and Amazon.com . E commerce data includes but is not limited to pre and post purchase data such as likes Tweets and reviews as well as browsing history for various users. In general the data is collected by a social commerce integration bus an integration platform herein referred to as integration platform and analytic algorithms are applied to the data. The data is then presented to a user using a faceted display as an integrated element of a social network site.

The faceted display is included within a social network site such as Facebook and is in general dedicated to displaying the current and historical e commerce activities of a given user. The faceted display includes timeline s associated to a given user. In general there are two types of timelines which can be displayed namely a social activities time line and an e commerce activities timeline for social network members. The timelines are populated with activities of the user and social network members included in the timeline as chosen by the user. Typically the social network members would include close friends relatives or individuals that the user trusts. In some embodiments select e commerce activity of specific individuals such as friends and family members can be included in the e commerce activity timeline s of a given user. In general a friend relative or individual whom the user trusts is herein referred to as a recipient. Typically a recipient is someone who can view some or all of the information included in the timeline s of the user and can share their own timeline data with the user.

In an exemplary embodiment integration platform identifies and collects the various data elements that are to be stored in profiles . Typically these data elements are specifically associated to a known i.e. registered user of e commerce display program for further details see the discussion of analytics below . Integration platform identifies when a user is actively participating in e commerce related activities such as browsing or chatting with recipients about a specific product. In general integration platform identifies e commerce related activities through the log on of registered users or through the identification of specific product information such as the inclusion of a link to a product in a chat session.

In an exemplary embodiment user information is stored as profiles . In general the user information includes user identifying information user browsing information user product recommendations user purchase information and links to information concerning recommended products. Typically at least some of the user information is displayed on the faceted display of a social network site along with links to product information. In general if a product recommendation is created by the user then the product recommendation is associated with the timeline of the user which can then be viewed by recipients e.g. relatives designated by the user. Often the recipients are chosen from a list of friends of the user family members or those individuals that the user trusts but can also include individuals with access to the social network site.

In various embodiments profiles information pertaining to a user includes information and data such as noting that the user visited a particular web site downloaded music watched a video or engaged in gaming activities is used to enrich the time lines associated with that user. An example of one such embodiment would be to collect data on music movie and other entertainment preferences as computing device plays or downloads various entertainments. Embodiments of the invention also allow for consumer clients to list items they want to buy which are then listed on the timeline s of the user.

In an exemplary embodiment analytics includes analytical algorithm s that e commerce display program uses to analyze the data identified and collected by integration platform . The algorithm s stored as analytics can include algorithms for e commerce analytics that analyze online browsing purchase recommendation information etc. web analytics that analyze page views page downloads etc. text analytics that analyze and decipher recommendations bad experiences etc. entity analytics that authenticate end user and end user specific data affinity analytics that identify who to display specific information to and sentiment analytics that identify and decipher emotional content included in recommendations and experiences.

The aforementioned analytic algorithms can be applied to a given user s e commerce activity data e.g. items that have been added or removed from an online virtual shopping cart purchasing recommending etc. to create a faceted time line based display within the end users social network platform. In general analytic algorithms can be applied to validate the data authenticate users relate online e commerce data to a given user classify e commerce data by product and service categories classify e commerce data by end user behavior such as actual purchase purchase intent or creation of a product recommendation classify ecommerce data by target of purchased items i.e. self use or used for gift giving decipher positive and negative comments about products and services and determine who should get which piece of information regarding a given user s e commerce data.

The identified collected and analyzed data can then be tailored and displayed by e commerce display program . In general a user is given the option to either share or not share purchase information with one or more members of their social network via the faceted display. Friends and relatives as selected by the user can choose to view a particular facet of the timeline s of the user with regard to their own online shopping behavior. For example a user buys a new album of their favorite band. A recipient sees the purchase on the timeline of the user and also purchases the new album.

In some embodiments if e commerce display program receives e commerce data i.e. the identified collected and analyzed data such as a product recommendation then e commerce display program notifies the recommending user by updating their timeline s with the relevant data. The relevant data can include information such as when the recommendation was created and when a selected recipient has viewed the recommendation. In certain embodiments e commerce display program can update the timeline s of a user when a recommended product is purchased by a selected recipient that viewed the recommendation. In addition in some embodiments a user may also select specific recipients to receive an additional notification when the recipient views the recommendation. For example the timeline s of a first user includes a web page for a product recommended by the user e.g. a hairdryer and uniform resource locators URLs that link to product information. The first user also includes an additional message for a second user indicating that the product is being purchased as a gift for a third user. The second user receives the message after checking the recommendation left by the first user and knows that they should not buy a hairdryer for the third user.

In an exemplary embodiment there can be a single recipient or a group of recipients. For example the user may have previously designated certain recipients who communicate via casual social networks as depicted in as friends . In this exemplary embodiment the friends of the user are typically persons known by the user or are trusted friends of the user s friends . In general a friend or other type of recipient can communicate with the user using computing device via network . The list of recipients associated with a given user are included in profiles . Thus server computer can function as a host server of the social network shopping community.

In an exemplary embodiment a user can make a recommendation of a product and the information regarding the recommendation is then included in the respective timeline s of the user. For example a user posts a link to information concerning a product on a virtual wall e commerce display program identifies the post as being created by the user and includes that information in the timeline s of the user. In another example a product recommendation is sent by email to two recipients simultaneously. E commerce display program identifies the product recommendation in the email as being created by the user as well as the email recipients and includes that information in the timeline s of the user. In yet another example a user is participating in a chat session regarding a specific product via an instant messaging service hosted by server computer . The user sends a link to product information to the one or more chatting recipients via the instant messaging service. E commerce display program identifies the link in the chat session as being created by the user as well as the chatting recipients and includes that information in the timeline s of the user.

In an alternative embodiment a user can invite and take a group of recipients on a virtual shopping tour. When a recipient receives the invitation the recipient may select a link that opens a window on the recipient s computer monitor that displays one or more virtual store fronts and one or more product categories of products sold by each store. The user may control the tour by selecting a particular store front in response to which the user and recipients are virtually taken inside the store. For example a window may open on the display of computing device for the user as well as the recipients display i.e. the display of computing device to display products sold by the store. The user may then recommend a displayed product and may also solicit and receive comments concerning the product or store from one or more recipients on the shopping tour. The date time participants and products viewed including the respective comments and recommendations for each product viewed are all included in the respective timelines of the user and the group of recipients that participated in the virtual shopping tour. Subsequent to the tour if e commerce display program determines that the user or someone the group of recipients that participated in the virtual shopping tour has purchased a viewed product then e commerce display program updates the respective timelines of the user and the group of recipients that participated in the virtual shopping tour with that information.

In some embodiments a user can solicit a recommendation of a product from a select group of recipients. In general a user selects a product category for which he or she seeks a recommendation. For example a list of product categories from which to choose is displayed e.g. furniture polishes. The user selects the respective category to seek a recommendation of a product in the selected category. Upon receipt of the category selection of the user e commerce display program searches profiles for recommendations of products in that product category. If e commerce display program identifies a relevant recommendation e.g. one that matches the product category then that recommendation is passed to for example computing device . E commerce display program then updates the timeline s of the user to include data reflecting the search for the recommendation as well as the identity of the recipient who made the recommendation. In other embodiments if a user retrieves a recommendation then the timeline s of the recipient who made that recommendation are updated to show that the user has accessed their recommendation. Similarly in another embodiment a user seeking feedback can submit the image of an item they are seeking more information about. E commerce display program can then solicit fresh feedback from recipient with appropriate profiles stored in profiles and deliver the returned responses or reviews to the user. Again as discussed in the previous examples and embodiments the activity of a user seeking feedback and those who provided feedback would be recorded and their respective timeline s would be updated accordingly.

In some embodiments e commerce display program can solicit feedback from users using simple queries and using that feedback can generate a more detailed product review. At certain time intervals new queries can be sent to reviewers to allow for updates thereby creating consumer reviews which are dynamically updated over the lifecycle of the product. For example a consumer buys an computer tablet and provides a product review that provides feedback using e commerce display program . Three months later e commerce display program queries the user to update their previously supplied feedback and then repeatedly queries the user every six months until the user indicates the product is no longer used. In certain embodiments these queries can be consolidated to generate simple surveys that cover multiple product reviews which are then displayed to users who supplied or solicited feedback.

In an exemplary embodiment is schematic illustrating inputs to profiles according to an exemplary embodiment. Profiles is dynamic in that it is continuously updated over time by both passive and active participation via user activities. In general all events and or information included in profiles have a relevance date tag. The relevance date tag is used to place a given event and or information of a respective user on the timeline of the user.

In exemplary embodiments active user input begins when the user installs and activates the e commerce display program . In an exemplary embodiment basic information is obtained such as client demographics user likes and dislikes professional interests leisure activities and hobbies products they have and use and products they desire. In an alternative embodiment a given user is regularly queried for additional bits of up to date information. This input can be obtained by regularly sending short polls via email. An example of such a query would be a short questionnaire including questions such as what type of mobile phone or PDA a client uses and or likes and if they plan to upgrade. If they do plan to upgrade further questions could be posed such as what brand and model would they prefer do they have a mobile broadband plan are they happy with their carrier do they get dropped calls and the like.

In order to ascertain that certain data is current in some embodiments e commerce display program periodically questions the user with short surveys to prompt the corresponding client to verify if information is current or to change outdated information. In various embodiments the user can select security settings options to include location data and register mobile devices and even options to receive direct solicitations form retailer clients etc. In some embodiments the user can access e commerce display program to actively update information and settings stored in profiles at any time.

Certain embodiments also provide for passive updating of the information and settings stored in profiles . In an exemplary embodiment as the user progresses with networking activities e commerce display program identifies casual social networks professional networks and blogging networks frequented by the user and inputs the aforementioned information into the corresponding profiles . Examples of such networks are Facebook MySpace Linkedin Twitter Google etc. E commerce display also identifies search engine queries conducted by and Internet sites visited by a given user and updates profiles dynamically as to the corresponding interests and networks indicated thereby. In an alternative embodiment e commerce display program identifies other enrolled users within casual social networks blogging networks and professional networks . In yet another alternative embodiment e commerce display program solicits non enrolled friends or followers in a user s social network for reviews and or recommendations for a given item or service. In a further alternative embodiment e commerce display program can include applications that interface directly with social networking sites and . Similarly user contacts such as voice e mail or instant messaging contacts voice and e contacts could be solicited for enrollment. In certain embodiments electronic devices such as cell phones can send a signal that indicates the location of the user i.e. location information to e commerce display program . Location information can be useful for locating an item of interest later. For example if a user notes a particular item that they like in a large store or mall.

The use of location information can be combined with image queries . Image queries are search records related to images of interest to the user. For example a user in a mall takes a picture of an item they wish to purchase later using their cell phone. The user uploads the picture to e commerce display program and includes the image in their timeline along with a request for a product review. E commerce display program notes the request for a product review as product reviews and sends out a request for reviews of the product. In general product reviews includes product reviews requested and written by a given user.

In an exemplary embodiment online transactions of a user triggers the collection of new real time data delivery to update the corresponding profiles . Information on purchases such as specific items purchased price paid retailer information reviews opinions posted by the user etc are automatically collected. The aforementioned information is included as part of profiles . In an alternative embodiment such new information triggers requests for a detailed product review or query of a particular product or asking for new consumer input at a later time or times which further enriches profiles . Participation of a given user in selling or auction platforms such as for example Ebay or Amazon is noted by various embodiments and the respective products listed or purchased as well as the transactions made on such platforms by a given user can trigger automatic updates to profiles . In short the various retailer s a user does business with are recorded as part of profiles making it possible for e commerce display program to identify and solicit feedback from the user and the recipients of the user. An exemplary embodiment provides the user the option to adjust the settings of e commerce display program and or opt out of certain data mining functions at any time.

Various event data may in some embodiments trigger a consumer profile update. For example a consumer s response to certain ads may trigger an update to profiles in various embodiments. In an example when a user clicks on an ad activating a link included in the add i.e. ad clicks potential interest in that product or service is noted in profiles data associated with the user. In some embodiments e commerce display detects if a video ad was played through or if an ad was activated for example by clicking on the add. E commerce display updates profiles according to the detected activity. The activation clicking of an ad is herein considered an event which results in new data being collected and stored in profiles . For example a computing device such as a laptop or an iPad may be used regularly at certain times by a user for specific program activities. In this example both the time of day the computing device is used and the program category such as a media player or genre e.g. a type of music played are noted and respective profiles data associated with that user is updated. For example a registered user using computing device routinely watches a certain football highlights program at 8 PM Monday through Friday. Profiles is updated with data that tags both the interest in football highlights and the time of day the user is routinely using computing device .

In certain exemplary embodiments users are allowed to control the degree of privacy maintained by e commerce display program . Specifically users are permitted to specify that specific information about them is maintained as private. Users can also specify what recipients being organized by individuals organizations companies or groups that have access to more detailed information about the user. In general users are allowed to identify specific types of information for example phone numbers addresses preferences products owned or desired demographic segments recent activities and the like and to specify what level of privacy is to be maintained by e commerce display program for each specific type or even for each specific piece of information as illustrated for example by providing different privacy settings for a mobile phone used socially and a business phone used only professionally .

It is to be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art that there are many ways in which a system according to the invention could carry out the aforementioned privacy function. For example an application programming interface API according to the invention could be used to allow for a third party online service to provide e commerce display program a plurality of sets of electing user id information type id information instance id other user or group id and a privacy setting describing the privacy to be maintained when disclosing information about the electing user to the other user or group concerning a particular information instance or information type. This exemplary embodiment further includes an optional provision of a default setting such that users who wish to bypass setting security rules are still protected in a default fashion. Additionally preconfigured security bundles may be provided according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention to facilitate rapidly setting up typical security profiles by the user.

In another embodiment e commerce display program may directly offer a configuration page to users that allows them among other things to specify their privacy settings in any desired level of detail. E commerce display program is thus enabled to act as a trusted middleman or information intermediary and thus to make it possible for users to enjoy greater value from online services without having to sacrifice their privacy. In other words the capacity of e commerce display program to store information about millions of users product holdings product experiences future product purchase plans and online shopping behavior to name a small set of the possible types of information handled by e commerce display program and stored as profiles data as discussed above. E commerce display program uses the previously mentioned information to update the timeline s for individuals and groups from among the millions of users. E commerce display program further uses the profiles and timeline s to provide valuable information to the same and other users while protecting the personal information of each of the individual users according to rules established by each respective user.

In reference to a flow chart illustrating the operational steps an e commerce display program follows to gather e commerce data and update the timeline s associated with a given user in accordance to an exemplary embodiment.

In an exemplary embodiment e commerce display program identifies the log in of a registered user or the creation of an account i.e. the creation of a registered user in step . The log in is detected through the matching of user identifying information entered using computing device to user data stored in profiles . The respective profile information of the identified user is then loaded.

In step e commerce display program uses integration platform to actively monitor the e commerce activity of the logged in user using computing device as well as specified other user s i.e. logged in user s using computing device . For example the logged in user using computing device has specified in their profile settings that they want their timeline s updated using the e commerce activity of specified recipients as well as their own e commerce activity. So when the user logs in e commerce display program identifies any specified recipients who are also logged in and using integration platform begins monitoring the e commerce activity of the user and the specific recipients.

If e commerce activity is identified by e commerce display program decision step yes branch then that information i.e. the identified data is saved to profiles in step . If no e commerce activity is identified decision step no branch then e commerce display program determines if the user or their friends has submitted a request for e commerce information decision step .

If no request has been received for e commerce information decision step no branch then e commerce display program returns to active monitoring of e commerce activity step . However if a request has been received for e commerce information decision step yes branch then e commerce display program executes a search for the requested information in step . For example the user of computing device desires a review of a sweater they wish to purchase for their mother s birthday. The user submits the request for a review of the sweater. E commerce display program analyzes the data stored in profiles using the analytic algorithms stored in analytics and identifies a recipient of the user who has written several reviews of sweaters in the past. Therefore e commerce display program determines that the recipient of the user is a good match for providing a recommendation. E commerce display program sends a prompt to the recipient who is using computing device requesting a recommendation regarding the sweater. In another example e commerce display program searches the timelines of the user s recipients and identifies a number of reviews and recommendations regarding sweaters. In yet another example e commerce display program searches the internet for reviews and recommendations regarding sweaters.

If the requested information is not identified decision step no branch then e commerce display program sends a message indicating that the requested information was not found step and returns to active monitoring of e commerce activity step . If the requested information is identified decision step yes branch then that information i.e. the identified data is saved to profiles in step .

In step of this exemplary embodiment e commerce display program applies the analytic algorithms stored in analytics to the data that has been saved in step . This is generally a filtering and quality control process to help ensure that only the most relevant data is returned to a given user. For example in continuation of the sweater examples discussed above the analytics identify two online reviews one for a red wool sweater and another for a purple cotton sweater and a recommendation from a recipient of the user. The profile data for the user s mother who is also a registered user indicates that she hates the color red and is allergic to cotton. As a result the analytic algorithms reject the review for red wool sweater and the purple cotton sweater but accepts a recommendation from the user s recipient for a purple cashmere sweater.

The data relevant to the user is applied by e commerce display program to the timeline s of the user. E commerce display program also associates the appropriate privacy settings to the applied data as dictated by the users profile in step . In other words e commerce display program associates authorization information to the data so that the authorization to view the data is controlled by the privacy settings of the user. For example in continuation of the sweater example above the recipients and family of the user can view the request and received recommendation for the purple cashmere sweater but the user s mother would be excluded from such information. If the user chooses to purchase the purple cashmere sweater then information regarding the purchase would also be available to the recipients and family who would then know not to purchase the same gift for the mother.

Computing device computing device and server computer include respective sets of communications fabric which provides communications between computer processor s memory persistent storage communications unit and input output I O interface s . Communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example communications fabric can be implemented with one or more buses.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In this embodiment memory includes random access memory RAM and cache memory . In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media.

E commerce display program integration platform profiles and analytics are stored in persistent storage for execution and or access by one or more of the respective computer processors via one or more memories of memory . In this embodiment persistent storage includes a magnetic hard disk drive. Alternatively or in addition to a magnetic hard disk drive persistent storage can include a solid state hard drive a semiconductor storage device read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage may also be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices including resources of computing device computing device and server computer . In these examples communications unit includes one or more network interface cards. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links. E commerce display program integration platform profiles and analytics may be downloaded to persistent storage through communications unit .

I O interface s allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to server computer . For example I O interface may provide a connection to external devices such as a keyboard keypad a touch screen and or some other suitable input device. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. e commerce display program integration platform profiles and analytics can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage via I O interface s . I O interface s also connect to a display .

Display provides a mechanism to display data to a user and may be for example a computer monitor or a television screen.

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which includes one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

