---

title: Vehicle location and activity sharing
abstract: Vehicle location sharing systems and methods are described. In an embodiment, a system for sharing a location of a vehicle may include a location-determining device and a network-connected device. The location-determining device may be configured to track a location of a vehicle and to determine a location of the vehicle in response to a voice command from an occupant of the vehicle. The network-connected device may be configured to transmit a location description in response to the voice command. The location description may be configured to identify the determined location of the vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09230438&OS=09230438&RS=09230438
owner: CLOUDCAR, INC.
number: 09230438
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130107
---
The embodiments discussed herein relate to systems and methods of sharing a location or activity of a vehicle.

Mobile electronic devices mobile devices allow users to share information with others among other things. Generally mobile device users can share text based messages with other mobile device users via short message service SMS messages. In many instances mobile devices allow users to share other forms of media directly with other mobile devices through multimedia messaging service MMS messages. As many mobile devices are configured to access the internet users may share text hyperlinks pictures videos audio and the like on a number of internet based mobile device applications blogs microblogs social networking services photo sharing sites video sharing sites social news sites and the like.

Vehicle operators often desire to use their mobile device while operating a vehicle. However the use of electronic devices while operating a vehicle can lead to operator distractions and potentially dangerous operating conditions. This sort of distracted driving has caused accidents and many states now have laws forbidding or restricting interaction with mobile devices while driving.

Furthermore the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration NHSTA has provided guidelines to automakers to ensure that new cars discourage distracted driving. The focus of the NHSTA guidelines is to encourage drivers to keep their eyes on the road rather than being distracted with the interface of a mobile device or vehicular device. To that end some sharing functionality of electronic devices may potentially be disabled now and possibly in a more widespread manner in the future. The NHSTA guidelines are often in direct conflict with drivers desired behavior.

The subject matter claimed herein is not limited to embodiments that solve any disadvantages or that operate only in environments such as those described above. Rather this background is only provided to illustrate one example technology area where some embodiments described herein may be practiced.

Some embodiments described herein generally relate to systems and methods of sharing a location or activity of a vehicle. The systems and methods may allow an occupant of a vehicle to share the vehicle s location by way of simple inputs such as voice commands or button presses. The vehicle s location can thus be easily and safely shared even by the vehicle s operator. The vehicle s location may be shared through many forms of communication accessible via the internet and or radio access networks. For example a vehicle s location may be shared through SMS messages MMS messages email and internet based applications and or websites such as Twitter Facebook and the like. The systems and methods may further allow the vehicle s occupants to add supplemental information to the shared location such as current time direction of travel expected arrival time at destination comments traffic information etc. A visual or audible indication may be generated so that the vehicle s occupants can safely confirm that the location has been shared.

This Summary introduces a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential characteristics of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In an example embodiment a system for sharing a location of a vehicle is described. The system includes one or more electronic devices. The one or more electronic devices are configured to determine a location of the vehicle in response to an input from an occupant of the vehicle. The one or more electronic devices are also configured to transmit a location description in response to the input. The location description is configured to identify the determined location of the vehicle.

In another example embodiment a method of sharing a location of a vehicle is described. The method includes determining a location of the vehicle in response to an input from an occupant of the vehicle. The method also includes transmitting a location description in response to the input. The location description is configured to identify the determined location of the vehicle.

In yet another example embodiment a computer readable medium is described. The computer readable medium has computer instructions stored thereon that are executable by a processor to perform operations. The operations include determining a location of the vehicle in response to an input from an occupant of the vehicle. The operations also include transmitting a location description in response to the input the location description configured to identify the determined location of the vehicle.

Additional features and advantages will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the embodiments. The features and advantages of the embodiments will be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims. These and other features will become more fully apparent from the following description and claims or may be learned by the practice of the embodiments as set forth hereinafter.

Operators and or occupants of a vehicle may wish to share information about their vehicle s location or activity via various technologies. Some vehicle operators may do so notwithstanding the dangers of operating a mobile device while simultaneously operating a vehicle. Other vehicle operators and or occupants may be unable or unwilling to do so. The vehicle operators and or occupants may be unable or unwilling to share their vehicle s location to avoid distracting the operator because they are operating the vehicle because a safety feature has disabled a function needed for sharing and or because it is illegal under the circumstances.

Often even if it is safe and legal to share a vehicle s location it may be inconvenient to do so. For example using some conventional systems a user may be required to undertake a number of steps to share the vehicle s location via a desired technology. With some systems for instance the user may be required to navigate one or more applications copy and paste location information from one application to another and or add a description of the location.

Those vehicle operators and or occupants who wish to share their vehicle s location in the absence of the methods and systems described herein must weigh the risks and the inconvenience against the benefits of sharing. For example a carpool driver may want to send the other members of the carpool an SMS message including the driver s location so the other members of the carpool know how much time will pass before the carpool arrives. Another person may be driving home for the holidays and may wish to post his location to a social networking site for hometown friends and family to see. Someone driving across the country may want to regularly broadcast current location via a microblogging site to chronicle the trip. In these and many other situations in the absence of the methods and systems described herein the vehicle operators may be forced to choose between not sharing the vehicle s location and sharing the location despite the accompanying inconvenience safety risks and or illegality.

The methods and systems described herein enable developers to use information concerning a vehicle s location in games social media mobile device applications websites and the like which has previously not been done because of inherent safety and or liability concerns. As a result there are any number of games social media mobile device applications websites or the like that can be created or adapted to use a vehicle s shared location while the vehicle is in operation and potentially moving and which are enabled by the methods and systems described herein.

In view of the foregoing embodiments described herein allow a vehicle s location to be shared safely conveniently and legally.

Reference will now be made to the figures wherein like structures will be provided with like reference designations. The drawings are diagrammatic and schematic representations of example embodiments and accordingly are not limiting of the scope of the claimed subject matter nor are the drawings necessarily drawn to scale.

The vehicle and the mobile device may allow an occupant of a vehicle to easily and safely share the vehicle s location by way of simple inputs such as voice commands or a simple series of button presses that can be safely made while a vehicle is in motion. As used herein the term occupant broadly applies to both operators and passengers. The vehicle s location optionally including supplemental information may be shared through any appropriate network accessible by the mobile device or the vehicle . For example the vehicle s location may be shared through SMS messages MMS messages email and internet based applications and or websites such as Twitter Facebook and the like. The vehicle and or the mobile device may also indicate that the vehicle s location has been shared so an occupant of the vehicle can safely confirm that the vehicle s location has been shared.

The vehicle may generally include one or more devices to assist with operation of the vehicle to improve the vehicle s safety to entertain occupants not shown of the vehicle to improve the comfort of occupants or the like. For example the devices can include an audio system for audibly providing occupants with entertainment and other information. The devices can also include one or more displays for visually providing occupants with information and potentially with entertainment. The displays may include instrument panels head unit displays and other display devices that may be found in both new and used vehicles.

A voice recognition system may also be included as one of the devices included with the vehicle . The voice recognition system may include a microphone for detecting a spoken command from an occupant. An input device such as a switch button touch surface or the like may be included in the voice recognition system and or the devices to receive input effective to instruct the voice recognition system to listen for a spoken command.

The devices may include a navigation system for determining a location of the vehicle for providing occupants with directions to a destination or the like. The navigation system generally relies on satellite navigation systems such as the global positioning system GPS or the global navigation satellite system GLONASS . However other satellite navigation systems can be used as can terrestrial navigation systems such as the long range navigation LORAN system Wi Fi based positioning system WPS and the like. The navigation system may provide information to occupants via one or more displays and or an audio system. In many cases built in navigation systems may include software and or hardware that is already outdated by the time the vehicle is sold to the consumer who will use the vehicle .

The vehicle may communicate with a mobile device . The mobile device may be virtually any communication enabled mobile device including but not limited to a portable media device a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer or other communication enabled mobile device. The mobile device may include a communication interface such as an IEEE 802.11 interface a Bluetooth interface a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS interface a Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A interface or other mobile cellular interface. The mobile device may wirelessly communicate data voice communication SMS messages or the like over the network . In some embodiments the devices may communicate over the network via the mobile device .

Many consumers replace their mobile device much more often than they replace their vehicle . The relatively short lifespan of such mobile devices often provides consumers with access to the latest or almost the latest and most up to date software and or hardware through their mobile device . Such mobile devices may generally operate a variety of apps access online content and can often interface with radio access networks.

In some embodiments a new or used vehicle may be configured to wirelessly communicate with the mobile device . Alternately or additionally the vehicle and the mobile device may communicate over a wired connection. In some embodiments communication between the vehicle and the mobile device may substantially occur as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 664 212 entitled AUTOMOBILE DATA ABSTRACTION AND COMMUNICATION and filed Oct. 30 2012 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The mobile device may communicate with the devices and the vehicle generally and may project content onto one or more displays of the vehicle . In some embodiments projection of content may substantially occur as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 664 204 entitled PROJECTION OF CONTENT TO EXTERNAL DISPLAY DEVICES and filed Oct. 30 2012 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The head unit includes a display A configured to display content such as one or more of maps navigation instructions video content from an integrated DVD player radio or other music information weather or traffic information etc. For example the display A may be associated with an existing built in electronics system that has certain functionality which is often limited or outdated in the absence of the systems described herein. The head unit additionally includes an input interface which may include any input device configured to receive user input effective to operate the head unit and potentially other aspects of the vehicle in which the head unit is installed. For example the input interface of the head unit includes one or more buttons B C and or the display A itself when implemented as a touchscreen display. In some embodiments when the mobile device is projecting content to the head unit user input provided via the input interface of the head unit is used to control operation of the mobile device .

The instrument panel includes at least one display area A in which content may be displayed. Accordingly the mobile device may project content to the instrument panel for display in all or a portion of the display area A. Alternately or additionally the instrument panel may further include one or more fixed instruments B and C. For example the fixed instruments B and C may include a speedometer a fuel gauge a temperature gauge an RPM gauge or the like or any combination thereof. Although not shown in some embodiments the instrument panel may include an input interface such as has been described with respect to the head unit .

The system may further include a steering wheel of the vehicle. In some embodiments the steering wheel includes an input interface such as has been described above with respect to the head unit . The input interface of the steering wheel may include one or more buttons A and B. In some embodiments the buttons A and B are used for one or more of prompting the vehicle to listen for a voice command speaker volume control channel selection track selection or for other functionality.

In some embodiments the system further includes an intra vehicle bus to which the head unit the instrument panel and or the steering wheel are communicatively coupled. The intra vehicle bus may be configured to allow microcontrollers such as may be implemented in each of the head unit the instrument panel and the steering wheel to communicate with each other. The intra vehicle bus may include a controller area network CAN bus or any bus used in a vehicle for communicating signals between components including standards such as media oriented systems transport MOST local interconnect network LIN Inter Integrated Circuit IC Ethernet or the like.

An access node may be provided to allow access to the intra vehicle bus . For example an intra vehicle bus interface IVBI device may be communicatively coupled to the access node to read data from and or write data to the intra vehicle bus . In an example embodiment the access node may include an on board diagnostics OBD connector compliant with a particular OBD interface such as the OBD I OBD 1.5 or OBD II interfaces. The IVBI device may be configured to communicate with the mobile device wirelessly or via a hardwired connection.

In some embodiments user input entered via the buttons A and B of the steering wheel and or entered via other input interfaces of the vehicle may be used to control operation of the mobile device . For example data representing the user input may be communicated on the intra vehicle bus read by the IVBI device and communicated by the IVBI device to the mobile device either wirelessly or via a hardwired connection.

The system may continuously track a location of the vehicle. In some embodiments the location of the vehicle is tracked by the mobile device . The mobile device may also display a map on the display A. The mobile device may also display a marker showing the location of the vehicle on the map and or navigation instructions . Alternately or additionally a navigation device of the vehicle may track the vehicle s location display the map marker and or navigation instructions on the display A. The system may optionally track the location of the vehicle intermittently rather than continuously. For example the system may be configured to track the vehicle s location only when necessary to perform some task.

The system may include one or more microphones and . The system may use the microphones and to process voice commands of an occupant of the vehicle. In some instances the system listens for a voice command only after an appropriate button is pressed. The system may alternately listen for a voice command continuously.

The system shares the vehicle s location upon receiving an appropriate input from an occupant of the vehicle. The input may include a voice command a press of a button B C A and B also referred to herein as a button press a touchscreen input a combination of inputs or the like. Upon receiving the input the system may determine a location of the vehicle. The mobile device can determine the location as can a navigation device of the vehicle. In some embodiments the mobile device may determine the location using the vehicle s navigation device via the intra vehicle bus . Alternately or additionally the vehicle may determine the location using the mobile device s navigation device via the intra vehicle bus . The location may be a discrete location determined for the purpose of sharing. It will be appreciated that the system may also track a series of discrete locations and generate a location description from the series of discrete locations. For example the location description may include a description of a particular path of travel.

In response to the occupant s input the system may generate a location description from the determined location. The location description may include information that identifies the location. For example the location description may include a textual description of the location such as a street address latitude and longitude town neighborhood city state or the like. Alternately or additionally the location description may include a graphical description of the location such as a photo taken from the location a map or a satellite image. Alternately or additionally the location description may include textual or graphical descriptions of nearby businesses landmarks or the like. For example if the location is identified as being somewhere along the length of the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco Calif. the location description may simply describe the location as the Golden Gate Bridge or may include a photo of the Golden Gate Bridge. In some embodiments the location description may include a link to an internet location including any of the described information. For example the location description may include a link that directs a user to an online map including the location to an information page about the location or the like.

In addition to a description of the location the location description can optionally include supplemental information. The location description generally includes supplemental information identifying characteristics of the vehicle. For example the supplemental information may include the vehicle s make model year and the like. The supplemental information may also include a nickname assigned to the vehicle. For example the location description may be a textual message stating The Stevemobile is at 1820 Highland Drive. The supplemental information may also include a picture not related to the vehicle s location such as a picture of the vehicle a picture of the vehicle s owner a business logo or the like.

The supplemental information can include a time the vehicle was at the described location a heading of the vehicle or other details. If the system is aware of the vehicle s destination the supplemental information may include the destination and the expected time of arrival. The supplemental information may also include a message such as a textual message or an audio message. In some embodiments the message may be recorded from and or transcribed from a voice input from an occupant of the vehicle. The supplemental information may also include video links to internet locations tags of the vehicle s passengers and the like.

The system may further transmit the location description in response to the occupant s input. The location description may be transmitted by the mobile device over a network generally corresponding to the network described with reference to . It will be appreciated that the location description may be transmitted by a vehicle device and or by an IVBI device with network access capabilities.

The system may transmit the location description to a receiving system not shown . For example the system may transmit the location description to another mobile device via SMS message MMS message or the like. The location description may be transmitted to an email address and or to a site accessible via the internet. The location description may be transmitted to sites accessible via internet browsers or by applications located on computers and or mobile devices. For example the location description may be transmitted to a blog or other website such as a blog controlled by the operator or other occupant of the vehicle.

Alternately or additionally the location description may be transmitted to social media. Particular examples of social media may include but are not limited to Twitter Facebook Tumblr Youtube Reddit Pinterest Instagram and the like. It will be appreciated that the embodiments described herein are not limited to the social media specifically mentioned in this application or only to currently existing social media. The system may employ an appropriate application programming interface API to transmit the location description. In some embodiments the system is provided the necessary permissions to transmit to the receiving systems ahead of time. For example the system may be provided with usernames passwords and other login information ahead of transmitting to the receiving systems. Some receiving systems particularly social media may require the system be authorized to transmit information to the receiving systems.

The occupant s input may direct the system to transmit the location description to one or more particular receiving systems. For example a user s voice input may include the phrase Tweet my location which may prompt the system to determine the vehicle s location and transmit the location description as a Twitter message commonly described as a Tweet. By way of further example a user s voice input may include the phrase Facebook my location with the message California or bust which may direct the system to transmit a location description including the vehicle s location accompanied by the supplemental message California or bust. The user s input may also include a generic phrase such as share my location which may cause the system to transmit a location description to a default receiving system and or to prompt the user to identify the desired one or more receiving systems. Although described as voice commands physical inputs may also be used. For example a first button press may direct the system to share the vehicle s location and a second button press may indicate to which one or more receiving systems the system should transmit the location description.

The system may indicate that the location description has been transmitted in response to the occupant s input. The system may display a visual indication that the location description has been transmitted to the desired receiving services. The visual indication may be receiving service specific such as an image logo or icon representing the receiving service. The visual indication may appear on the display A for a period of time and disappear. Alternately or additionally the system may indicate that the location description has been transmitted through computer generated or pre recorded verbal feedback by causing one or more of the displays A and A and or a portion thereof to flash by playing an audible indication or the like.

The mobile device includes a processing device and a computer readable storage medium hereinafter storage medium . The processing device is configured to execute computer instructions stored on the storage medium to perform one or more of the operations described herein such as operations associated with sharing a location of a vehicle.

The storage medium may include but is not limited to a magnetic disk a flexible disk a hard disk an optical disk such as a compact disk CD or DVD and a solid state drive SSD to name a few. Another example of a computer readable storage medium that may be included in the mobile device may include a system memory not shown . Various non limiting examples of system memory include volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM flash memory or the like or any combination thereof.

One or more applications M collectively applications may be executed by the mobile device and more particularly by the processing device . For example the applications may be stored in the storage medium and executed by the processing device to become corresponding instantiated applications that generate or render information or content locally or communicate information or content with an external information or content source.

The mobile device may be controlled via a UI of the mobile device . Additionally the mobile device may be configured to output content to a built in display .

The mobile device includes one or more antennas configured for wireless communication. The antennas may be configured to communicate with the vehicular device . For example the antennas may permit communication through a communication channel . In some embodiments the communication channel includes the IVBI device the access node and the intra vehicle bus of . The antennas also allow the mobile device to communicate over a wireless network generally corresponding to the network of . The antennas may allow the mobile device to transmit location descriptions to receiving systems.

The mobile device includes a location determining device . The location determining device may include hardware and or software necessary to determine a location of the mobile device . For example the location determining device may include hardware and or software to determine a location from GPS GLONASS LORAN WPS and the like. The location determining device may include other devices related to determining a location of the mobile phone such as a compass gyroscope accelerometer and the like.

The vehicular device includes a processing device and a computer readable storage medium hereinafter storage medium . The processing device is configured to execute computer instructions stored on the storage medium to perform one or more of the operations described herein such as operations associated with sharing a location of a vehicle.

The vehicular device may further include a display generally corresponding to one or more of the displays A and A of . The vehicular device may be controlled via a UI of the vehicular device . Additionally the vehicular device may be configured to output content to a built in display . In some embodiments the UI of the vehicular device is used to control the mobile device and the mobile device outputs content to the display of the vehicular device .

Optionally the vehicular device may include a location determining device . The location determining device may include hardware and or software necessary to determine a location of the vehicular device . For example the location determining device may include hardware and or software to determine a location from GPS GLONASS LORAN WPS and the like. The location determining device may include other devices related to determining a location of the vehicular device such as a compass gyroscope accelerometer and the like.

The method may begin at block in which a location of a vehicle is determined in response to an input from an occupant of the vehicle. In some embodiments the input from an occupant of the vehicle may include a voice command.

In block a location description configured to identify the determined location of the vehicle is transmitted in response to the input. In some embodiments the location description may include a nickname make or model of the vehicle. The location description may be posted to a site accessible via the internet. For example the location description may be posted to social media. Alternately or additionally the location description may be sent as an email message or an SMS message.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes and methods disclosed herein the functions performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined steps and operations are only provided as examples and some of the steps and operations may be optional combined into fewer steps and operations or expanded into additional steps and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments.

For instance the method may further include indicating that the location description has been successfully transmitted. In some embodiments indicating that the location description has been successfully transmitted may include displaying a visual indication that the location description has been successfully transmitted.

An embodiment of the method of in the context of the system of will now be described. In an example embodiment the system operates as follows. An occupant of a vehicle makes an appropriate input through the vehicular device UI or the mobile device UI . In response to the input the mobile device processing device may execute instructions located on the storage medium that direct the mobile device location determining device or the vehicular device location determining device to determine a location of the vehicle.

The processing device may execute additional instructions located on the storage medium that direct the mobile device to generate a location description configured to identify the determined location of the vehicle and transmit the location description via one or more of the antennas . In some embodiments the processing device may further execute instructions that direct the vehicular device display to display a visual indication that the location description has been successfully transmitted.

The embodiments described herein may include the use of a special purpose or general purpose computer including various computer hardware or software modules as discussed in greater detail below.

Embodiments described herein may be implemented using computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media may include tangible computer readable storage media including random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other storage medium which may be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used herein the term module or component may refer to software objects or routines that execute on the computing system. The different components modules engines and services described herein may be implemented as objects or processes that execute on the computing system e.g. as separate threads . While the system and methods described herein are preferably implemented in software implementations in hardware or a combination of software and hardware are also possible and contemplated. In this description a computing entity may be any computing system as previously defined herein or any module or combination of modulates running on a computing system.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

