---

title: Methods, systems, and computer readable media for dual resonance frequency enhanced electrostatic force microscopy
abstract: The subject matter described herein includes methods, systems, and computer readable media for dual resonance frequency enhanced electrostatic force microscopy. One method includes applying an alternating current (AC) bias and a direct current (DC) bias to an atomic force microscopy cantilever, wherein the AC bias has a frequency greater than a fundamental resonance frequency of the cantilever. The method further includes mechanically vibrating the cantilever at a frequency different from the frequency of the AC bias. The method further includes physically and electrostatically scanning a sample in the same pass using the cantilever while vibrating the cantilever and applying the AC and DC biases to the cantilever, and generating a topology image of the sample from the physical scanning and an electrostatic image of charged material under or on a surface of the sample from the electrostatic scanning.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09395388&OS=09395388&RS=09395388
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 09395388
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 701 341 filed Sep. 14 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. R01 GM079480 DAE awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter described herein relates to mechanically scanning and electrostatically imaging biological samples. More particularly the subject matter described herein relates to methods systems and computer readable media for dual resonance frequency enhanced electrostatic force microscopy.

Single molecule high resolution imaging of protein nucleic acid complexes using techniques such as electron microscopy EM and atomic force microscopy AFM provides invaluable information about the structure function relationships of biological processes. A significant limitation to these techniques however is the inability to resolve the location of the nucleic acid within protein complexes. Electron spectroscopic imaging selecting for phosphorous coupled with image averaging has been used to characterize the DNA content of nucleosomes however there are no methods that allow visualization of DNA within protein DNA complexes at a single molecule level. Because both proteins and DNA are significantly charged and interactions between proteins and DNA result in charge neutralization we reasoned that it may be possible to visualize the path of DNA inside protein DNA complexes by high resolution imaging of their electrostatic potential.

Electrostatic force microscopy EFM and Kelvin probe force microscopy KPFM have been used to image the electrostatic surface potential of a large variety of materials with high spatial resolution and sensitivity. There are several different modes of EFM and KPFM. Generally a modulated bias voltage V Vsin t is applied between the tip and sample. This bias generates an electrostatic force between the tip and the sample which is the sum of three components 

Accordingly there exists a need for improved methods systems and computer readable media for imaging a biological sample including charged structures residing beneath the surface of the sample.

The subject matter described herein includes methods systems and computer readable media for dual resonance frequency enhanced electrostatic force microscopy. One method includes applying an alternating current AC bias and a direct current DC bias to an atomic force microscopy cantilever wherein the AC bias has a frequency greater than a fundamental resonance frequency of the cantilever. The method further includes mechanically vibrating the cantilever at a frequency different from the frequency of the AC bias. The method further includes physically and electrostatically scanning a sample in the same pass using the cantilever while vibrating the cantilever and applying the AC and DC biases to the cantilever and generating a topology image of the sample from the physical scanning and an electrostatic image of charged material under or on a surface of the sample from the electrostatic scanning.

The subject matter described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. As such the terms function node or module as used herein refer to hardware which may also include software and or firmware components for implementing the feature being described. In one exemplary implementation the subject matter described herein may be implemented using a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include non transitory computer readable media such as disk memory devices chip memory devices programmable logic devices and application specific integrated circuits. In addition a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform or may be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.

Considering the weak electrostatic signals generated by DNA and proteins we developed a sensitive high resolution Dual Resonance frequency Enhanced EFM DREEM to resolve the DNA within protein DNA complexes deposited on mica and Methods . We adapted and extended the dual frequency single pass techniques that take advantage of the resonance properties of the cantilever. To maximize resolution in both the topographic and DREEM images we use sharp highly doped silicon cantilevers and operate in repulsive intermittent contact mode Methods . Operating in repulsive mode keeps the tip at a constant minimal distance from the sample which in turn maximizes the sensitivity of detection of the electrostatic potential. To simultaneously obtain topographic and DREEM images we monitor the surface potential by applying a modulated bias voltage to the tip at the first overtone while simultaneously using standard repulsive intermittent contact mode topographic imaging near the fundamental resonance . Using the first overtone for electrostatic imaging and the fundamental frequency for topographic imaging has several advantages. First it is preferable to conduct topographic imaging of soft samples with a minimal force to avoid damage and the effective force constant at is forty times less than that at k k . Second the Q factor of the peak at is higher than that of w 500 vs 170 thus is more sensitive to changes in force gradient than . Third the contribution of the cantilever to the electrostatic force is minimized at thereby enhancing spatial resolution in the DREEM image.

Instead of using the DC bias to nullify F as is done in KPFM we take advantage of the negative charge of micaand use the DC bias together with the AC bias to generate a vibration at . We then monitor the change in vibration amplitude A and phase as a function of sample position. We obtained the highest resolution DREEM amplitude and phase images with V 0.3 to 0.5 V and V 16 to 20 V Methods . Operating in repulsive mode using these voltages A 1 nm which is 50 times smaller than the mechanical vibration amplitude A at the fundamental frequency. This Ais sufficiently large to produce high quality DREEM images and yet small enough compared to Athat no crosstalk between the DREEM and topographic signals is observed. Adepends on the force gradient F F as well as the force at because F changes the effective spring constant of the cantilever and shifts its resonance frequency which in turn reduces A . Upon engaging in repulsive mode the force gradient due to repulsive atomic interactions F a causes the resonance peak to shift to a higher frequency significantly reducing A . During scanning F a is kept constant via the topographic signal at and therefore changes in A A x y depend primarily on the electrostatic force and force gradient. For small changes in electrostatic potential the frequency shift due to changes in force gradient will dominate A x y with the electrostatic force making only a small contribution and Methods . The DREEM amplitude signal reports on the strength of the electrostatic force gradient including the static force gradient F Methods . The DREEM phase is related to the energy dissipationand therefore has a complex dependence on the potential and other properties of the sample. Notably monitoring F instead of F significantly increases spatial resolution and sensitivity because F has a shorter distance dependence than Fand a quadratic dependence on the change in electrostatic potential Methods . The spatial resolution of the DREEM images like that of the topographic images appears to be limited by the tip size.

We demonstrate the capabilities of DREEM by imaging complexes of mismatch repair MMR proteins bound to DNA. In MMR MutS homologs recognize mismatches and subsequently form multimeric complexes with MutL homologs in the presence of ATP. MutS is a dimer with DNA binding and ATPase domains and the DNA binding domains encircle and bend the DNA . In addition two MutS dimers can associate to form loops. AFM images of Taq MutS bound to a GT mismatch and two MutS dimers forming a loop between the mismatch and a DNA end show the typical smooth peaks on the DNA corresponding to Taq MutS. In the DREEM images the protein and the DNA show an increase in amplitude and a decrease in phase respectively relative to the mica surface with the protein producing greater contrast consistent with previous studies. Notably however the path of the DNA through MutS which is hidden in the AFM image can be seen in DREEM images because the interaction of the DNA with protein changes the distribution of the local electrical field and reduces the DREEM signal relative to the protein alone. This reduction in potential is expected due to charge neutralization associated with the protein DNA interaction. Inspection of these and other images not shown suggest that the contrast between the DNA and protein depends on how close the protein DNA interaction site is to the tip. If the DNA is underneath a large amount of protein then the electrostatic properties of the protein will likely screen out the effect of the DNA. In addition to visualizing the DNA inside the complex the DREEM data taken together with structural data on MutSallow us to model the general orientation of the MutS dimers in the complexes . The power of DREEM is truly revealed in the image of a large multiprotein complex of human MutS and MutL bound to DNA containing a GT mismatch . In the topographic image a large protein complex is seen on the end of the DNA. The volume of this complex is consistent with it containing 10 proteins. The length of the DNA that is not inside the protein complex is 120 nm shorter than the expected length of the DNA. Inspection of the DREEM amplitude and phase images reveals the path of the DNA in this large complex. Including the DNA inside the protein yields a DNA length that is within 5 of the expected length.

In summary the capability of DREEM to detect very small changes in electrostatic potential with high resolution makes it is powerful tool for characterizing the structure of protein DNA complexes. It provides unprecedented detail about the conformation of DNA in individual protein DNA complexes and it will likely be useful for studying the electrostatic properties of other biological specimens such as viruses and membranes as well as non biological samples such as polymers and other materials. Finally with the addition of a few components DREEM can be readily implemented on many of the commercially available AFMs.

An analysis module controls the physical and electrostatic scanning of a sample and the generation of a topography image from the mechanical scanning and an electrostatic image from the electrostatic scanning. The electrostatic image may show charged material under or on the surface of a sample as illustrated in .

In order to sense the position of cantilever AFM includes a four quadrant photo detector that detects light from a light source that is reflected from a surface positioned on the end of the cantilever . The output of photodetector is provided to an internal lock in amplifier and through a feedback loop to a piezo scanner which controls the motion of cantilever in the z direction.

Sample is mounted on a mica substrate . Mica substrate is mounted on a conductive layer which connects mica substrate to ground. Conductive layer may be a silver paced or other suitable material. Mica substrate and conductive layer are mounted on a glass substrate . Although not illustrated in conductive layer may extend around the periphery of glass substrate to make a suitable ground connection.

In step the sample is physically and electrostatically scanned in the same pass using the cantilever while vibrating and applying the AC and DC biases to the cantilever. In step a topography image of the sample is generated from the physical scanning and an electrostatic image of charged material under or on a surface of the sample is generated from the electrostatic scanning.

In our setup we apply an AC bias at the first overtone and monitor the change in vibration amplitude A x y as a function of position. As demonstrated below because we are monitoring very small changes in surface potential on a modestly charged surface mica A x y will be dominated by changes in the force gradient with only small contributions from the force. This method is similar to amplitude slope detection method used to monitor the atomic force gradient in topographic AFM images.

Because the AC bias is applied at the first overtone frequency the applied force induces a vibration with a free amplitude no dampening where Qand kare the quality factor and effective spring constant respectively of the first overtone of the cantilever and a is a constant that depends on the capacitance gradient tip radius and tip sample separation. In addition the force gradient F F changes the effective spring constant of the cantilever and shifts its resonance frequencies by 2 where kis the spring constant of the cantilever which is equal to k the spring constant of thereby reducing the vibration amplitude at to 1 This approximation assumes that the applied force is just off the resonance frequency where the slope of the peak is maximum and b 2 3 3. Notably the frequency shift depends on both the static and dynamic components of the electrostatic force gradient i.e. F and F and is dominated by F which depends on V .

Because we are operating in intermittent contact the force gradient F a due to repulsive atomic interactions is significantly greater than those due to the attractive electrostatic interactions F and therefore 0. We verified that 0 in our experiments by monitoring the vibration amplitude as a function of the AC bias frequency data not shown . Under our imaging conditions Ais 1 2Aafter engaging in repulsive mode. During scanning however F should be constant because the topographic signal at maintains a constant atomic force gradient and therefore changes in x y will be dominated by F .

Assuming that the atomic force gradient is constant as a function of x y position of the tip the change in A A x y due to changes in the electrostatic force and force gradient as a function of position on the surface is approximately x y x y x y x y x y x y x y x y x y x y x y For large changes in surface potential x y during scanning will be dominated by the electrostatic force as is seen in the work of Stark and colleagues. In contrast for small changes in surface potential such as those in the current experiments where x y is very small only the difference in potential between the mica substrate and the deposited protein and DNA molecules A x y will be dominated by the electrostatic force gradient. For these conditions A x y 

Because Fis sensitive to electrostatic potential over a greater distance than F the tip cone and the cantilever as well as the tip apex make contributions to F x y and therefore F x y will be averaged over a greater area of the sample than F x y . Consequently for small changes in surface potential 

In our experiments we take advantage of the fact that the mica is a negatively charged surfaceand use Vand a large Vto generate an oscillation at and measure A x y . Because 

To obtain high resolution topography and DREEM images we used highly doped silicon cantilevers PPP FMR from Nanosensor 2.8 N m instead of metal coated cantilevers because the radius of curvature of the metal coated tip is 20 nm while that for the non coated tip is 7 nm. The conductivity of the doped cantilevers is comparable to that of the metal coated tips. It should be noted however that these doped silicon tips are easily oxidized which results in the formation of a nanometer thin non conductive oxidized layer. Consequently to make a conductive connection between the cantilever and the external input power source it is essential to penetrate the oxide layer. As described below we have devised a straightforward method for making a reliable connection by scraping the cantilever chip and simultaneously coating it with colloidal liquid silver. The silver on the chip makes contact with the metallic tip holder for the Asylum AFM system. For use with instruments that do not have grounded tip holders ground wires can be attached with patch of liquid silver.

Detailed instructions for cantilever preparation. A small amount of the colloidal liquid silver Ted Pella Inc. product 16034 is spread on a clean glass slide. The cantilever is held with one pair of tweezers. Another pair of tweezers is dipped in the liquid silver and these silver coated tweezers are used to scrape and coat the edges of the silicon chip and the silicon surface of the chip on the side opposite from the cantilever tip. The scraping removes the oxidized silicon SiO layer on the surface and replaces it with a conductive silver layer. Once completed the silver coated chip is allowed to dry for 5 minutes. Once dry it can be loaded into the AFM. This process simultaneously scratches away the oxide layer and covers the silicon with silver preventing any oxidation and forming a conductive layer that can be easily connected to the external electrical sources.

In our setup the bias is applied to the tip and the sample is grounded. To ground the sample which is deposited on mica we use liquid silver to connect a thin piece of mica to a glass slide and we also make a connection to ground using liquid silver. Specifically after the sample has been deposited on mica a box cutter is used to cleave a thin layer of mica containing the deposited samples on the topside . The opposite side of the mica the downside which does not contain the sample is coated with liquid silver and held in the air until the liquid silver is dried. This sample is then attached to a glass slide with liquid silver.

To prepare the glass slide the center of a glass slide is coated with a patch of liquid silver at least as large as the mica. A streak of silver leading from this central patch to one of the furthest sides is painted and the streak is continued for a short distance on the other side of the glass slide to ensure that it makes proper contact with the metal on the AFM base for grounding. The silver coated mica is placed silver side down on the wet silver patch and the slide is allowed to dry for 30 minutes. It is important not to press down too hard when placing the mica on the silver patch to avoid causing patches where the there is no silver.

AFM topographic images are collected in standard repulsive intermittent contact mode at the fundamental resonance frequency MFP 3D AFM Asylum Research . With the cantilevers used in this study PPP FMR from Nanosensor 2.8 N m we found that the highest quality topographic images were obtained with a vibration amplitude of 50 nm and a set point such that the force on the sample is minimized while maintaining a repulsive interaction with surface. Not surprisingly we found that the quality of the DREEM images is highly dependent on the quality of the topographic images.

To determine the optimum AC and DC biases for DREEM imaging we measured Aand collected images as a function of Vand V from 0 to 20 V and 0.5 to 0.5 V respectively using the instrumental setup shown in . When the tip is in contact with mica in either repulsive or attractive noncontact mode Aincreases linearly upon varying Vfrom 0.5 to 0.3 V or Vfrom 0 to 20 V data not shown as expected. In general we found that the DREEM image quality increases with increasing vibration amplitude at . Notably however the largest amplitudes that we employed for DREEM imaging at the first overtone are very small 1 nm compared to the mechanical vibration 50 nm at the fundamental frequency which prevents crosstalk of the electrical signal into the topographic signal. As expected we also did not detect any crosstalk from the topography in the DREEM images. The time constant for collection of the DREEM signal at was 1 ms. Images were collected at a scan speed of 2 Hz and the scan speed is limited by collection of the topographic signal not the DREEM signal.

Prior to deposition the mica was pealed to reveal a fresh surface and incubated in a desiccator with a 30 microliters of aminopropyl triethoxy silane APTES on a piece of parafilm for 15 minutes to modify the mica surface with a low density of amine groups to facilitate deposition of DNA. The proteins and DNA were incubated together at room temperature for two minutes crosslinked with 0.08 gluteraldehyde for 1 minute and deposited on APTES treated mica rinsed with water and dried with nitrogen before imaging. Some protein DNA complexes were purified using an approximately two centimeter agarose bead gel filtration column prior to deposition to remove excess free proteins. The DNA is a linearized 2030 base pair plasmid containing a single GT mismatch which serves as a recognition site for MutS and MutS 375 base pairs from one end. The DNA lengths were measured using IGOR Pro. The volume analysis was done as described previously.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

The disclosure of each of the following references is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

