---

title: Renewing registrations for a plurality of client applications that are associated with the same host server via an explicit piggybacking scheme
abstract: In an embodiment, a server registers first and seconds client applications on the same client device. The first client application on a client device obtains, from the server or some other source, application-to-application communicative information for facilitating communication between the first and second client applications. Based on the application-to-application communicative information, the first client application configures a given registration request message that includes (i) a request for renewing the first client application's registration with the server, and (ii) a request for renewing the second client application's registration with the same server, and transmits the given registration request message to the server. The server renews the registrations for the first and second client applications in response to the given registration request message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09225579&OS=09225579&RS=09225579
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09225579
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130305
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to renewing registrations for a plurality of client applications that are associated with the same host server via an explicit piggybacking scheme.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

It is typical for client devices e.g. mobile devices such as cell phones that use the above noted communication systems or other types of access networks e.g. WiFi etc. to maintain registrations for client applications with one or more host servers. For example a user may be logged into his her Facebook account with a Facebook host server via a Facebook client application on his her cellular phone a user may be logged onto his her email account with an email host server via an email client application on his her cellular phone etc. These client application registrations are typically temporary and require periodic renewals or else the client applications will be deregistered by their respective host servers. It is also possible that two or more client applications maintain active registrations with the same host server. In this case the two or more client applications will typically be required to transmit independent registration renewal requests for extending or renewing the registrations of the respective client applications.

In an embodiment a server registers first and second client applications on the same client device. The first client application on a client device obtains from the server or some other source application to application communicative information for facilitating communication between the first and second client applications. Based on the application to application communicative information the first client application configures a given registration request message that includes i a request for renewing the first client application s registration with the server and ii a request for renewing the second client application s registration with the same server and transmits the given registration request message to the server. The server renews the registrations for the first and second client applications in response to the given registration request message.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet and or to provide content e.g. web page downloads to the UEs.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B AP a BS Node B or eNodeB in the RAN etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. the application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the application server etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the application server etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

It is typical for client devices to maintain registrations for client applications with one or more host servers. For example a user may be logged into his her Facebook account with a Facebook host server via a Facebook client application on his her UE a user may be logged onto his her email account with an email host server via an email client application on his her UE etc. These client application registrations are typically temporary and require periodic renewals or else the client applications will be deregistered by their respective host servers. It is also possible that two or more client applications running on the same device maintain active registrations with the same host server. In this case the two or more client applications will typically be required to transmit independent registration renewal requests from the same device for extending or renewing the registrations of the respective client applications.

Referring to App transmits a registration message to the application server . In the registration message of is shown as implemented via a Session Initiation Protocol SIP REGISTER message that includes an App identifier ID an IP address and port number used by App on the client device A a device identifier ID of the client device A. In an example the port number used by App may be unique to App while the IP address used by App can also be shared with other client applications so that the client applications can be distinguished by their port number. The application server can thereby use the IP address in conjunction with App s port number to route messages from external devices to App on the client device A. Also the App ID may be implemented as a globally unique ID that distinguishes App from other client applications. Thus any other client device with App can use the same App ID for App. Also the device ID can correspond to a globally unique identifier for the client device A that distinguishes client device A from any other client device such as a MAC address. For convenience of explanation the registration messages described throughout this application will refer to SIP REGISTER messages in accordance with SIP but it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to non SIP implementations.

Referring to at the application server acknowledges ACKs the SIP REGISTER message from by sending a 200 OK message to App on the client device A based on the IP address of the client device A and App s port number from the SIP REGISTER message of . Also in response to the SIP REGISTER message from the application server optionally authenticates App s SIP REGISTER message . If the SIP REGISTER message from is properly authenticated at or if authentication is skipped the application server registers App by establishing a record for App that includes i App s ID ii the IP address and port number associated with App and iii the device ID associated with the client device A . The application server also starts an expiration timer for the registration of App whereby the application server is configured to de register App upon expiration of App s expiration timer.

The application server sends a message to App on the client device A that indicates service is available for App and App sends an ACK in response to the service available message . At App starts a time to live TTL timer that is configured to expire before the expiration timer for App that is running at the application server . Expiration of App s TTL timer will trigger App to transmit another SIP REGISTER message for renewing or extending App s registration with the application server by resetting App s expiration timer.

At some later point in time App transmits a SIP REGISTER message to the application server which includes an App ID the IP address and port number used by App on the client device A and the device ID of the client device A. As noted above the IP address for App can be the same IP address used by App while the respective port numbers for App and App are different.

Referring to at the application server ACKs the SIP REGISTER message from by sending a 200 OK message to App on the client device A based on the IP address of the client device A and App s port number from the SIP REGISTER message of . Also in response to the SIP REGISTER message from the application server optionally authenticates App s SIP REGISTER message . If the SIP REGISTER message from is properly authenticated at or if authentication is skipped the application server registers App by establishing a record for App that includes i App s ID ii the IP address and port number associated with App and iii the device ID associated with the client device A . The application server also starts an expiration timer for the registration of App whereby the application server is configured to de register App upon expiration of App s expiration timer.

The application server sends a message to App on the client device A that indicates service is available for App and App sends an ACK in response to the service available message . At App starts a TTL timer that is configured to expire before the expiration timer for App that is running at the application server . Expiration of App s TTL timer will trigger App to transmit another SIP REGISTER message for renewing or extending App s registration with the application server by resetting App s expiration timer.

Referring to the client device A determines that App s TTL timer has expired . This triggers App to transmit another SIP REGISTER message at that functions to request the application server to extend or renew App s registration with the application server . The application server ACKs the SIP REGISTER message from with a 200 OK message and the application server also renews the registration for App by resetting or extending App s expiration timer . As will be appreciated the operation of pushes back the point in time at which App s registration would otherwise expire. The application server notifies App that its registration has been renewed by sending a service available message and App ACKs the service available message . App resets or restarts the App TTL timer at such that App will send another SIP REGISTER message for renewing App s registration with the application server the next time the App TTL timer expires and so on.

While different client applications usually register themselves with different host servers e.g. a Facebook client application registers with a Facebook server an email client application registers with an email server etc. it is becoming more common for different client applications to maintain separate registrations with the same host server as shown in . However the conventional approach shown in whereby each client application independently engages in its own registration renewal procedure can be wasteful in terms of resource usage when multiple client applications maintain their registrations with the same host server e.g. the client device is required to acquire a traffic channel and transmit a registration renewal request each time any of its TTL timers expire for any of its client applications even if two or more of the client applications expire in close proximity . Accordingly embodiments of the invention relate to reducing the amount of messaging used to renew registrations for multiple client applications that are registered with the same host server by consolidating or aggregating registration renewal requests for different client applications into a single transmission.

Referring to the application to application communicative information obtained at can correspond to any information which permits App to interact with App on the client device A. As an example the application to application communicative information can correspond to Inter process communication IPC information which can be alternatively referred to as Inter thread communication information or Inter application communication information . As will be discussed below in more detail with respect to the application to application communicative information can be delivered to App via the application server in an example. However the application to application communicative information is not necessarily limited to IPC information. For example certain device OSs may natively support communication between its resident applications in which case the application to application communicative information is simply a leveraging of a natively supported OS feature. In another example App and App may not directly communicate with each other but instead App could simply access status data for App that is stored in memory on the client device A. Thus the application to application communicative information can correspond in some cases to App retrieving App specific information without directly engaging with App. Thereby the application to application communicative information is intended to be interpreted broadly so long as the application to application communicative information is capable of facilitating the functionality discussed below.

Referring to App determines to transmit a request for renewing App s registration with the application server . As an example the determination of can be based upon App s TTL timer expiring on the client device A. At App uses the application to application communicative information to query whether any other client applications on the client device A maintain registrations with the application server and if so if any of those registrations are approaching expiration. If App detects one or more such client applications App determines to piggyback registration renewal request s for those applications onto the registration renewal request message to be transmitted by App. For example the application to application communicative information can be used to retrieve the amount of time remaining on App s TTL timer before expiration and App may determine to piggyback a registration renewal request for App onto its own registration renewal request if the retrieved amount of time remaining on App s TTL timer is below a threshold.

At under the assumption that App determines to piggyback a registration renewal request for App onto App s registration renewal message App configures a given registration request message e.g. a SIP REGISTER message that includes i a request for renewing App s registration with the application server and ii a request for renewing App s registration with the application server . As will be appreciated if App determines to piggyback registration renewal requests for more than one other client application at then more than one extra registration renewal request will be piggybacked onto the given registration request message at . At App transmits the given registration request message to the application server .

Based on the application to application communicative information provided to App at the application server receives a given registration request message from App that includes i a request for renewing App s registration with the application server and ii a request for renewing App s registration with the application server e.g. as in of . To put another way App s registration renewal request is piggybacked onto the registration renewal request for App. In response to the given registration request message the application server extends or renews registrations for both App and App e.g. by resetting their respective registration expiration timers .

Referring to the IPC information being uploaded can be based in part upon the type of OS implemented on the client device. For example if the client device runs iOS the IPC information can include URLs associated with the client applications such that App reports its URL s as the App IPC information at App reports its URL s as the App IPC information at and App reports its URL s as the App IPC information at . In another example if the client device runs an Android OS the IPC information can include the Broadcast Intent associated with the client applications such that App reports its Broadcast Intent as the App IPC information at App reports its Broadcast Intent as the App IPC information at and App reports its Broadcast Intent as the App IPC information at .

In an example at of App can use the application to application communicative information to determine if any TTL timers for any other client applications that are registered with the application server are going to expire within a threshold period of time. If not App determines at not to piggyback a registration renewal for any other client applications onto App s registration request and the process advances to of . If so App determines at to piggyback a registration renewal for the detected same server soon expiring client applications onto App s registration request at . In the embodiment of assume that App determines to piggyback an App registration renewal request at .

Accordingly App configures and then transmits a SIP REGISTER message at that functions to request the application server to extend or renew both registrations for both App and App with the application server e.g. as in and of or of . In particular the SIP REGISTER message transmitted at includes the App ID the App port number the App ID the App port number the device ID and the IP address used by both App and App. At the application server ACKs the SIP REGISTER message from by sending a 200 OK message to App on the client device A based on the IP address of the client device A and App s port number from the SIP REGISTER message of . The application server renews the registration for App by resetting or extending App s expiration timer and the application server also renews the registration for App by resetting or extending App s expiration timer . By contrast in separate SIP REGISTER messages were required for renewing registrations for App and App despite App and App being registered with the same server i.e. the application server . As will be appreciated reducing the number of SIP REGISTER messages required for extending the App and App registrations with the application server as compared with the conventional implementation improves resource usage efficiencies in the system.

The application server notifies App that its registration has been renewed by sending a service available message and App ACKs the service available message . The application server also notifies App that its registration has been renewed by sending a service available message and App ACKs the service available message . While illustrates two independent Service Available messages being transmitted from the application server to App and App on the client device A at and in an alternative embodiment one Service Available message can be piggybacked on the other similar to the piggybacking that occurs for the SIP REGISTER message at . For example the Service Available message can be configured to indicate to App that App s registration has also been renewed e.g. by including an identification of App in addition to App in the Service Available message . App can then notify App using the application to application communicative information. In this scenario additional security and authentication protocols may be implemented for App to accept App s indication of registration renewal e.g. because App may be less trusted by App than the application server itself . In yet another alternative embodiment the ACKs transmitted at and can instead be consolidated or piggybacked. For example if App notifies App of App s registration renewal based on a piggybacked Service Available message and App is able to verify that App accepts the registration renewal notification for App App can then send a piggybacked ACK for App along with its own ACK at . The piggybacked ACK can be configured similarly to the SIP REGISTER message from in the sense that both App and App are identified.

Irrespective of how the Service Available messages and ACKs are exchanged between App resets or restarts the App TTL timer at and App resets or restarts the App TTL timer at . While not shown explicitly in if the App TTL timer is the next TTL timer to expire App can operate similarly to App in whereby App uses application to application communicative information to evaluate whether to piggyback App s registration request onto the App registration request and so on.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

