---

title: Coatings, composition and method related to non-spalling low density hardface coatings
abstract: A heterogeneous composite body that is spall resistant and comprises a substantially discontinuous cermet phase in a substantially continuous metal rich matrix phase. The heterogeneous composite body is typically bonded to a substrate to form a hardfacing on the substrate. The heterogeneous composite body exhibits ductile phase toughening with a strain to failure of at least about 2 percent, a modulus of elasticity of less than about 35 million pounds per square inch, and a density of less than about 7 grams per cubic centimeter. The metal rich matrix phase between the ceramic rich regions in the heterogeneous composite body has an average minimum span of about 0.5 to 8 microns to allow ductility in the heterogeneous composite body. The heterogeneous composite body has a Vicker's hardness number of greater than approximately 500. The ceramic rich regions exhibit high hardness as compared with the matrix phase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09376573&OS=09376573&RS=09376573
owner: MesoCoat Inc.
number: 09376573
owner_city: Euclid
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 699 779 filed Feb. 3 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 149 680 filed Feb. 3 2009.

This invention was made with government support under contract EPA EP D 06 053 microcomposite coatings for chrome replacement awarded by Environmental Protection Agency at 1025 F St Washington D.C. and subcontract USAF 0040 SC 0024 1 under GDIT prime contract FA8601 04 F 0040 awarded by the United States Air Force at Oklahoma City Okla.

The invention relates in general to hardface coatings compositions and methods and more particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to hardface coatings compositions and methods that relate to spall resistant low density hardface coatings.

Hardface coatings particularly chromium and tungsten based coatings formed by the thermal spraying of composite powders are well known but they are generally prone to spalling and they are heavy. Thermally sprayed tungsten carbide cobalt coatings for example are very hard brittle and dense. The formation of coatings by thermal spraying ceramics such as ceramic nitrides had been proposed but ceramics generally decompose instead of melting. For example ceramic nitrides decompose at about 1900 degrees centigrade. Thermal spraying operations are typically carried out at temperatures well in excess of 1900 degrees centigrade so attempts to form coatings by thermal spraying ceramic nitrides had generally been unsuccessful. The application of ceramic nitrides via physical vapor deposition and chemical vapor deposition operations for forming coatings that control wear and friction had been previously proposed but such vapor deposition operations tended to be slow and expensive.

Previous attempts to improve wear had typically involved making harder and stiffer coatings at the expense of ductility. In general as the coatings became harder and stiffer the occurrence of spalling increased.

Prior thermal spray operations for forming hardface coatings typically had as an objective the melting of at least the sprayed material and often also the surface of the substrate. Thorough melting of the sprayed powder was generally believed to be beneficial and necessary because it improved the prospects for the formation of a metallurgical bond as distinct from a mechanical bond between the coating and the substrate. This thorough melting generally resulted in the composition of the coating being more or less uniform throughout. Typical prior thermal spray operations included for example HVOF high velocity oxy fuel laser forming plasma spray plasma transferred arc and the like.

Unfortunately these thermally sprayed coatings because of having high hardness are brittle and are subject to spalling and catastrophic failure when subjected to impacts point loading or other high stress situations such as those that exist in landing gear cylinders used in carrier based aircraft. This spallation is caused by intensifying the stress in the high modulus coating combined with its low strain tolerance. Furthermore these coatings are very dense ranging from about 8 grams per cubic centimeter for chrome carbide nickel chrome and about 16 grams per cubic centimeter for tungsten carbide cobalt coatings. These higher density coatings add substantial weight have low throughput through HVOF gun systems and impose significant penalties in fuel economy and payload for aircraft and other transportation systems. Finally these extremely hard coatings with limited ductility must be diamond super finished to prevent excessive seal wear and eliminate surface flaws that cause early failure. Due to their brittleness and high modulus they are extremely sensitive to flaws and defects on the surface and in the coating. They are very difficult to apply which limits their utility and the number of qualified applicators.

High stress and wear aerospace applications such as aircraft landing gear require a hardface coating on structural elements. Many such applications had previously involved the use of WC Co coated high strength steels. It had been proposed to replace such high strength steels with titanium alloys because of the weight savings that could be realized. The titanium alloys have a modulus of elasticity that is less than the previous high strength steels. The previous WC Co coatings have been found to spall off of the titanium as it flexes. A hardface coating that has a modulus of elasticity low enough to not spall off of titanium is needed. For purposes of weight reduction structural members with thin cross sections had been proposed. Such structural members tended to flex and deform. This resulted in spalling of the hardface coatings. Again a ductile hardface coating was needed. The formation of a ductile hardface coating previously appeared to be unachievable. Hardness and ductility were generally believed to be unachievable in the same coating.

The use of thermal spray operations to form heterogeneous coatings in which isolated high ceramic content regions are embedded within a ductile matrix is disclosed in Sherman published U.S. application No. 2007 0141270 published Jun. 21 2007 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth hereat.

The present invention has been developed in response to the current state of the art and in particular in response to these and other problems and needs that have not been fully or completely solved by currently available expedients. Thus it is an overall object of the present invention to effectively resolve at least the problems and shortcomings identified herein. Embodiments of the present invention are particularly suitable for use as hardfacings in aerospace structural elements where ruggedness reliability durability and low density are significant factors for functionality and safety.

An embodiment of the present invention comprises a heterogeneous composite body that is spall resistant and comprises a substantially discontinuous cermet phase in a substantially continuous metal rich matrix phase.

Although capable of standing alone without a substrate in certain embodiments the heterogeneous composite bodies are bonded to a substrate such as for example steel titanium aluminum or their alloys particularly their high strength alloys. Such substrates are typically metals that require a hardfacing for purposes of wear ruggedness corrosion resistance and durability.

The heterogeneous composite bodies exhibit ductile phase toughening with a strain to failure of at least about 2 percent a modulus of elasticity of less than about 35 million pounds per square inch and a density in some embodiments of less than about 7 grams per cubic centimeter and in further embodiments less than about 6 grams per cubic centimeter. The metal rich matrix phase between the ceramic rich regions in the heterogeneous composite bodies have an average span of about 0.5 to 10 microns to allow ductility in the heterogeneous composite bodies. The heterogeneous composite bodies have a Vicker s hardness number VHN of greater than approximately 500 in some embodiments and greater than approximately 650 in further embodiments up to approximately 1200 VHN.

The discontinuous cermet phases are in the form of ceramic rich regions embedded within the heterogeneous composite bodies and includes ceramic particles and a cermet binder. The ceramic particles have a Moh s hardness of at least approximately 7.5 and in certain embodiments of from about 8 or 9 a modulus of elasticity of less than approximately 46 and in some embodiments of less than approximately 40 million pounds per square inch and an average particle size of from about 0.1 to 10 microns. The ceramic rich regions exhibit high hardness as compared with the matrix phase.

According to certain embodiments the heterogeneous composite bodies are prepared by agglomerating fine ceramic particles and thoroughly dispersed cermet binder into core cermet particles. The core cermet particles are then combined with metal rich matrix forming materials into heterogeneous composite bodies. The combining operation may be performed by a conventional thermal spraying operation a conventional electrolytic deposition process or the like. Where thermal spraying is employed to form the heterogeneous composite bodies the core cermet particles are combined with the metal rich matrix forming materials into a feedstock for the thermal spraying operation. The thermal spraying operation may be conducted for example according to the teachings of Sherman published U.S. application No. 2007 0141270. HVOF thermal spraying processes have been found to be particularly suited to the production of certain embodiments of the present invention. When conventional electrolytic deposition procedures are employed the core cermet particles may just be dispersed in the bath so they become entrapped in the coating as it forms.

To acquaint persons skilled in the pertinent arts most closely related to the present invention an embodiment of a heterogeneous composite body that illustrates a best mode now contemplated for putting the invention into practice is described herein by and with reference to the annexed drawings that form a part of the specification. This exemplary embodiment is described in detail without attempting to show all of the various forms and modifications in which the invention might be embodied. As such the embodiments shown and described herein are illustrative and as will become apparent to those skilled in the arts can be modified in numerous ways within the scope and spirit of the invention the invention being measured by the appended claims and not by the details of the specification or drawings.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views. It is to be understood that the drawings are diagrammatic and schematic representations of various embodiments of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention in any way. The use of words and phrases herein with reference to specific embodiments is not intended to limit the meanings of such words and phrases to those specific embodiments. Words and phrases herein are intended to have their ordinary meanings in the art unless a specific definition is set forth at length herein.

Referring particularly to the drawings in the embodiments chosen for the purposes of illustration there is illustrated generally at a core cermet particle comprised of an agglomerated intimate mixture of ceramic particles and a cermet binder. The core cermet particle in the embodiment of is encapsulated within a substantially continuous coating of a metal rich matrix forming material . In the embodiment of particles of metal rich matrix forming material of which are typical are associated with core cermet particle by being adhered to the core cermet particle in a discontinuous coating.

In the embodiment of a heterogeneous composite body is formed by selecting an agglomerated and consolidated core cermet particle coating it in coating step to form a substantially continuously coated cermet particle that is substantially encapsulated within metal rich matrix forming material . Coated cermet particle is supplied as the feedstock for a thermal spraying step . The softened coated cermet particle impinges on a substrate not shown to form the heterogeneous composite body . Substantially continuously coated cermet particle deforms to form a discontinuous cermet phase in heterogeneous composite body . The discontinuous cermet phase in the embodiment chosen for illustration comprises ceramic rich regions of which is typical. Such ceramic rich regions are generally in the form of lenticular shaped deposits embedded within and generally spaced from one another by a substantially continuous metal rich matrix phase . The ceramic rich regions are generally formed from the deformed core cermet particles while the metal rich matrix phase is generally formed from the metal rich matrix forming material . Additives may be included at any stage in the formation of the cermet particle. Such additives are indicated generally at . Such additives are generally conventional and they are included for beneficially modifying the behavior or properties of the cermet particle. The ceramic rich regions are generally spaced apart by a span as indicated generally at and . The span is irregular in shape and size but exhibits an average distance that is largely dictated by the proportioning of the metal rich matrix forming material to the coated cermet particle . The spans are substantially filled with the continuous metal rich matrix phase . Replacing the substantially continuous coated cermet particle with a discontinuous coated cermet particle as illustrated in provides substantially the same heterogeneous composite body . The use of particles of loose metal rich matrix forming material not illustrated results in substantially the same heterogeneous composite body provided that the feedstock is very thoroughly mixed so as to form a loose discontinuous coating around the core cermet particle.

According to certain embodiments the heterogeneous composite body has a strain to failure of from more than 1 and in certain embodiments about 2 to 6 percent and a modulus of from approximately 35 to 15 or 30 to 20 million pounds per square inch. In some embodiments the metal rich matrix phase has an average span between the cermet regions of the discontinuous cermet phase of about 0.5 to 10 microns and in some additional embodiments a minimum span of about 0.4 or 0.5 up to a maximum of about 8 microns and in some further embodiments a span of from about 0.5 to 2 microns.

The span of the metal matrix phase between the cermet regions has been found to contribute substantially to the ductility of the heterogeneous composite body. The span of metal rich matrix is in the nature of a ductile phase inclusion that has a minimum average dimension. The span must be sufficient to permit the metal rich matrix phase to work harden. A minimum span of approximately 0.4 to 0.5 microns has been found to be required to achieve proper ductility. If this span is too small there is little or no work hardening and the heterogeneous composite body tends to break under stress. If the average span is greater than it needs to be to permit work hardening generally less than about 8 and in some embodiments about 6 or 5 or 2 or less microns the hardness density and abrasion resistance of the heterogeneous composite body may not be sufficient for the intended uses. The amounts of cermet and metal rich matrix phase are proportioned in the heterogeneous composite body to achieve an optimum average span for a particular heterogeneous composite body. For certain embodiments the optimum proportions are determined by an initial calculated approximation using the Rule of Mixtures followed by an iterative process of actual testing.

The metal rich matrix phase comprises a ductile metal. The metal rich matrix phase extends between the cermet regions that are formed from the cermet particles. The cermet regions are ceramic rich as compared to the metal rich matrix phase. Certain embodiments for example utilize as the ductile metal at least one of nickel and cobalt and their alloys Ni NiP NiP NiP Ni Cr Fe Cr Al Ni NiB Co CoP Fe Al alloys Ni Al alloys titanium and its alloys including Ni Ti alloys copper and its alloys and mixtures and alloys of these. The metals rich matrix phase should have a modulus of less than approximately 42 and in some embodiments less than approximately 35 million pounds per square inch. The modulus exhibited by chrome is 42 million pounds per square inch. The metal in the metal rich matrix phase should melt below about 1900 degrees centigrade the decomposition temperature of silicon nitride . The material in the metal rich matrix phase should not react significantly with the ceramic at the temperatures encountered in a thermal spraying operation.

The metal rich matrix forming material generally comprises from about 5 to 40 volume percent V of the feedstock from which the heterogeneous composite body is formed and according to some embodiments from about 5 or 10 or 15 to 20 or 25 to 35V . The cermet particles that are used as feedstock in a thermal spraying operation generally have average particle sizes in the range of from about 10 to 60 and in some embodiments from about 20 to 50 microns. The cermet particle size depends largely on the requirements of the particular spray gun that is used and the thermal mass and density of the particular particles. In general particle sizes below 10 microns tend to plug many spray guns and particles above 60 microns tend to cause grit blasting of the substrate against which they are sprayed.

According to certain embodiments the heterogeneous composite bodies have a density of less than about 6 grams per cubic centimeter. To achieve this the amount of low density ceramic must be maximized while still achieving the desired strain to failure and modulus properties. Where the mode of application involves thermal spraying and ceramic nitrides are involved there is an additional consideration. There is a balance between the cermet binder and the ceramic nitride. Ceramic nitrides typically decompose instead of melting. For example SiNdecomposes at about 1900 degrees centigrade. Thermal spraying systems typically operate at temperatures that are significantly above this decomposition temperature. Unprotected nitride ceramics decompose at the temperatures that are normally employed in thermal spraying operations. When the cermet binder is very thoroughly distributed in the cermet for example by coating the ceramic particles or employing extended mixing times with cermet binder particles of approximately a micron in average diameter less decomposition of the ceramic particles occurs. While not wishing to be bound by any theory the thoroughly distributed cermet binder apparently tends to hold the gaseous decomposition products in intimate contact with the ceramic particles so the decomposition reaction is kinetically suppressed. There needs to be sufficient cermet binder and it must be thoroughly enough distributed to suppress the decomposition of the ceramic particles. According to some embodiments less than approximately 20 percent of the ceramic nitrides decompose during thermal spraying. Without enough thoroughly distributed cermet binder in the cermet the decomposition rate approaches 100 percent. For certain embodiments the optimum proportions and mixing operations are determined for a particular ceramic cermet binder combination by an initial calculated approximation based on the Rule of Mixtures followed by an iterative process of actual testing. According to certain embodiments the ceramic particles comprises from about 30 to 80 or from about 40 to 70 or from about 40 to 50 volume percent of the agglomerated core cermet particles.

According to certain embodiments the average particle sizes of the ceramic particles range from about 0.01 or lower to about 10 microns. In further embodiments the ceramic particle average sizes range from about 0.1 to 8 microns or 0.3 to 8 microns and in additional embodiments from about 0.3 to 5 microns. With average ceramic particle sizes larger than from about 8 to 10 microns the resulting heterogeneous composite bodies tend to exhibit higher corrosion and wear rates than exhibited by heterogeneous composite bodies with ceramic particles below about 10 microns in size. The lower practical limit on ceramic particle size is imposed by processing limitations. Below about 0.1 microns it becomes difficult to produce consistent uniform cermets.

The ceramic particles according to certain embodiments are ceramics with a high hardness to stiffness ratio. That is such ceramics have a high hardness and a low modulus. Suitable ceramics with the necessary hardness and low modulus of elasticity include for example the nitrides carbonitrides and oxynitrides of silicon chromium vanadium aluminum zirconium niobium and mixtures thereof zircon zirconia sapphire and mullite. Alumina by itself has a modulus of about 48 to 50 million pounds per square inch but it can be satisfactorily blended with other ceramics that have a lower modulus or it may be used in small volume fractions. Zircon has a modulus of about 21 million pounds per square inch and zirconia has a modulus of about 35 million pounds per square inch. Mullite has a Moh s hardness of about 9 and a modulus of about 38 million pounds per square inch. In certain embodiments the ceramic particles comprise at least one of SiN VN VN CrN CrN ZrN NbN SiCN SiON or SiALON. Nitrides exhibit low friction and generally a high thermal compatability with metals.

The cermet binder in certain embodiments comprises metal particles having an average size of less than about 5 microns down to about 0.5 microns and in further embodiments from about 2 to 0.5 microns. For the purposes of safety the particle size of metallic cermet binders should be above that at which they become explosive when exposed to air. Suitable metals according to certain embodiments include for example Ni Co Fe and their alloys with Cr Al and Ti and mixtures thereof. In further embodiments the cermet binder is a metal coating on the ceramic particles. Such metal coatings are applied by conventional techniques including for example chemical vapor deposition vigorous mixing or milling under conditions where the metal is smeared onto the ceramic or the like.

Spallation had become a significant problem for prior hardface coatings particularly on high stress and thin section structural components. Spallation is a combination of modulus the amount of stress built up for a given deflection and ductility or strain tolerance. It is not just modulus it is a combination of modulus and ductility or toughness interlacing with adhesive strength. Ceramics generally have strain tolerance of less than 0.7 percent combined with high modulus and generally poor adhesion. Previous hardfacing materials generally had high modulus relatively poor strain tolerance ductility WC Co is about 0.5 0.8 percent . Heterogeneous composite bodies according to the present invention have low modulus or little modulus mismatch with a substrate to which it is adhered matched to steel in the ideal case where steel is used as a substrate so there is little strain mismatch good adhesion above about 10 000 pounds per square inch and very high toughness or strain tolerance above 1 percent and in most embodiments above about 2 percent and for some embodiments above about 3 percent . Strain tolerance means that defects work harden and redirect strain away from a deformation zone which is not generally a property enjoyed by prior hardface coatings. The following examples of the best mode presently contemplated for the practice of the present invention will illustrate the practice of the present invention and suggest additional embodiments to those skilled in the art.

The first of two agglomerated microcomposite powders were prepared by ball milling about 0.5 micron SiNpowders with about 28 volume percent V Ni and about 7V Cr powder for about 24 hours in a ball mill. This Example is diagrammatically illustrated in . The second powder consisted of about 0.5 micron TiN powder with about 28 V Ni and about 7 V Cr and it was prepared in the same way as the SiN Ni Cr powders. All of the following steps were identical for both powders. A polyvinyl alcohol binder was added along with water and conventional surfactants to reduce the viscosity of the resulting slurry to between 100 and 300 centipoises. An agglomerated powder was formed by spray drying the slurry. The slurry was spray dried at about 15 000 revolutions per minute using a centrifugal atomizer a gas temperature of about 300 degrees Centigrade and an exit temperature of about 180 degrees Centigrade to create approximately spherical free flowing agglomerated powders. These powders were debound at 200 to 400 degrees centigrade in argon hydrogen and sintered for about 2 hours at about 1250 degrees centigrade to produce a densified free flowing powder wherein the average particle had a diameter of approximately 38 microns. The powders were screened to produce a 230 400 mesh cut. The screened powders were further coated with about 10 wt nickel using the decomposition of nickel carbonyl in a fluidized bed reactor. The nickel coated agglomerated powders were then sprayed onto a grit blasted M300 steel substrate using a Diamond Jet 2600hybrid thermal spray system manufactured by the Sulzer Metco utilizing hydrogen as the fuel and oxygen as the oxidizer gas. The test specimens were as indicated below in Table 1. The resultant coatings had a Vicker s hardness number VHN of about 600 an adhesive strength of greater than about 10 000 pounds per square inch gauge pursuant to ASTM 622 bonded pin adhesion test . The coatings had a density of about 5.6 grams per cubic centimeter for the SiNpowder and 6.4 grams per cubic centimeter for the TiN powder. The coated coupon was bent around a inch diameter mandrel into a U shape without delamination or separation of the coating from the substrate. Bend ductility was measured using an ASM bend ductility coupon. A 1 32inch thick steel plate 6 inches long was thermally sprayed to form a 50 to 70 micron thick coating 2 TO 3 mils . This coupon was bent around a tapered mandrel with a diameter varying from 0.5 to 1 inch in diameter. The bend ductility was estimated from where cracks or striations are first observed. A 1 inch bend is approximately 3.5 percent ductility and a 0.5 inch bend diameter is approximately 7 percent ductility. Table 1 shows the results of multiple tests completed with these two coatings when applied to the spallation test samples. This spallation testing utilized R 1.0 on coated 4340M M300 steel. This is a compression tension spallation test designed to simulate aircraft landing gear stresses. This uncoated steel has a 245 KSI Yield strength. The SiNcoating failed between 180 and 230 KSI but the TiN coating repeatedly failed at about 140 KSI. By comparison WC Co coatings typically spall between about 160 and 200 KSI. The TiN SiN and WC Co coatings are all metallurgically bonded to the substrate. The modulus of elasticity for the SiNcoating was measured at about 20 million pounds per square inch. The modulus of elasticity for the TiN coating was calculated using the Rule of Mixtures to be about 41 million pounds per square inch. The strain to failure of both coatings was estimated from the bend radius at cracking to be between 3 and 4 percent. The SiNcoating is suitable for replacing chrome and WC Co hardfacings in repairing aircraft actuators and landing gear cylinders. Embodiments of heterogeneous composite bodies in the form of coatings with modulus of elasticity at or below about 35 million pounds per square inch prepared according to this Example will exhibit residual stresses generally between approximately 5 000 pounds per square inch gauge psig compressive and approximately 3 000 psig tensile residual stresses and in further embodiments between approximately neutral tensile residual stress and approximately 2 000 psig compressive residual stress. Repetition of this Example with heterogeneous composite bodies in the form of coatings with modulus of elasticity at or below about 35 million pounds per square inch will produce coatings that when having a thickness of about 5 to 7 mils on 4340 or 300M steel will withstand at least approximately 20 cycles at about 200 KSI to about 230 KSI fully reversed R 1 loading. Embodiments of such coatings will provide similar results when applied to other known ultra high strength steels.

The coating in specimen N 17 230 KSI was under residual tension while the coatings in specimens N 14 and N 11 190 180 KSI were under neutral residual stress. The acceptable minimum failure stress is approximately 180 KSI for aircraft landing gear. Anything below that is at risk of failing. A hard landing can generate stress of 160 KSI or more which may result in spallation and coating failure if the failure stress of the coating is below approximately 180 KSI.

Spallation resistance is a combination of modulus of elasticity ductility and adhesive strength. Denser coatings of these materials tend to have high adhesive strengths. TiN and SiNcoatings are not as dense as WC Co coatings. Although the adhesive strengths of TiN and SiNcoatings are both above 10 000 psi they are not as high as those of the very dense WC Co coatings. Because WC Co coatings have a higher modulus of elasticity and a lower ductility than SiNthey have about the same spallation resistance. The TiN coatings have about the same density adhesive strength and ductility but a much higher modulus of elasticity than the SiNcoatings so the TiN coatings fail at a much lower level of stress.

Previously various additives and modifiers had been proposed for various purposes in forming and using different cermet products. Such additives include for example wetting agents grain growth inhibitors melting point adjustment agents and the like. The inclusion of optional modifiers and additives to the cermet particles is indicated at . Modifiers and additives typically serve to promote adhesion or limit grain growth or limit diffusion or reaction or otherwise modify melting temperatures physical mechanical or chemical properties or the like.

Particularly where thermal spraying is employed to form the heterogeneous composite body all of the materials that go into the heterogeneous composite body are contained in the cermet powder. Thus the composition and physical configuration of the heterogeneous composite body are at least primarily determined by the composition and configuration of the cermet particles together with the conditions under which the body is formed.

The cermet binder may include reinforcing inclusions or dissolved materials that alter the physical or chemical properties of the cermet binder and or the heterogeneous composite body. In general the cermet binder is more than 50 volume percent ductile metal.

The metal rich metal matrix precursor from which the metal rich matrix phase in the heterogeneous composite body is formed generally contains more than half and in certain embodiments more than approximately 75 volume percent ductile metal. The metal rich matrix precursor material may include reinforcing inclusions or dissolved materials that after the physical or chemical properties of the metal rich matrix phase of the heterogeneous composite body.

The heterogeneous composite bodies according to the present invention are typically formed in situ on a surface of a substrate. That is the heterogeneous composite body forms in place from a more or less fluid state as compared with being formed somewhere else transferred to and applied to the surface of the substrate. Being formed in situ from an approximately fluid state causes the heterogeneous composite body to bond as tightly as possible to the substrate. Where the bonding is mechanical the formed in situ heterogeneous composite body conforms in minute detail to the supporting surface in a way that is impossible to achieve with a separately formed body. The in situ forming permits the heterogeneous composite body to conform to arcuate or angular surfaces or surfaces where anchoring configurations or roughness has been deliberately provided.

The heterogeneous composite body is conveniently formed on a flat arcuate or angular surface of a substrate. The substrate typically has physical characteristics that differ from those of the heterogeneous composite body. Typically the substrate supports and lends strength to the heterogeneous composite body and the body provides wear resistance and hardness to the substrate. Where the heterogeneous composite body is intended to be separated from the substrate the substrate can be a low melting alloy or a material that can be removed by leaching without harming the heterogeneous composite body or the like. Where metallurgical bonding is required the surface of the substrate can be pre coated with an adhesion promoter. Adhesion promoters include for example aluminum or other elements that form low melting alloys with the metal rich matrix. Where mechanical bonds are to be formed the bonding surface of the substrate can be roughened or porous.

The metal rich matrix phase precursor that is associated with the cermet particle can be for example in the form of a metal coating a more or less loosely adhered deposit of particles particles in loose but intimately mixed association with the ceramic particles or the like. In certain embodiments the ductile metal content in the metal rich matrix phase precursor is higher than the metallic content in the cermet powder.

Metallic deposits can be formed on the ceramic particles and the cermet core particle by mechanical chemical electrochemical vapor deposition agglomeration sintering or other conventional deposit forming procedures as may be desired. Various processing steps carried out for the purposes of improving the integrity or other properties of the cermet particle or the components thereof such as cleaning activating pre coating or the like can be employed if desired. The metal rich matrix phase precursor can be formed on the cermet core particle in one or several sequential operations to deposit the same or different such precursor materials under the same or different conditions.

What have been described are preferred embodiments in which modifications and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the accompanying claims. Many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

