---

title: Headset computer (HSC) with docking station and dual personality
abstract: An example embodiment of the present invention includes a headset computing device (HSC) having a port for docking. When worn on a user's head, the HSC operates in a “headset” mode and behaves as a hands-free computing device. When docked with a docking station, the HSC operates in a “docked” mode and behaves as a conventional PC using a conventional PC monitor as a display output and keyboard and/or mouse input devices. Operating in the headset mode, the HSC can use automatic speech recognition and head-tracking features to recognize verbal and head-motion commands and presents to the user a specific set of hands-fee applications or application features. When in the docked mode, the headset computing device makes available a different set of applications or application features more suited to keyboard and mouse operation. A common data set stored in the headset memory supports both/all sets of applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09378028&OS=09378028&RS=09378028
owner: Kopin Corporation
number: 09378028
owner_city: Westborough
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 653 471 filed on May 31 2012. The entire teachings of the above application are incorporated herein by reference.

Mobile computing devices such as notebook personal computers PC s Smartphones and tablet computing devices are now common tools used for producing analyzing communicating and consuming data in both business and personal life. Consumers continue to embrace a mobile digital lifestyle as the ease of access to digital information increases with high speed wireless communications technologies becoming ubiquitous. Popular uses of mobile computing devices include displaying large amounts of high resolution computer graphics information and video content often wirelessly streamed to the device. While these devices typically include a display screen the preferred visual experience of a high resolution large format display cannot be easily replicated in such mobile devices because the physical size of such devices is limited to promote mobility. Another drawback of the aforementioned device types is that the user interface is hands dependent typically requiring a user to enter data or make selections using a keyboard physical or virtual or touch screen display. As a result consumers are now seeking a hands free high quality portable color display solution to augment or replace their hands dependent mobile devices.

Developers of software applications or apps have attempted to capitalize on the increased popularity of mobile computing devices by developing a single app that can be used across multiple devices and platforms for example Smartphones tablets and PCs. Developing applications that can be used across multiple devices and platforms is economical for developers because it maximizes return of their work product by enabling the app to be sold to as many consumers as possible. While some challenges exist in developing apps across multiple devices and platforms currently all such devices e.g. Smartphones tablets and PCs use hands dependent user interfaces such as touchscreens and or keyboards physical or virtual and or pointing devices.

The present application relates to human computer interfaces. More particularly the present invention relates to a mobile wireless wearable headset computing device employing a hands free user interface which operates using voice commands and tracked head movement and when docked at a docking station the headset computing device operates employing a user interface typically associated with a personal computer PC for example using an external full screen monitor for graphical output and using a keyboard and mouse as input devices. Further the headset computing device makes available a different set of applications or application features more suited to keyboard and mouse operation when in a docked mode than when used in a headset mode as a stand alone headset computer. A common data set stored in the headset memory supports both all sets of applications docked and undocked modes of operation applications of the headset .

Recently developed micro displays can provide large format high resolution color pictures and streaming video in a very small form factor. One application for such displays is integration with a wireless headset computer worn on the head of the user with the display positioned within the field of view of the user similar in format to eyeglasses an audio headset or video eyewear. A wireless computing headset device includes one or more small high resolution micro displays and optics to magnify the image. The micro displays can provide super video graphics array SVGA 800 600 resolution quarter high definition graphics array qHD 860 540 extended graphic arrays XGA 1024 768 or even higher resolutions. A wearable computer can use a qHD micro display to provide a virtual 15 inch laptop sized display. A wireless computing headset contains one or more wireless computing and communication interfaces enabling data and streaming video capability and provides greater convenience and mobility than hands dependent devices.

Examples of a mobile wireless wearable headset computing device are Golden i Headsets available from Kopin Corporation of Taunton Mass. For more information concerning such devices see co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 348 646 entitled Mobile Wireless Display Software Platform for Controlling Other Systems and Devices by Parkinson et al. filed Jan. 5 2009 PCT International Application No. PCT US09 38601 entitled Handheld Wireless Display Devices Having High Resolution Display Suitable For Use as a Mobile Internet Device by Jacobsen et al. filed Mar. 27 2009 and U.S. Application No. 61 638 419 entitled Improved Headset Computer by Jacobsen et al. filed Apr. 25 2012 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

An example method of operating a headset computer includes providing a docking station for a headset computer executing a hands free first version of a subject application on the headset computer and executing a different version of the subject application on the headset computer when the headset computer is operatively coupled to the docking station wherein the hands free version and the different version utilize a common data set stored in a memory of stored in memory of the headset computer.

Another example method of operating a headset computing device includes determining whether the headset computing device is in a headset state or a docked state communicatively coupled to a docking station operating the headset computing device in a headset mode or a docked mode based on the determined state executing an application on the headset computing device enabling and disabling application features according to the headset mode or the docked mode wherein the headset mode enables a hands free user interface and disables a hands dependent user interface and the docked mode enables the hands free dependant user interface and disables the hands free user interface and accessing a common application data set stored in a memory module of the headset computer according to the executed application.

Enabling the hands free user interface can further include using automatic speech recognition ASR and head tracking HT user inputs to interface with the application according to the headset mode. The enabling and disabling application features can further include enabling read only and disabling write user permissions according to the headset mode. The hands free user interface can further include rendering a headset version of a graphical user interface compatible with automatic speech recognition and head tracking inputs through a micro display of the headset computing device according to the headset mode.

The hands dependent user interface according to the docked mode can further include using a keyboard and pointing device user inputs to interface with the application. The enabling and disabling application features can further include enabling write and disabling read only user permissions. The hands dependent user interface can further include rendering a graphical user interface through a monitor communicatively coupled to the docking station.

Example methods of operating the headset computing device can further include executing the application on the headset computing device wherein the application is a word processing application a spreadsheet application a presentation application or an Internet browser application on the headset computing device. Example methods of operating the headset computing device in the docked mode can further include recharging a rechargeable battery of the headset computing device. The rechargeable battery can power operations of the headset computing device in the headset mode.

Further example embodiments include a dual mode headset computing device including a processor communicatively coupled to a micro display and a memory module operating in a headset mode or docked mode a common data set stored in the memory module a docking station including a docking port enabling operational coupling to the headset computing device in a docked state the docked mode being based on a determination of the docked state an application executed by the processor including application features being enabled or disabled according to the headset mode or the docked mode wherein the headset mode enables a hands free user interface and disables a hands dependent user interface and the docked mode enables the hands dependent user interface and disables the hands free user interface and the common data set being accessed according to the application.

Example embodiments of the hands free user interface can further include an automatic speech recognition module and a head tracking module for receiving user input to interface with the application during operation in the headset mode. The application features can further include an enabled read only user permission and a disabled write user permission in the headset mode. The micro display can render a headset version of a graphical user interface in the headset mode.

The hands dependent user interface can further include a keyboard and a pointing device for receiving user inputs to interface with the application. Application features can further include an enabled write user permission and a disabled read only user permission in the docked mode. Further the hands dependent user interface can include a monitor communicatively coupled to the docking station for rendering a graphical user interface compatible with the keyboard and pointing device. The application can be a word processing spreadsheet presentation or an Internet browsing application.

Example embodiments of the headset computing device can further include a rechargeable battery for supplying power to the headset computing device while operating in the headset mode and recharging the battery while in the docked mode.

Example embodiments of the can further include a non transitory computer program product for operating a headset computing device the computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having a computer readable instructions stored thereon which when loaded and executed by a processor cause the processor to determine whether the headset computing devices in a headset state or a docked state communicatively coupled to a docking station operate the headset computing device in a headset mode or a docked mode based on the determined state execute an application on the headset computing device enable and disable application features according to the headset mode or docked mode wherein the headset mode enables a hands free user interface and disables a hands dependent user interface and the docked mode enables the hands dependent user interface and disabled the hands free user interface and access a common application data set stored in a memory module of the headset computer according to the executed application.

An example embodiment according to principles of the present invention includes a headset computing device also referred to herein as a headset computer HSC having a port for docking. When worn on a user s head the HSC can operate in a headset mode and behave as a hands free computing device. When docked with a docking station the HSC can behave in a docked mode and behave as a typical personal computer PC that can use a full screen monitor as a display output and a keyboard and or mouse as input devices.

Operating as a hands free device in the headset mode the HSC can use automatic speech recognition and head tracking features to recognize verbal and head motion commands. In the headset mode the HSC presents to the user a specific set of specified hands fee applications or application features that use a micro display automatic speech recognition and head tracking features.

Operating as a typical PC in the docked mode the HSC can use a traditional hands dependent interface including a graphical user interface GUI based on the user inputting commands using a keyboard and or mouse or other pointing device . In the docked mode the HSC presents to the user a specific set of specified hands dependent applications or application features that use the keyboard and mouse interface. The docking port integrated with the HSC enables the HSC to dock with a docking station. While docked the docking station enables recharging of the HSC battery video output from the HSC to a conventional PC monitor audio output from HSC to standard audio speakers audio input from a microphone keyboard and mouse operation Internet connectivity for example via Ethernet.

The applications whether hands fee applications or hands dependent applications e.g. traditional PC application or application features can share the same application data since the data can be stored in the HSC s memory such as a hard disk. Applications can include PC applications such as Word Excel Internet Explorer etc. all of which are operated in a traditional manner using a mouse and keyboard. While the HSC operates in either mode i.e. headset mode or docked mode the application can assess the same data files so that both modes share the same data files. For example the user can create new documents in docked mode also referred to herein as desktop mode or PC mode which can be viewed thereafter in headset mode also referred to herein as hands free mode . In another example the hands free user can take snapshot photographs via a camera operatively connected preferably integrated to the HSC which can then be viewed and edited in desktop mode. Therefore the HSC can operate as a dual personality device that serves both an Office User and a Mobile Worker . The term Application Feature as used herein can refer to a number of computer software controlled elements including GUI features such as presenting available verbal and head motion commands file operations including create open write read etc. or any combination thereof.

The automatic speech recognition feature of the HSC enabling control of the device using voice commands may be a useful feature. The automatic speech recognition feature can be enabled for example by using a speech recognition product such as those available from Nuance Communications Inc. 1 Wayside Road Burlington Mass. 01803. In addition the head tracking feature can be enabled using for example a six axis or nine axis sensor module tracker available from Hillcrest Laboratories Inc. 15245 Shady Grove Road Suite 400 Rockville Md. 20850.

The operating systems and or device drivers used for the HSC can be modified to take into account whether the HSC is in the docking station or operating away from the docking station e.g. on a user s head . Selection of the operating mode can be made automatically such as by using an input that detects when the HSC is docked.

As will be understood the operation control and visual displays generated by the hands free applications are different from the corresponding elements of a regular desktop PC application. The visual presentation of the information on the micro display and desktop display preferable are different.

In one embodiment the HSC may take the form of the HSC described in a co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 018 999 entitled Wireless Hands Free Computing Headset With Detachable Accessories Controllable By Motion Body Gesture And Or Vocal Commands by Jacobsen et al. filed Feb. 1 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference its entirety.

Example embodiments of the HSC can receive user input through sensing voice commands head movements and hand gestures or any combination thereof as illustrated in . Microphone s operatively coupled or preferably integrated into the HSC near micro display can be used to capture speech commands which are then digitized and processed using automatic speech recognition ASR techniques. Gyroscopes accelerometers and other micro electromechanical system sensors can be integrated into the HSC and used to track the user s head movement to provide user input commands. Cameras such as camera or other motion tracking sensors can be used to monitor a user s hand gestures for user input commands. Such a user interface overcomes the hands dependant formats of other mobile devices.

A head worn frame and articulated supports are generally configured so that a user can wear the headset computer device on the user s head. Housings are generally low profile units which house the electronics such as the microprocessor memory or other storage device low power wireless communications device s along with other associated circuitry. Speakers provide audio output to the user so that the user can hear information such as the audio portion of a multimedia presentation or audio prompt alert or feedback signaling recognition of a user command.

A micro display subassembly is used to render visual information such as images and video to the user. The micro display is coupled to the arm . The arm generally provides physical support such that the micro display subassembly is able to be positioned within the user s field of view preferably in front of the eye of the user or within its peripheral vision preferably slightly below or above the eye. The arm also provides the electrical or optical connections between the micro display subassembly and the control circuitry housed within housing unit .

According to aspects that will be explained in more detail below the HSC with micro display can enable an end user to select a field of view within a much larger area defined by a virtual display . The user can typically control the position extent e.g. X Y or 3D range and or magnification of the field of view .

While the example embodiments of an HSC shown in are monocular micro displays presenting a single fixed display element supported within the field of view in front of the face of the user with a cantilevered boom it should be understood that other mechanical configurations for the auxilliary display device HSC are possible.

A digital processor is operatively coupled to micro display memory module battery audio speakers and user input devices including microphone microphones and motion sensors . The processor uses automatic speech recognition module and head tracking module to convert signals received from the hands free user interface sensors into control commands for executing application . The application can access a data set stored in a memory module . While operating in a headset mode processor outputs user interface to micro display and audio speakers . A battery powers the HSC while in the headset mode. It should be recognized by those of skill in the art that memory while preferably located in headset computing device does not have to be located in HSC but merely accessible to HSC e.g. a cloud based memory module .

A docking station unit also referred to herein as a docking station includes docking port . The docking port communicatively couples to HSC enabling a communications and power link between the docking station and the HSC . The docking station is further communicatively coupled to a display monitor for example a conventional computer monitor audio speakers keyboard pointing device for example a mouse and optionally a microphone . The display monitor displays graphical user information to a user when the headset is operating in docked mode. Further while in docked mode the keyboard and pointing device are used to capture user input at docking station and communicate such input to processor so that application can be controlled. The microphone can optionally be used as a speech input for the headset computing device while in docking station mode and can be processed by automatic speech recognition module in a manner similar to the speech control processes in the headset mode.

The My Life display screens of the HSC operating in the headset mode can provide the user visual information such as time date and calendar scheduling information as well as notifications and the available voice commands associated with such features. For example the voice command open item can open a voicemail and or visual voicemail message.

The My Social display screens of the HSC operating in the headset mode can provide the user with the latest news social network updates for example Tweets and other need to know information. Tweet is a registered trademark of Twitter Inc. of 1355 Market Street Suite 900 San Francisco Calif. 94103. 

A docked mode software stack is used during operation of the HSC in a docked mode and includes a rechargeable battery driver module a touch device driver which can control input from a user through a touch device such as a touch screen or other capacitive other input touch input device such as a trackpad pointing device driver such as a optical mouse keyboard driver and docked mode display driver which displays the graphical user interface typically through a monitor .

Further example embodiments of the present invention may be configured using a computer program product for example controls may be programmed in software for implementing example embodiments of the present invention. Further example embodiments of the present invention may include a non transitory computer readable medium containing instruction that may be executed by a processor and when executed cause the processor to complete methods described herein. It should be understood that elements of the block and flow diagrams described herein may be implemented in software hardware firmware or other similar implementation determined in the future. In addition the elements of the block and flow diagrams described herein may be combined or divided in any manner in software hardware or firmware. If implemented in software the software may be written in any language that can support the example embodiments disclosed herein. The software may be stored in any form of computer readable medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM compact disk read only memory CD ROM and so forth. In operation a general purpose or application specific processor loads and executes software in a manner well understood in the art. It should be understood further that the block and flow diagrams may include more or fewer elements be arranged or oriented differently or be represented differently. It should be understood that implementation may dictate the block flow and or network diagrams and the number of block and flow diagrams illustrating the execution of embodiments of the invention.

The teachings of all patents published applications and references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to example embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

