---

title: Methods and devices for applying constraints to data object
abstract: In one example embodiment, a processor-implemented method is described. The processor implemented method includes: associating a first notebook with one or more predetermined constraints; receiving input associating a data object with a notebook; and when the notebook associated with the data object is the first notebook, applying the one or more predetermined constraints associated with the first notebook to the data object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223825&OS=09223825&RS=09223825
owner: BLACKBERRY LIMITED
number: 09223825
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130111
---
The present application relates to data objects and more particularly to methods and electronic devices for applying constraints to data objects.

A personal information manager PIM is an application that functions as an organizer of information for a user. Personal information managers often organize addresses personal notes and journal entries tasks reminders archived email messages etc.

Personal information managers often allow a user to create tasks. Tasks may for example be to do items. That is a task may be a record of an action that a user wishes to perform or complete. Tasks may be manually input into the personal information manager by a user. For example a user may use a keyboard to manually compose the task. Some personal information managers may allow the task to be associated with a date and a reminder of the task to be generated based on the date. Tasks may be presented in a list which may be referred to as a to do list which may include other tasks.

In one example embodiment a processor implemented method is described. The processor implemented method includes associating a first notebook with one or more predetermined constraints receiving input associating a data object with a notebook and when the notebook associated with the data object is the first notebook applying the one or more predetermined constraints associated with the first notebook to the data object.

In another example embodiment an electronic device is described. The electronic device includes a processor and a memory coupled with the processor. The memory contains processor executable instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to associate a first notebook with one or more predetermined constraints receive input associating a data object with a notebook and when the notebook associated with the data object is the first notebook apply the one or more predetermined constraints associated with the first notebook to the data object.

In yet another example embodiment a computer readable storage medium is described. The computer reading storage medium includes computer executable instructions for associating a first notebook with one or more predetermined constraints receiving input associating a data object with a notebook and when the notebook associated with the data object is the first notebook applying the one or more predetermined constraints associated with the first notebook to the data object.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

In order to facilitate an understanding of one possible environment in which example embodiments described herein can operate reference is first made to which shows in block diagram form a communication system in which example embodiments of the present disclosure can be applied. The communication system includes a number of electronic devices which may be connected to the remainder of the system in any of several different ways. Accordingly several instances of electronic devices are depicted in employing different example ways of connecting to system . Electronic devices are connected to a wireless network which may include one or more of a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN or other suitable network arrangements. In some example embodiments the electronic devices are configured to communicate over both the WWAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks. In some example embodiments the wireless network may include multiple WWANs and WLANs .

The WWAN may be implemented as any suitable wireless access network technology. By way of example but not limitation the WWAN may be implemented as a wireless network that includes a number of transceiver base stations one of which is shown in where each of the base stations provides wireless Radio Frequency RF coverage to a corresponding area or cell. The WWAN is typically operated by a mobile network service provider that provides subscription packages to users of the electronic devices . In some example embodiments the WWAN conforms to one or more of the following wireless network types Mobitex Radio Network DataTAC GSM Global System for Mobile Communication GPRS General Packet Radio System TDMA Time Division Multiple Access CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDPD Cellular Digital Packet Data iDEN integrated Digital Enhanced Network EvDO Evolution Data Optimized CDMA2000 EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems HSPDA High Speed Downlink Packet Access IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or various other networks. Although WWAN is described as a Wide Area network that term is intended herein also to incorporate wireless Metropolitan Area Networks WMAN and other similar technologies for providing coordinated service wirelessly over an area larger than that covered by typical WLANs.

The WWAN may further include a wireless network gateway which connects the electronic devices to transport facilities and through the transport facilities to a wireless connector system . Transport facilities may include one or more private networks or lines the public Internet a virtual private network or any other suitable network. The wireless connector system may be operated for example by an organization or enterprise such as a corporation university or governmental department which allows access to a network such as an internal or enterprise network and its resources or the wireless connector system may be operated by a mobile network provider. In some example embodiments the network may be realised using the Internet rather than an internal or enterprise network.

The wireless network gateway provides an interface between the wireless connector system and the WWAN which facilitates communication between the electronic devices and other devices not shown connected directly or indirectly to the WWAN . Accordingly communications sent via the electronic devices are transported via the WWAN and the wireless network gateway through transport facilities to the wireless connector system . Communications sent from the wireless connector system are received by the wireless network gateway and transported via the WWAN to the electronic devices .

The WLAN includes a wireless network which in some example embodiments conforms to IEEE 802.11x standards sometimes referred to as Wi Fi such as for example the IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and or 802.11g standard. Other communication protocols may be used for the WLAN in other example embodiments such as for example IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or IEEE 802.20 also referred to as Mobile Wireless Broadband Access . The WLAN includes one or more wireless RF Access Points AP one of which is shown in that collectively provide a WLAN coverage area.

The WLAN may be a personal network of the user an enterprise network or a hotspot offered by an Internet service provider ISP a mobile network provider or a property owner in a public or semi public area for example. The access points are connected to an access point AP interface which may connect to the wireless connector system directly for example if the access point is part of an enterprise WLAN in which the wireless connector system resides or indirectly via the transport facilities if the access point is a personal Wi Fi network or Wi Fi hotspot in which case a mechanism for securely connecting to the wireless connector system such as a virtual private network VPN may be used . The AP interface provides translation and routing services between the access points and the wireless connector system to facilitate communication directly or indirectly with the wireless connector system .

The wireless connector system may be implemented as one or more servers and is typically located behind a firewall . The wireless connector system manages communications including email communications to and from a set of managed electronic devices . The wireless connector system also provides administrative control and management capabilities over users and electronic devices which may connect to the wireless connector system .

The wireless connector system allows the electronic devices to access the network and connected resources and services such as a sync server for example a Microsoft Exchange IBM Lotus Domino or Novell GroupWise server and application servers for implementing server based applications such as instant messaging IM applications to electronic devices .

The sync server may provide back end data syncing services to the electronic device . For example the sync server may sync data objects such as action items i.e. tasks email messages and or memos on the electronic device with one or more other electronic devices associated with a common user account and or with a remote server associated with the same account e.g. data objects stored on the electronic device may be sent through the sync server to other electronic devices associated with the same user account or may be sent to a remote server associated with the same account . That is the sync server may allow an electronic device to sync a data object stored on the electronic device using the sync server. Similarly the sync server may sync data objects stored in another storage location associated with the same user account such as another electronic device or remote server to the electronic device . That is the sync server may transmit data objects stored in other storage locations to the electronic device .

In at least some embodiments the sync server may have one or more predetermined constraints associated therewith. More particularly the sync server may have data object constraints. Data object constraints may specify formatting rules that are applied to one or more types of data objects. That is the data object constraints may specify constraints that are related to a data object type associated with the data object.

For example the data object constraints may in some embodiments specify that a data object that is classified as a memo i.e. a data object having a memo data object type will not include a completion indicator and or progress indicator. Similarly in some embodiments the data object constraints may specify that a data object that is classified as an action item which may also be referred to as a task must have a completion indicator and or progress indicator associated therewith.

A completion indicator may be a flag that may be set to complete or incomplete to indicate whether the action associated with an action item has been completed. In some embodiments the completion indicator may have two possible values a first value represents a complete state and a second value represents an incomplete state. A progress indicator is a type of completion indicator that may allow greater precision in describing a status of an action item. For example a progress indicator may specify the degree to which the action has been completed e.g. it may be specified as a percentage such as 50 . In some embodiments the progress indicator may allow a text based status to be set to indicate the level of completion of the action associated with an action item. By way of example the progress indicator may be set to not started in progress waiting for feedback or done. 

Since action items by their nature have an action associated therewith the sync server may require that data objects which purport to be an action item have a completion indicator associated with such data objects. Similarly since an action is generally not required in relation to a memo the sync server may require that data objects that purport to be memos do not have a completion indicator associated therewith.

Similarly in some embodiments the sync server may require that data objects which purport to be an action item have a due date property associated therewith. The due date property may be reserved for storing a due data associated with action items. That is the due date property may be configured for storing timing information for completing the action represented by the action item.

In at least some embodiments the sync server may be configured to only sync data objects when such data objects satisfy the data object constraints. For example in at least some embodiments when a data object does not satisfy the constraints for the data object type of that data object it may be considered a sync unfriendly data object and may fail to sync and or generate an error when a sync operation is attempted.

The wireless connector system typically provides a secure exchange of data e.g. email messages personal information manager PIM data and IM data with the electronic devices . In some example embodiments communications between the wireless connector system and the electronic devices are encrypted. In some example embodiments communications are encrypted using a symmetric encryption key implemented using Advanced Encryption Standard AES or Triple Data Encryption Standard Triple DES encryption. Private encryption keys are generated in a secure two way authenticated environment and are used for both encryption and decryption of data. In some example embodiments the private encryption key is stored only in the user s mailbox on the sync server and on the electronic device and can typically be regenerated by the user on electronic devices . Data sent to the electronic devices is encrypted by the wireless connector system using the private encryption key retrieved from the user s mailbox. The encrypted data when received on the electronic devices is decrypted using the private encryption key stored in memory. Similarly data sent to the wireless connector system from the electronic devices is encrypted using the private encryption key stored in the memory of the electronic device . The encrypted data when received on the wireless connector system is decrypted using the private encryption key retrieved from the user s mailbox.

The wireless network gateway is adapted to send data packets received from the electronic device over the WWAN to the wireless connector system . The wireless connector system then sends the data packets to the appropriate connection point such as the sync server or application servers . Conversely the wireless connector system sends data packets received for example from the sync server or application servers to the wireless network gateway which then transmit the data packets to the destination electronic device . The AP interfaces of the WLAN provide similar sending functions between the electronic device the wireless connector system and network connection point such as the sync server and application server .

The network may include a private local area network metropolitan area network wide area network the public Internet or combinations thereof and may include virtual networks constructed using any of these alone or in combination.

An electronic device may alternatively connect to the wireless connector system using a computer such as desktop or notebook computer via the network . A link may be provided for exchanging information between the electronic device and computer connected to the wireless connector system . The link may include one or both of a physical interface and short range wireless communication interface. The physical interface may include one or combinations of an Ethernet connection Universal Serial Bus USB connection Firewire also known as an IEEE 1394 interface connection or other serial data connection via respective ports or interfaces of the electronic device and computer . The short range wireless communication interface may be a personal area network PAN interface. A personal area network is a wireless point to point connection meaning no physical cables are required to connect the two end points. The short range wireless communication interface may include one or a combination of an infrared IR connection such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA connection a short range radio frequency RF connection such as one specified by IEEE 802.15.1 or the Bluetooth special interest group or IEEE 802.15.3a also referred to as UltraWideband UWB or other PAN connection.

It will be appreciated that the above described communication system is provided for the purpose of illustration only and that the above described communication system includes one possible communication network configuration of a multitude of possible configurations for use with the electronic devices . The teachings of the present disclosure may be employed in connection with other types of networks and associated devices that are effective in implementing or facilitating wireless communication. Suitable variations of the communication system will be understood to a person of skill in the art and are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an example electronic device . In the illustrated example embodiment the electronic device is a communication device such as a mobile communication device. In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smart phone a tablet computer such as a slate computer an electronic book reader a wearable computer such as a watch a PDA personal digital assistant or a computer system.

A smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capabilities than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example a smartphone may have an ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

A tablet computer which may also be referred to as a tablet is an electronic device which is generally larger than a mobile phone such as a smartphone or personal digital assistant. Many mobile phones or personal digital assistants are designed to be pocket sized. That is mobile phones or personal digital assistants are generally small enough to be carried by a person easily often in a shirt or pant pocket while tablet computers are larger and may not fit within pant pockets. For example many tablet computers have a height which is seven inches or more. In some example embodiments the tablet computer may be a slate computer. A slate computer is a tablet computer which does not include a dedicated keyboard. A slate computer may allow for text input through the use of a virtual keyboard or an external keyboard which connects to the slate computer via a wired or wireless connection.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device is a handheld electronic device. A handheld electronic device is an electronic device which is sufficiently small to be held in the hands of a user. The term handheld electronic device includes smartphones and may also include tablet computers. In at least some embodiments the handheld electronic device may be sufficiently small to be held in a single hand of a user. For example the handheld electronic device may be a palm sized device which is sized to be held in the palm of a user s hand. From the description which follows it will be appreciated that the techniques and methods described herein may be used in electronic devices having limited display capabilities. For example the methods of storing classifying and accessing content described herein may be used with the relatively small displays provided by smartphones.

The electronic device includes a housing not shown which houses components of the electronic device . The internal components of the electronic device are constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons one or more microphones and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display etc. flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

One or more of the input interfaces may be configured for receiving user input to allow a user to interact with the electronic device . Such input interfaces may for example allow a user to interact with a graphical user interface provided on the electronic device . Instructions commands or other forms of input may be received by the electronic device via the input interfaces. For example the input interfaces may allow a user to interact with one or more interface elements displayed on a graphical user interface of the display .

Such input interfaces may take a variety of forms. For example any one or combination of the following input interfaces may be included on the electronic device and used for receiving user input a touchscreen display a control button a trackball or trackpad a keyboard a camera which may be used for example to detect gesture based input an orientation or acceleration sensor such as an accelerometer which may be used for example to detect gesture based input performed by moving the electronic device a microphone which may be used for example to detect voice based commands . It will be appreciated that the foregoing list of input interfaces is not exhaustive and that other input interfaces may be used instead of or in addition to any of the interfaces described above.

As noted previously the electronic device may include a touch sensitive display which may be referred to as a touchscreen or a touchscreen display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the touchscreen display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

In some embodiments the electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network.

In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device also includes a memory module which may be flash memory and a memory module interface . The memory module may be removable from the electronic device . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the electronic device .

The electronic device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network .

The data may include one or more data objects . The data objects may be of a variety of data object types . These data object types may include action items i.e. tasks memos which may also be referred to as notes email messages calendar entries and or contact records. The data object types may include other types of data objects in other embodiments.

An action item which may also be referred to as a task is a record of an action that a user wishes to perform. That is the action item represents something that the user intends to act upon and to complete. An action item may represent a concrete defined action. For example action item may be a reminder to review email or follow up on something. Accordingly an action item may be a record of an action that a user wishes to be reminded of. That is the action item may be a record of a future action i.e. an action that a user intends to perform in the future and may serve as a record for a user to remind the user that an action is required.

In contrast a memo which may also be referred to as a note is not a record of an action that is to be completed. The memo may for example be a reference such as a reference document. No specific action may be planned for the memo and therefore a user does not wish to be reminded of the memo. The memo is simply stored so that a user may access the memo at an unspecified later date or time.

Data objects may be stored in a notebook . A notebook is a virtual container or group and may also in some embodiments be referred to as a container or a group or a folder. A notebook groups data objects of a common data object type . That is each notebook may be associated with a data object type . In at least some embodiments each notebook is associated with a single data object type 

By way of example in the embodiment of the memory includes two notebooks a first notebook and a second notebook . The first notebook is associated with a first data object type and the second notebook is associated with a second data object type which may be different from the first data object type . Each notebook contains data objects that have been formatted according to the data object type associated with that notebook . For example the first notebook stores data objects that comply with one or more predetermined constraints associated with the first data object type and the second notebook stores data objects that comply with one or more predetermined constraints associated with the second data object type . Data objects stored in a notebook may therefore comply with the predetermined constraints for that notebook.

In some embodiments the first data object type and or the second data object type may be an action item data object type. That is the first notebook and or the second notebook may be configured for storing action items. In some embodiments the first data object type and or the second data object type may be a memo data object type. That is the first notebook and or the second notebook may be configured for storing memos.

Data objects stored in a notebook may be required to comply with one or more predetermined constraints that are effectively associated with that notebook. Accordingly memory of the electronic device may also store one or more predetermined constraints . The predetermined constraints may specify rules constraints and or parameters associated with different data object types . That is the predetermined constraints may associate a data object type with one or more rules constraints and or parameters. The rules constraints or parameters defined by the predetermined constraints may vary for different data object type . For example memos may have a different constraint or set of constraints than action items.

The predetermined constraints are in at least some embodiments constraints that are required by a sync server . That is the predetermined constraints may correspond to the data object constraints for the sync server described above with reference to . As will be explained in greater detail below in at least some embodiments the predetermined constraints may be used to ensure that a data object complies with data object constraints imposed by the sync server . That is in at least some embodiments the predetermined constraints may ensure that data objects are sync friendly. In other embodiments the predetermined constraints may enforce at least some constraints that are not imposed by the sync server .

For example the predetermined constraints may in some embodiments specify that a data object that is classified as a memo i.e. a data object that is stored in a notebook associated with a memo data object type will not include a completion indicator and or progress indicator. Similarly in some embodiments the predetermined constraints may specify that a data object that is classified as an action item which may also be referred to as a task must have a completion indicator and or progress indicator associated therewith.

Similarly in some embodiments the predetermined constraints may require that data objects stored in a notebook having an action item data type have a due date property associate therewith. The due date property may be reserved for storing a due data associated with action items. That is the due date property may be configured for storing timing information for completing the action represented by the action item.

As will be explained in greater detail below when a data object is associated with a notebook associated with a data object type the predetermined constraints may be applied to that data object based on the data object type for the notebook. That is each notebook may be configured for use with a specific data object type. When a data object is added to a notebook it may inherit the properties of the data object type associated with that notebook. That is the predetermined constraints associated with the data object type for that notebook are applied to the data object.

In at least some embodiments the data may also include one or more generic data objects . A generic data object is a data object that is not associated with a specific data object type . In at least some embodiments the generic data object may become either a data object of the first data object type or a data object of the second data object type or a data object of another data object type. For example the generic data object may be assigned to one of the notebooks e.g. user input may be received assigning the generic data object to a notebook and in response the electronic device may apply the predetermined constraints associated with the data object type for that notebook to the generic data object. In at least some embodiments this will allow the data object to be synced using the sync server .

In at least some embodiments data objects may share a common format irrespective of the data object type that is associated with such data objects. For example the data objects may have a common format irrespective of their type. For example all data objects may be formatted as a generic data object and may be capable of acting as any data object type associated with a hybrid application i.e. any supported data object type . The generic data object may include fields and or parameters that may be used with all data object types e.g. it may allow for input of fields that are associated with action item such as a completion indicator . When the generic data object is assigned to a notebook the predetermined constraints associated with the data object type for that notebook are enforced upon that data object. In at least some embodiments not shown one or more notebooks may be configured for storing generic data objects . For example a notebook may not have a data object type associated therewith. In such notebooks no predetermined constraints are associated with the data object type and the data object is permitted to exist in the notebook without having predetermined constraints applied to the data object. For example the data object in the notebook that does not have a data object type associated therewith may exist without having to conform to predetermined constraints associated with a data object type.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device may be configured to generate reminders for data objects that are action items based on timing information associated with such action items the timing information may for example specific a time that a user wishes to be reminded of the action item . That is the electronic device may generate reminders for data objects that are stored in a notebook having an action item data object type. The reminder generated by the electronic device based on the timing information may for example be a sensory based reminder such as an audible reminder provided on the speaker a visual reminder provided on the display or a vibratory reminder provided by a vibrator associated with the electronic device .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port may enable a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by for example providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . This download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic for example through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network may automatically be routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network may automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device may include or be connectable to a power source. In the embodiment illustrated the power source is a battery such as a rechargeable battery that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery may provide electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface may provide a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface may be coupled to a regulator not shown which may provide power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

In some embodiments a short range communication subsystem may provide for communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A pre determined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

In some example embodiments the electronic device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or a web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the touchscreen display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data objects such as email messages memos action items or generic data objects for example using the input interfaces such as the touchscreen display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and may operate for example as a typical cellular telephone. The overall operation may be similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals may be output to the speaker and signals for transmission may be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions may be provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the touchscreen display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and software applications such as a hybrid application and or a third party application .

In at least some embodiments the software applications include a hybrid application . The hybrid application is configured to allow a generic data object to be created. That is the hybrid application provides a user interface for allowing a generic data object to be created. The user interface may for example include a composition interface that allows text images and or videos to be added into a document thereby creating a generic data object. The generic data object may then be assigned to one or more of the notebooks to become a data object in that notebook. When the generic data object is assigned to a notebook it ceases to be a generic data object . The electronic device automatically applies predetermined constraints associated with the data object type for that notebook to the generic data object thereby creating a data object conforming to the constraints for the data object type.

The hybrid application is referred to herein as a hybrid application since it is configured to manage data objects of more than one data object type. For example the hybrid application may manage memos and may also manage action items.

Accordingly the hybrid application may be configured to provide management functions for managing notebooks and or data objects. For example the hybrid application may be configured to accept input for creation of new notebooks which may cause a prompt to be generated requesting a data object type to be assigned to that notebook modifying the data object type associated with a notebook e.g. to remove the current data object type assigned to the notebook and replace it with another data object type which may cause the electronic device to automatically apply predetermined constraints associated with a newly associated data object type to existing data objects in that notebook to move one or more data objects from one of the notebooks to another of the notebooks which may cause the electronic device to move the data object to the other notebook and to automatically apply the predetermined constraints associated with the data object type of the selected notebook to the data object and or to copy one or more data objects from one of the notebooks to another of the notebooks which may cause the electronic device to copy the data object to the other notebook and to automatically apply the predetermined constraints associated with the data object type of the selected notebook to the data object . The hybrid application may provide other management functions in addition to those described above.

Accordingly in at least some embodiments the hybrid application may be configured to enforce the predetermined constraints. The hybrid application may allow data objects such as generic data objects to be assigned to a notebook and when a data object is assigned to a notebook the hybrid application may apply predetermined constraints associated with that notebook to the data object e.g. it may apply predetermined constraints corresponding to the data object type for the notebook .

While the predetermined constraints are illustrated using a block that is separated from the hybrid application in in some embodiments the predetermined constraints may be included in the hybrid application itself. For example the hybrid application may be programmed with the predetermined constraints .

In at least some embodiments the electronic device may include an application programming interface API that permits other applications such as third party applications to access at least some of the features provided by the hybrid application . The API allows third party developers to integrate features provided by the hybrid application into other applications .

The API is in at least some embodiments configured to receive instructions from other applications to allow those other applications to access function or features provided by the hybrid application . For example in at least some embodiments the API may allow other applications such as third party applications to assign a data object to a notebook . For example a data object may be created through a third party application. Then the third party application may assign the data object to a notebook using the API. In response the hybrid application may automatically apply the predetermined constraints associated with that notebook e.g. the predetermined constraints associated with the data object type for that notebook to the data object.

The other applications that may access some of the features of the hybrid application through the API may include a range of applications that are configured to create or access content. For example the other applications that may access the API e.g. in order to assign a data object created or accessed through the application to a specified notebook may include for example third party navigation applications Internet browser applications address book applications messaging applications calendar applications notepad applications word processor applications and or media player applications. Each of the other applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display . It will be appreciated that other application apart from those specifically listed above may access functions of the hybrid application through the API .

Accordingly input associating a data object with a notebook may be received at the API from a third party application . In some embodiments the hybrid application may ensure that data objects that are assigned to a notebook using a third party application conform to the predetermined constraints associated with that notebook e.g. the predetermined constraints associated with the data object type for that notebook . It may do so by automatically applying such predetermined constraints to the data object based on the notebook. That is it may identify the predetermined constraint or set of constraints associated with the notebook and may apply those to a data object. In some embodiments if the third party application adds a data object to a notebook having an action item data object type e.g. to a notebook that is configured for storing action items then the hybrid application may add a completion indicator and or a due date property to the data object if it does not already include a completion indicator and or a due date property. In some embodiments if the third party application adds a data object to a notebook having a memo data object type e.g. if it add the data object to a notebook that is configured for storing memos then the hybrid application may remove a completion indicator and or due date property from the data object.

By ensuring that data objects that are added to a notebook by third party applications comply with the predetermined constraints for that notebook the hybrid application may in at least some embodiments ensure that the data objects are able to sync using the sync server . That is the hybrid application effectively ensures that the data objects correspond to the data object constraints for the sync server .

In at least some embodiments the API may be configured to inform third party applications of the predetermined constraints associated with one or more notebooks. This may allow the third party application to generate a graphical user interface in accordance with the predetermined constraints. For example interface elements may be generated that permit features or properties associated with a specific data object type to be input. For example the API may in some embodiments inform the third party application of the predetermined constraints associated with an action item data type. For example it may specify that a data object that is an action item is to include a due date property and or a completion indicator. Then if a data object is active in the third party application and that data object has been or is going to be assigned to a notebook that is configured for storing action items e.g. if the notebook has an action item data object type then the third party application may automatically generate a display screen including one or more interface elements for setting properties that may be unique to action items for example for setting a due date property and or a completion indicator.

Similarly the API may inform the third party application of the predetermined constraints associated with a memo data type. For example it may specify that a data object that is a memo is not to include a due date property and or a completion indicator. Then if a data object is active in the third party application and that data object has been or is going to be assigned to a notebook that is configured for storing memos e.g. if the notebook has a memo data object type then the third party application may automatically generate a display screen that does not include the interface elements for setting a due date property and or a completion indicator.

While the API is illustrated as being included within the hybrid application in some embodiments the API and the hybrid application may be separate from one another.

In at least some example embodiments the operating system may perform some or all of the functions of the hybrid application and or the API . In other example embodiments the functions or a portion of the functions of the hybrid application may be performed by one or more other applications. Further while the hybrid application has been illustrated as a single block the hybrid application may include a plurality of software modules. In at least some example embodiments these software modules may be divided among multiple applications. For example in at least some embodiments a different software application or module may be used for classifying content items than is used for accessing such content items. For example a first software application or module may be configured to perform one of the methods described below and a second software application or module may be configured to perform another one of the methods described below.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The following discussion will refer to example methods of applying a constraint to a data object based on a notebook to which that data object is assigned. The methods may in at least some embodiments be performed by the hybrid application . More particularly the hybrid application and or another application stored in memory may contain processor executable instructions which when executed cause the processor of the electronic device to perform one or more of the methods described below.

At the electronic device associates a first notebook with one or more predetermined constraints . As noted in the discussion of above the first notebook may in some embodiments be indirectly associated with one or more predetermined constraints . For example the first notebook may be associated with a data object type . The data object type defines the types of data objects which the notebook will be configured to store. Predetermined constraints may be associated with the data object type effectively creating an association between the first notebook and one or more predetermined constraints .

Such indirect associations may allow multiple notebooks to be created having the same data object types. For example when a new notebook is created it may be assigned e.g. via user input to a data object type. Based on the data object type the notebook may effectively inherit the predetermined constraints.

As noted in the discussion of in at least some embodiments the predetermined constraints may be associated with a sync server . That is the predetermined constraints may correspond to data object constraints that are required by a sync server in order to effectively sync data objects.

The electronic device may associate the first notebook with the one or more predetermined constraints when the first notebook is created. In at least some embodiments when a notebook is created a user may be prompted for input assigning the notebook to a data object type. For example a user may select whether the notebook is an action item notebook e.g. configured for storing action items or a memo notebook e.g. configured for storing memos or a notebook of another type.

The electronic device may at associate a second notebook with one or more predetermined constraints . The second notebook may be indirectly associated with the one or more predetermined constraints . For example the second notebook may be associated with a data object type which is associated with one or more predetermined constraints . In at least some embodiments the first notebook and the second notebook are associated with different data object types . In at least some such embodiments at least one of the predetermined constraints associated with the second notebook is different than at least one of the predetermined constraints associated with the first notebook . That is a different rule or set of rules applies to the different notebooks.

While illustrates an embodiment in which there are two notebooks in other embodiments there may be a greater number of notebooks. These notebooks may in at least some embodiments each be associated with a data object type and or one or more predetermined constraints.

At input is received associating a data object with a notebook. The data object is in at least some embodiments a generic data object . A generic data object is a data object that is not associated with a specific data object type . In at least some embodiments the generic data object may be created by the hybrid application . For example the hybrid application may provide a user interface that allows the generic data object to be created. For example the hybrid application may include a composition interface that allows text images and or videos to be added into a document that has not yet been assigned a data object type thereby creating a generic data object. Input may be received through this interface to create a generic data object. The hybrid application may present a user with a selectable option to associate the generic data object with one of the notebooks. The input received at associating the data object with a notebook may for example be received via such a selectable option.

As will be described in greater detail below with reference to in at least some embodiments the input received at may be received via an API .

After the data object is assigned to a notebook the electronic device may apply at one or more predetermined constraints to the data object based on the specific notebook to which that data object was assigned. More particularly the one or more predetermined constraints associated with that notebook may be applied to the data object.

In some embodiments at and the electronic device identifies the notebook that the data object was associated with. When the notebook associated with the data object is the first notebook the electronic device applies one or more predetermined constraints associated with the first notebook to the data object at . When the notebook associated with the data object is the second notebook the electronic device applies one or more predetermined constraints associated with the second notebook to the data object at . Thus predetermined constraints are applied based on the specific notebook that a data object is associated with.

For example in some embodiments a predetermined constraint associated with a memo data object type specifies that data objects stored in a notebook having a memo data object type are not permitted to include a due date property. In at least some such embodiments if the notebook to which the data object is assigned is configured for storing memos e.g. if the data object type indicates that it is configured to store memos then the electronic device may determine if the data object includes a due date property and when the data object includes a due date property may remove the due date property from the data object.

Similarly in some embodiments a predetermined constraint associated with a memo data object type specifies that data objects stored in a notebook having a memo data object type are not permitted to include a completion indicator. In at least some such embodiments if the notebook to which the data object is assigned is configured for storing memos e.g. if the data object type indicates that it is configured to store memos then the electronic device may determine if the data object includes a completion indicator and when the data object includes a completion indicator may remove the completion indicator from the data object.

Similarly in some embodiments a predetermined constraint associated with an action item data object type specifies that data objects stored in a notebook having an action item data object type are required to include a completion indicator. In at least some such embodiments if the notebook to which the data object is assigned is configured for storing action items e.g. if the data object type indicates that it is configured to store action items then the electronic device may determine if the data object includes a completion indicator and when the data object does not include a completion indicator may add a completion indicator to the data object.

Similarly in some embodiments a predetermined constraint associated with an action item data object type specifies that data objects stored in a notebook having an action item data object type are required to include a due date property. In at least some such embodiments if the notebook to which the data object is assigned is configured for storing action items e.g. if the data object type indicates that it is configured to store action items then the electronic device may determine if the data object includes a due date property and when the data object does not include a due date property may add a due date property to the data object.

In at least some embodiments when the hybrid application adds a field or property required by the predetermined constraints to a data object and that field or property is configurable i.e. when it is a field or property whose value or contents may be set or adjusted the electronic device may set the field or property to a predetermined default state and or may prompt a user to set the field or property. For example after adding a completion indicator and or a due date property to a data object the electronic device may set the completion indicator and or due date property to a predetermined default state. For example the completion indicator may be set to a not completed state which indicates that the action associated with the action item has not yet been completed. In some embodiments after adding a completion indicator and or a due date property to a data object the electronic device may generate a prompt requesting user to provide input setting the state of a completion indicator and or due date property.

In at least some embodiments after the hybrid application has determined that the data object in the notebook complies with the predetermined constraints for that notebook at the electronic device may sync the data object using the sync server . More particularly the electronic device may sync the data object using the sync server by transmitting data such as the data object to the sync server. For example such data may be transmitted over a communication subsystem associated with the electronic device such as the wireless communication subsystem . That is the data object may be synced by communicating with the sync server using the communication subsystem.

In at least some embodiments the hybrid application may include an API which may help ensure that other applications such as third party applications comply with the predetermined constraints .

Referring now to an example of one such method is illustrated. The method includes many features that are discussed above with reference to . Common reference numerals are used to identify such features and the discussion of these features will not be repeated at length. In the embodiment of an application programming interface is provided on the electronic device . The API is described above in the discussion of .

At and notebooks are associated with predetermined constraints. and are described in greater detail above with reference to .

At the application programming interface informs one or more other applications such as a third party application of one or more predetermined constraints associated with one or more notebooks. For example the API may inform the third party application of the constraints associated with a specific notebook. This may occur for example in response to a query from an application for the predetermined constraints. That is another application such as a third party application may request the constraints from the API.

In at least some embodiments at in response to receiving the information at the other application e.g. the third party application may generate a graphical user interface in accordance with the predetermined constraints received via the API. is illustrated with broken lines to highlight that it is a feature that may be performed by another application such as the third party application.

At input is received associating a data object with a notebook. The API may be configured to allow third party applications to assign a data object to a specified notebook. In at least some such embodiments the input associating the data object with a notebook received at may be received at the API from another application such as a third party application.

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as an electronic device including a mobile communications device. The electronic device includes components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods which may be by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable storage medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. For example a compute readable storage medium may include computer executable instructions for performing one or more of the methods described herein. It is understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium or computer readable storage medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu Ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various example embodiments presented above are merely examples. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

