---

title: Multidimensional navigator
abstract: A multidimensional navigator configured to facilitate navigation to electronic content is contemplated. The navigator may include a plurality of dimensions and/or levels whereby each level displays electronic content available for navigation. The electronic content identified within each level may be arranged in a fisheye configuration comprising a plurality of rings where each ring identifies electronic content associated with a different resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456249&OS=09456249&RS=09456249
owner: Cable Television Laboratories, Inc.
number: 09456249
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130627
---
The present invention relates to navigational interfaces such as but not necessarily limited to a multidimensional navigator configured to facilitate user navigation of electronic content.

Locating and navigating to electronic content can be problematic particularly when there is an abundance of available content. Navigation of Web based content such as that delivered or accessed through webpages may be eased with the use of a search engine. The search engine may perform a keyword search of available webpages to identify those having content related to a search term. The search engine may return the corresponding search results within a webpage having a plurality of links to the related content. The links may be arranged in an order of relevance such that a link deemed to be the most relevant by the search engine is provided at a top of the webpage and additional links are thereafter listed according to their individual relevance. Typically a user may select a link from this first set of search results to view a first piece of content. From the first piece of content the user may then formulate subsequent search terms based on the first piece of content that reveal subsequent search results with links to subsequent pieces of content. Thus in a top down step wise or linear fashion the user may explore the contents of the Internet in general or various sub spaces thereof. This navigation is typical for search engines for search of webpages on the Internet in general as well as defined sub spaces of the Internet e.g. Wikipedia USPTO. For example a typical user of Wikipedia may search on a first term then subsequently link to highlighted words within the Wikipedia page that leads to other Wikipedia pages in a sequential manner.

This top down sequential arrangement of the search results according to search term or keyword relevance may fail to adequately identify a resource or piece of content associated with an initial search of webpages. While a user may quickly identify an initial webpage or list of content items deemed to be the most relevant the user may be less likely to quickly ascertain whether the corresponding webpages are associated with desirable resources and their overall relationship to one another. In particular the user may prefer navigating search results in a more holistic or relational manner based in part on content that may be remote in relation to an initial term. In addition such search results of available content may be based on results from a plurality of resources. Accordingly one non limiting aspect of the present invention contemplates a need to allow a user to quickly and simultaneously view content from a search including remote content and content from different resources based off of an initial search term rather than a long sequential series of searches.

As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention that may be embodied in various and alternative forms. The figures are not necessarily to scale some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

The fisheye navigator may be a computer program product an application or other software constructed configured to enable user search selection of available content and optionally subsequent navigation to selected content. The fisheye navigator may be configured to present the available content in a multi dimensional format as a function of search results obtained from a plurality of resources . A first resource a second resource and a third resource are shown for exemplary purposes as the number of relied upon resources may be limitless and or vary depending on the type or nature of the content being presented and or other search restraints and limitations. The first second and third resources may be search engines databases or other information repositories configured to track monitor tabulate analyze list or otherwise identify content available from the content sources . Resources may be viewed as a service or portal. For example a resource may be the Google database the Bing database or other such webpage search engines. Alternatively the resources may combine for example a variety of resources such as Amazon Barnes and Noble IMdB and a local movie time locations listings database. The fisheye navigator may be configured to consult different resources depending on the nature of the search term such as but not limited to resources related to webpages books movie television programming parts catalogs social networks etc. While the resources are shown to be unassociated with the content sources the resources may be content sources and or dedicated search engines or services for a particular content source e.g. a content source that is unavailable to the other resources. illustrates system for navigating electronic content one or more content sources are accessible to a selected one or more of resources in accordance with one non limiting aspect of the present invention.

In the example shown in fisheye navigation of the movie Cat on a Hot Tin Roof is shown. Selection of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof may come from various tiles or titles of movies in a movie navigation screen on a computer tablet TV etc. Other movie titles are shown in the background with Cat On a Hot Tin Roof selected and exploded into an overlay on a background screen . In a first ring the major actors are shown Elizabeth Taylor Paul Newman Burl Ives. Also shown are the movie trailer and the storyline and in this example an advertisement or link to a VOD asset. In a second ring some of the supporting actors are shown Richard Brooks Jack Carson Judith Anderson Madeleine Sherwood Vaughn Taylor. Also shown in the second ring is a link to trivia and another advertisement to purchase Broadway movie tickets. Content sources and content identifiers from these first two rings may come from a typical movie database such as IMdB Amazon FLixter Rotten Tomatoes etc. Moving outward content sources and content identifiers become more remote in relation to the initial search term. In a third ring information that is not related to the movie search item Cat on a Hot Tin Roof itself might be displayed. For example other movies in the same genre or movies that are often associated with Cat on a Hot Tim Roof because of common actors or playwrights are shown Whose Afraid of Virgina Woolfe A Streetcar Named Desire The Long Hot Summer Giant Gone with the Wind All About Eve Night of the Iguana. This information in the third ring may come from a similar resource or an alternative resource. For example such information may come from a search of Amazon and drawn from frequently bought together listing or a those who bought this also liked this . For movies recommendation engines such as Jinni might be used to populate the third ring . Content that is more remotely related to the initial search term might be displayed the farther out the 64Academy Awards Ceremony clip a Simpson s episode parody of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof a Late Show with David Letterman that featured Elizabeth Taylor A Happy Birthday Elizabeth tribute etc. This information in Ring may come from for example a more general Internet search on the term Cat on a Hot Tin Roof using for example Google Bing or other search engines. Thus using the present invention a user is presented with a wide range of information that is both closely related to the initial search term and more remote all in one display. Opportunities for advertising and sale of related goods and services may also be interspersed.

Content identifiers may be included within each ring to identify the content uncovered as part of the corresponding search results. Each ring may correspond with a different set of search results generated from searching a different one or more of the plurality of resources . The fisheye navigator is not necessary limited to each ring being associated with a different resource and fully contemplates multiple rings including content identifiers uncovered from the same one or more of the plurality of resources . The content identifiers may be arranged in such a multi dimensional manner in order to quickly draw the user s attention to relationship of the rings and or plurality of resources to the search term. A user may specify a preference for the ordering of the rings and or the resources being used to populate the rings in order to further facilitate navigational ease. The number of content identifiers included within each ring may vary depending on spatial constraints of the corresponding ring i.e. the outer rings may have more space and therefore more room for additional content identifiers than the more inner rings. This fact may lend itself to the easy display of more remote content identifiers in the more remote rings that is more remote content in relation to the initial search term is likely to be hierarchically or exponentially related to the initial search term.

In the event more search results are identified for one or more of the rings than that which can be displayed a relevancy assessment may be performed to facilitate display of the content identifiers deemed to be most relevant to the search term. Alternatively an indication that of additional content identifiers exist e.g. . . . may be made. In the event the search results uncover an insufficient number of content identifiers to populate an entire area of one of the rings openings may be included with the corresponding ring and or the spatial arrangement of content identifiers within that ring may be adjusted to present a uniform appearance. Also advertisements or other features may be identified within the rings to facilitate generating revenue and or offering content or other services to the user. A plurality of additional buttons or selection menus may be provided around an exterior of the outer ring to offer additional content or to perform other navigational related operations. In one example the illustrated fisheye navigator may be provided through a cable television device such as a set top box or a second screen application to facilitate navigating television related content. The content identifiers included within the fisheye navigator may be those corresponding with television or movie related content available or related to the search term. The plurality of buttons included around the exterior of the fisheye navigator may relate to video on demand VOD movies or other programs in may be selected for searching or viewing. In other words the fisheye navigator may be an overlay on a more traditional two dimensional guide or listing of content on a TV or on the Internet where additional visual representations images may appear behind the fisheye navigator . Optionally the fisheye navigator may be transparent or partially transparent in order to permit partial viewing of covered images. The overlaid fisheye navigator may be useful in facilitating manipulation of an overlaid VOD guide or electronic programming guide EPG which may be tied to a settop box STB or other device having capabilities to access content from additional content sources . Selection of a corresponding visual representation in the fisheye navigator may result in automatic engagement of the overlaid interface such as ordering of a VOD asset or changes to the displayed content sources e.g. navigation to another page of the guide . Likewise the fisheye navigator can be an overlay on a typical webpage of text or an e book.

One non limiting aspect of the present invention contemplates facilitating navigation of search results in a manner that is convenient and easily understood by a user. The described fisheye navigator is believed to facilitate this by enabling multiple searches to be conducted utilizing information associated with one or more resources with the results of those searches being simultaneously displayed and easily recognizable. The fisheye navigator may be quickly beneficial in ameliorating the number of clicks or operations a user may otherwise be required to perform in order to generate corresponding search results i.e. the user of the present invention is no longer required to repeatedly provide the search term and or repeatedly direct the corresponding search. The fisheye navigator may be beneficial in allowing the user to input his initial search term one time and the fisheye navigator system thereafter automatically performs a plurality of searches and displays the corresponding search results without the user having to repeatedly click icons or performing other repetitive input related operations. The content identifiers generally have some relation to the initial search item albeit more remote as the user views the outer rings and as noted above advertising can also be inserted which may or may not be related to the initial search term. The device may automatically navigate to content selected from within the fisheye navigator and or direct other devices to facilitate user access to the corresponding content.

Optionally instead of navigating to a selected one of the content identifiers the fisheye navigator may also be configured to perform a re focusing operation where content identifiers selected from within a first fisheye navigator may become the new initial search term for searches displayed within a second fisheye navigator search. illustrate use of a fisheye navigator while reading text for example in an e book of Romeo and Juliet. An initial selection of the Juliet as the search term within the fisheye navigator is shown in . The fisheye navigator is presented as an overlay to the actual text of the play below. In the user has navigated from Juliet as a first search term selected Hamlet as a second search term and in changed the focus of the fisheye navigator and all surrounding content identifiers to those associated with Hamlet. In this example the underlying e book text of Romero and Juliet may or may not change also to the play Hamlet The control of the fisheye navigator to immediately access the content or to perform a re focusing operation may be based on user interaction with the device . The fisheye navigator may be configured to perform the re focusing operation in the event a user performs a tap and hold operation where a magnifying effect is provided over the selected content identifier. The tap and hold operation may be beneficial in allowing the user to easily perform the re focusing without having to perform multiple clicks and without having to enter the search term i.e. the fisheye navigator may automatically determine the search term from the highlighted content identifier. The fisheye navigator may be configured to immediately access the content e.g. via a webpage URL link instead of performing the re focusing in response to an operation other than the tap and hold operation such as in response to a single click or single tap of the content identifier. In a touch screen implementation of the fisheye navigator the user may slide their finger across the content identifiers traversing the various rings but keeping contact with the screen. Stopping at a selected content identifier and lifting the finger selects that item and the fisheye navigator navigates to the content behind the content identifier. Alternatively if the user pauses for more than a given time on a content identifier e.g. 3 seconds the content identifier becomes new focus of a new search with the fisheye navigator with rings and new content identifiers correspondingly shown in relation to that new search item.

The relation of the resources to the search term may be determined in a manner that provides some variability in the search results presented to the user. By selecting resources having varying or different relations to the search term the fisheye navigator may collect search results from different resources with different relevancy to the search term i.e. by displaying search results potentially having less relevancy to the search term due to the search result being uncovered from a resource that is more remotely or tangentially related to the search term. Keep in mind that the varying search results can all come from one resource e.g. Google or Bing or other search engines. The varying search results may be generated from performing an initial search based on the search term. Then taking the top N e.g. 5 hits the search engine can generate secondary search terms based on the web pages of the top N hits to perform a secondary search. Continuing the top M hits from the secondary search can be used to generate search terms for a tertiary search and so on. Alternatively a heuristic or predictive search approach can be used. That is based on the initial search term a search engine resource associated with the fisheye navigator can predict how a typical user would perform sequential searches. For example in the prior art a search for a movie title might be followed by a sequential search for reviews and a trailer then a sequential search for show times and locations. Using the fisheye navigator to present results for a movie title a first ring is populated with content identifiers indicating synopsis main actors director etc. generated from a movie database such as IMdb Flixter EIDR or other resources. A second ring is populated with content identifiers indicating more remote information such as related movies those who viewed this also liked X etc. generated from a separate section of the movie database or a recommendations engine. A third ring is populated with show times and location content identifiers generated from a local geographic movie listings database and or the local TV movie listings including video on demand titles e.g. denver.mrmovietimes.com comcast.net. Predicative and heuristic searching is well known in the art and multiple techniques may be employed.

As noted above advertising and or paid placement of search results can be accommodated in the fisheye navigator . Advertising and paid placement of search results is well known in the art.

As the search results are presented to the user the relation to the initial search term may be more remotely related to the initial term and or relate to the initial search term in a different manner. But using the fisheye navigator the user is able to see the relationship of the varying content identifiers displayed and the user does not need to perform multiple serial searches.

The consulted resources may provide the search results in a search result message which is shown to correspond with a first search result a second search result and a third search result . The search results may be tabulated or otherwise processed by the fisheye navigator in order to facilitate their simultaneous display. The results may be communicated with typical application program interfaces or APIs that provide access to various search resources. The fisheye navigator may be configured to an assessment of the relation of each search result to user preferences or other criteria used to specify the rings or other levels within which the corresponding search results are to be displayed. While concentrically arranged rings are shown to demarcate the resource relationships to the search term the present invention is not necessarily so limited and fully contemplates other hierarchical configurations or other arrangements where the relation of resources to search term may be demarcated or otherwise presented to the user.

A fisheye process may correspond with the device displaying the fisheye navigator to the user to facilitate navigation of the search results. Subsequent user interaction with the fisheye navigator may be used to facilitate further navigation or searching within the search results and or navigating the device or other element associated with the device to selected content. In the event tap and hold or other operation is performed indicating a desire to perform a new search from a selected content identifier the multidimensional fisheye navigation process may repeat by returning to the determination of the new search term. This may include performing additional searches and re focusing the fisheye navigator to the content identifier selected as part of the fisheye process. In the event a click or other operations performed indicating desired to navigate to a selected content identifier a navigate content operation may be performed. The navigate content operation may correspond with the device contacting one or more of the content sources for access to the desired content. The information necessary to facilitate contacting the content sources and or or accessing the desired content may be determined from information included within the search results and or other information provided to the device . This navigation from a content identifier to the actual content may include the URL of a web page.

As supported above one non limiting aspect of the present invention contemplates use of n dimensional Fisheye Navigator maybe invoked via a double tap and hold or could be a cursor or mouse gesture too operable on a phone tablet computer etc. to bring up concentric circles of navigable links related to a word subject of focus. A first concentric ring dimension may contain for example links highly related or corresponding to the initial search term. A Second concentric ring dimension may contain links further out defined by examples below and so on. By sliding your finger already in a hold position the links of various depth dimension can be navigated from the single fisheye navigator. Rather than multiple searches multiple pages and multiple clicks or page by page in sequential exploration on the Web the present invention allows multiple search results to be displayed from a single initial search term.

One non limiting aspect of the present in invention contemplates re focusing a center of the fisheye as the user navigates around the rings. The re focus effect may occur for example after pausing on an item for more than a few seconds or by double tapping. This would then take the new item make it the center of the rings and re populate the concentric rings in various dimensions around the new focus item.

For navigation to a particular content identifier in the rings a touch sensitive or intelligent operation to permit navigation to a chosen identifier is used i.e. go to the web page of that item in response to lifting a finger tapping clicking a mouse cursor etc. Information to populate the rings of the Fisheye Navigator may come from many resources as noted above and in the examples below. One of the advantages of the Fisheye Navigator is the single fisheye displays links of multiple depth and multiple pages all in one dimension page which may be beneficial in ameliorating a multi click multi page search. Another advantage is that the format of concentric circles allows for the outer information which is likely more numerous to be placed in larger rings where there is more screen real estate.

One non limiting aspect of the present in invention contemplates advertisements being incorporated into the rings. And as the outer rings may bring in information that would otherwise be buried down 6 levels 6 clicks and 6 sequential pages and likely never viewed such remote links might be monetized more readily as an advertiser would be willing to pay because the ad will be exposed not buried.

One non limiting aspect of the present in invention contemplates movie TV navigation. This may include using for example a tablet as remote control a movie including the current movie displaying on the tablet or on a big second screen can be highlighted double tap and hold use right click or other common selection gestures to invoke the Fisheye Navigator. In a first concentric ring links to items highly related to the movie itself are shown e.g major actors and the trailer these are items for example in the target movie itself but not required or limiting in this invention . In a next concentric circle additional information might be shown other actors director playright trivia etc. which may be metadata about the movie. The first two rings can get this information from for example Internet Movie Database IMDb Rotten Tomatoes Flixter or Entertainment Identifier Registry EIDR . Use of common APIs to retrieve the data may be employed. A third ring may start to bring in external information for example top films in the same genre films with the same actors films by the same director. This ring can also be populated by IMDB or EIDR Rotten Tomatoes Flixter those who bought this also liked this . . . or a commercial recommendation engine e.g. Jinni . A fourth ring might bring in information more remote based on a recommendation engine or a more random search of the movie or IMDB related information. Thus each ring may have different resources of information and or relation to the search term.

One non limiting aspect of the present in invention contemplates booking reading. This may include using for example a tablet a or graphic can be highlighted double tap and hold use right click or other common selection gestures to invoke the Fisheye Navigator. Not all words are fisheye enabled just some like hyperlinked words in text. In a first concentric ring links to items highly related to the current book itself are shown e.g characters Table of Contents Synopsis see e.g. a resource like Amazon books info and use of common APIs to such information . In a next concentric circle additional information might be shown additional characters author etc. also available from Amazon Barnes and Noble etc. In a third concentric circle books by same author might be shown third party recommendation engine etc. A third ring may start to bring in external information for example similar parallel books movies plays books in the same genre see third party recommendations engine those who bought random search engine search on the book .

One non limiting aspect of the present in invention contemplates Web page navigation. This may include certain words or icon graphic in a web page being indicated for fisheye navigation like hyperlinked words whereby a double tap and hold invokes the Fisheye Navigator. Here a first ring might include by default a search engine defaults like search defaults wiki pictures about media if relevant etc. A second ring might include a people also searched for list. A third tier might include information derived from predictive or heuristic models that incorporate a next page analysis that goes beyond the people also search for but is also based on heuristic predictive and statistical models i.e. the navigator browser can predict where you are possibly going and show all such possible paths.

One non limiting aspect of the present in invention contemplates a parts catalog navigation e.g. for an airplane. This may include using for example a tablet or a larger screen or smart glass where one can navigate complex parts catalog using the Fisheye Navigator. A single part e.g. a screw on the wing can be highlighted double tap and hold to invoke the Fisheye Navigator. In a first concentric ring links to items that are directly connected to that part are shown by part number or by icon . In a next concentric ring the major subsystem that the part screw is a part of plus the sister subsytems might be shown. Next the more major subsystems are shown e.g. wing gas tanks engines . Next the even more major systems are shown fuselage fore aft landing gear . Overall think of Table of Contents indentation levels that populate the rings.

One non limiting aspect of the present in invention contemplates social network navigation. This may include a social network being represented by a hierarchical relational database. This hierarchy might be represented in the FishEye Navigator in 1degree friends in a first ring 2degree friends in a second ring 3degree friends in a third ring etc. Of course given some large friend networks the number of names that appear in each circle might be further limited by those most emailed or most navigated in order to narrow the friends displayed. Alternatively and indication of additional friends may be show with . . . or some other indication.

While exemplary embodiments are described above it is not intended that these embodiments describe all possible forms of the invention. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally the features of various implementing embodiments may be combined to form further embodiments of the invention.

