---

title: Content URL authentication for dash
abstract: Technology for content uniform resource locator (URL) authentication for dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) (DASH) is disclosed. In an example, a client device can include computer circuitry configured to: Receive a URL authentication key indicator and a content URL signature indicator from a server; generate a calculated URL signature for a URL in a DASH media presentation description (MPD) from the URL authentication key indicator; request the DASH segment when the calculated URL signature matches the received content URL signature, thereby authenticating content URL; and receive a DASH segment using the authenticated content URL. The received content URL signature is derived at the server from the content URL contained within the DASH segment URL.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09419973&OS=09419973&RS=09419973
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09419973
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
This application is a 371 U.S. Nationalization of Patent Cooperation Treaty Application PCT US13 76837 filed Dec. 20 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 824 338 filed May 16 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 753 914 filed Jan. 17 2013 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

The wireless device can be used receive multimedia delivery of Internet video using various protocols such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP streaming. A protocol to provide HTTP based delivery of video streaming can include dynamic adaptive streaming over HTTP DASH .

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Hypertext transfer protocol HTTP streaming can be used as a form of multimedia delivery of Internet video. In HTTP streaming a multimedia file can be partitioned into one or more segments and delivered to a client using the HTTP protocol. HTTP based delivery can provide reliability and deployment simplicity due to a broad adoption of both HTTP and HTTP s underlying protocols including transmission control protocol TCP internet protocol IP . HTTP based delivery can enable easy and effortless streaming services by avoiding network address translation NAT and firewall traversal issues. HTTP based delivery or streaming can also provide the ability to use standard HTTP servers and caches instead of specialized streaming servers. HTTP based delivery can provide scalability due to minimal or reduced state information on a server side. Examples of HTTP streaming technologies can include Microsoft IIS Smooth Streaming Apple HTTP Live Streaming and Adobe HTTP Dynamic Streaming.

Dynamic adaptive streaming over HTTP DASH can be a standardized HTTP streaming protocol. In DASH a media presentation description MPD metadata file can provide information on the structure and different versions of the media content representations stored in the server including different bitrates frame rates resolutions or codec types. In addition DASH can also specify segment formats. The MPD metadata file can contain information on the initialization and media segments for a media player e.g. the media player can look at initialization segment to determine a container format and media timing information to ensure mapping of segments into a media presentation timeline for switching and synchronous presentation with other representations. Based on this MPD metadata information that describes the relation of the segments in forming a media presentation clients or client devices can request the segments using HTTP GET or partial GET methods. The client can fully control the streaming session. For example the client can manage an on time request and smooth playout of the sequence of segments and potentially adjusting bitrates or other attributes e.g. to react to changes of the device state or the user preferences . DASH technology has also been standardized by other organizations such as the Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG Open IPTV Forum OIPF and Hybrid Broadcast Broadband TV HbbTV .

A DASH client can receive multimedia content by downloading the segments through a series of HTTP request response transactions. DASH can provide the ability to dynamically switch between different bit rate representations of the media content as the available bandwidth changes. Thus DASH can allow for fast adaptation to changing network and wireless link conditions user preferences and device capabilities such as display resolution the type of central processing unit CPU employed or memory resources available and so forth.

In DASH a media presentation description MPD metadata file can provide information on the structure and different versions of the media content representations stored in a web media server as illustrated in . The different versions of the media content representations can include different bitrates frame rates resolutions codec types or other similar types of information. In addition DASH can also specify the segment formats which can contain information on initialization and media segments for a media engine to ensure mapping of segments into a media presentation timeline for switching and synchronous presentation with other representations. Based on the MPD metadata information which describes the relationship of the segments and how the segments form a media presentation a client can request the segments using an HTTP GET message or a series of partial GET messages. The client can control the streaming session such as managing an on time request and smooth playout of a sequence of segments or potentially adjusting bitrates or other attributes to react to changes of a device state or a user preference.

For example a web browser of the client can request multimedia content using a HTTP GET message . The web server can provide the client with a MPD for the multimedia content. The MPD can be used to convey the index of each segment and the segment s corresponding locations as shown in the associated metadata information . The web browser can pull media from the server segment by segment in accordance with the MPD as shown in . For instance the web browser can request a first fragment using a HTTP GET URL frag req . A uniform resource locator URL or universal resource locator can be used to tell the web server which segment the client is to request . The web server can provide the first fragment i.e. fragment . For subsequent fragments the web browser can request a fragment i using a HTTP GET URL frag i req where i is an integer index of the fragment. As a result the web server can provide a fragment i . The fragments can be presented to the client via a media decoder player .

As illustrated in DASH can specify different formats for a media presentation description MPD metadata file that provides information on the structure and different versions of the media content representations stored in the server as well as the segment formats. In DASH a media presentation description MPD metadata can provide information on the structure and different versions of the media content representations stored in a web media server. In the example illustrated in the MPD metadata can be temporally divided into periods having a predetermined length such as 60 seconds in this example. Each period can include a plurality of adaptation sets . Each adaptation set can provide information about one or more media components with a number of encoded alternatives. For example adaptation set in this example might include a variety of differently encoded audio alternatives such as different bit rates mono stereo surround sound and so forth. In addition to offering different quality audio for a multimedia presentation over the period ID the adaptation set may also include audio in different languages. The different alternatives offered in the adaptation set are referred to as representations .

In Adaptation set is illustrated as offering video at different bitrates such as 5 mega bits per second Mbps 2 Mbps 500 kilo bits per second kbps or a trick mode. The trick mode can be used for seeking fast forwarding rewinding or other changes in location in the multimedia streaming file. In addition the video may also be available in different formats such as two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D video or portrait or landscape oriented video. Each representation can include segment information . The segment information can include initialization information and the actual media segment data . In this example an MPEG 4 MP4 file is streamed from a server to a mobile device. While MP4 is used in this example a wide variety of different codecs may be used. A codec is a device application element or computer program capable of encoding or decoding a digital data stream or signal.

The multimedia in the adaptation set can be further divided into smaller segments. In the example of the 60 second video segment of adaptation set is further divided into four sub segments of 15 seconds each. These examples are not intended to be limiting. The actual length of the adaptation set and each media segment or sub segment is dependent on the type of media system requirements potential types of interference and so forth. The actual media segments or sub segments may have a length that is less than one second to several minutes long.

The DASH standard can include a segment authentication framework allowing use of digital signatures or digests for DASH segment types in order to verify the origin and content authenticity. Signatures or digests may be provided for media segments or media sub segments as well as for initialization index and bitstream switching segments. As used herein the term signature and digest may be used interchangeably for the same feature or element. The segment authentication framework can calculate a signature of an unencrypted segment and store the value externally. An MPD interface can provide URL templates to retrieve the signatures using HTTP or secure HTTP HTTPS . HTTPS is a communications protocol for secure communication over a computer network with especially wide deployment on the Internet. The client can retrieve the signature and then calculate the signature locally on an unencrypted media segment or subsegment using a validation key and can reject the media segment or subsegment in case of a mismatch between the retrieved signature and the calculated signature. Rejected media segment or subsegment may not be viewed or played at the client device.

In an example the signatures can be calculated from a hashing function using authentication or validation keys combined with the URL for the media segment or subsegment. The keys may be provided by a server or a trusted entity.

Segment authentication can be independent of a content protection scheme and may be used on unencrypted segment as well as on encrypted segments encrypted using a digital rights management DRM system. For example a content authentication descriptor e.g. ContentAuthentication can be used in the MPD to declare the authentication framework and communicate the signature URLs. Multiple content authentication schemes can be used. For instance two schemes can be specified in the DASH standard for content authentication including the SHA 256 digest identified by the uniform resource name URN urn mpeg dash sea sha256 and the HMAC SHA1 signature identified by urn mpeg dash sea hmac sha1 . The keyed hash message authentication code HMAC is a specific construction for calculating a message authentication code MAC involving a cryptographic hash function in combination with a secret cryptographic key. SHA 1 or SHA1 is a cryptographic hash function designed by the United States National Security Agency NSA and published by the United States National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST as a U.S. Federal Information Processing Standard. Moreover a content digest element e.g. ContentDigest can provide a template for constructing a URL which can be further used for downloading a signature for a specified media segment or subsegment. Similarly a content signature element e.g. ContentSignature can provide a URL for key acquisition and a template for constructing a URL or URI which can be further used for downloading the signature for a specified media segment or subsegment. A uniform resource identifier URI can include a URL or URN.

The DASH standard can define methods to authenticate DASH segments. As provided herein DASH can provide technology e.g. servers client devices or terminals user equipments UEs methods computer circuitry systems mechanisms processes or procedures to authenticate the URLs in the MPD. Without content URL authentication and if the URL mapping of a desired DASH segments in the MPD is incorrect the user may receive an unexpected data stream. Incorrect mappings may be introduced through various elements in the content distribution system used to deliver the content from the content source to the end user. For instance one situation to introduce incorrect URL mappings may arise when a list of URLs is compiled by a reseller. A content provider may provide DASH content generation and delivery services to resellers of streaming content such as internet service providers or mobile operators who provide end users access to the DASH content. A service level agreement between a content provider and a reseller can include a provision that commits the content provider to a specified level of content delivery accuracy as well as penalty provisions if the specified level of accuracy is not achieved. Therefore binding a URL to the content that it represents can be beneficial which can ensure that the intended content gets delivered to the users. Technology can be used to validate that the intended content is accessed by the intended client or user . Communication of validation keys for authentication of URLs through signatures or digests which can be indicative of a content source can allow the DASH client to check the validity of the MPD URLs and ensure the content is received from the expected source. Using the MPD or media segments to signal validation and or authentication keys signatures or digests or their locations e.g. URLs can be beneficial for proper content delivery.

Another example for the URL signing capability or URL authentication can be for client authentication which can be used to control access to a specific resource and also identify content as not intended for a certain group of users. Content and service providers in order to protect their copyright and fulfill their licensing obligations can restrict access to content and limit viewing times. Client authentication can be used to control access to a specific resource and also identify content as not intended for a certain group of users. For example authentication keys for certain types of restricted material such as copyrighted material or pay per view content may be distributed only to authorized users. As another example rating information e.g. G PG PG 13 TV 14 or R may be provided for parental control. In such settings a client specific authentication key can be delivered to the intended users and only the users with the correct authentication key information may be allowed to access the content. Player programs application or devices can operate with specified modes that allow and or prohibit play of DASH content as identified by the authentication keys for the content.

A client specific authentication key may be inserted as a parameter within an access URL by a service platform which can then be checked by a delivery server before fulfilling the request. The DASH client can insert various authentication parameters in a query part of the media segments URLs and thereby client specific URLs may be generated. In another example the authentication keys to generate media segments URL from the MPD URLs can be delivered to DASH clients via the MPD or via other delivery mechanisms.

For example URL signatures and or digests may be generated for the URLs contained in the MPD file. In a configuration the information on the signatures can be communicated via the MPD file. The signature can be contained in the MPD file or URLs pointing to these signatures can be contained in the MPD file or a list or template based URL construction rules to generate the URLs for these signatures may be contained in the MPD file. Thus the MPD file can include a signature a URL pointing to the signature a list of URL construction rules to generate the URL for the signature or template based URL construction rules to generate the URL for the signature.

For instance an URLAuthentication descriptor may be used in the MPD to declare the authentication framework and communicate the signature URLs. Multiple content authentication schemes can be defined. Moreover a URLDigest element may provide a template for constructing a URL which can be further used for downloading the signature for a given URL. Similarly a URLSignature element can provide a URL for key acquisition and a template for constructing a URL which can be further used for downloading the signature for a given URL.

Different components of a URL may be authenticated differently. For example a set of signatures may be included for the base URL i.e. at the DASH MPD period adaptation set or representation level for base URL authentication and then the remaining URL components pointing to specific DASH representations and segments may be signed or authenticated separately as shown in . In another example a set of signatures may be included for the sourceURL attribute in the SegmentBase element e.g. DASH segment base that can contain an absolute URL of a DASH segment for DASH segment base authentication . In another example a set of signatures may be included for the Location element that includes an absolute URL for the MPD for DASH MPD location authentication . Authenticating the MPD location and the base URL and communicating the corresponding signatures to the DASH client can be beneficial for content source validation.

For DASH playlists where each DASH segment is assigned a URL that is contained in the MPD each playlist specific URL may be signed or authenticated by signatures i.e. at the DASH period adaptation set or representation level for DASH segment list authentication . For DASH templates where URL of each DASH segment is generated by the DASH client by a pre defined rule each template specific URL may be signed or authenticated by signatures i.e. at the DASH period adaptation set or representation level for DASH segment template authentication .

In another configuration the information on the URL signatures may be carried or embedded within DASH segments instead of the MPD. In an example the signatures can be carried within a file level International Organization for Standardization base media file format ISO BMFF box e.g. in initialization segment such as in a moov box for ISO BMFF or in media segments such as in a moof box for ISO BMFF as illustrated in . In another configuration an indicator may be included in the MPD to signal the presence of the embedded information on the signatures within the DASH segments so that the DASH client can prepare to receive the signatures prior to segment reception.

For example the URL signatures can be embedded in a 3GPP file format 3GP file e.g. mp4 file in a moving picture experts group 4 MPEG 4 file format as an instantiation of an International Organization for Standardization ISO Base Media File Format BMFF as part of streaming and download applications as illustrated in . The content file e.g. mp4 file can include an initialization segment such as a moov box and media data mdat . The moov box can include initial object descriptor IOD a Binary Format for Scene BIFS trak or track an object descriptor OD trak a video trak and an audio trak . The embedded URL signatures can be included in the moov box. The mdat can include interleaved time ordered BIFS OD video and audio access units AC .

In another example an authenticity tag URLs may be provided for segment URLs via the MPD file using an UrlAuthenticity element that declares the authentication framework and communicates the authentication key and signature URLs. The URL authentication can be optional if used with SupplementaryProperty descriptor and mandatory if used with EssentialProperty descriptor. The value of schemeIdUri in either EssentialProperty or SupplementalProperty can be urn mpeg dash sea urlauth 2013 if the UrlAuthenticity element authentication framework is used.

In another configuration the UrlAuthenticity element can be implemented in a DASH MPD based on 3GPP technical specification TS 26.247 V11.0.0 2012 09 or defined as an EssentialProperty or SupplementalProperty based on the joint working group International Organization for Standardization ISO International Electrotechnical Commission IEC 23009 1 2012 depending on the application. The UrlAuthenticity element can provide a URL for key acquisition and a template for constructing a URL which can be further used for downloading the authenticity tag for a given MPD segment URL. For instance the UrlAuthenticity element can be included in the MPD where the MPD can have common attributes and elements. The semantics of UrlAuthenticity element can be as shown in Table 1. The UrlAuthenticity element can include attributes authSchemeIdUri authUrlTemplate authTagLength keyUrlTemplate validityExpires or inbandAuthTag. Each element or attribute can have an element or attribute name use or description. The use column in Table 1 can have an attribute marked with M mandatory O optional OD optional with default value or CM conditionally mandatory .

An example extensible markup language syntax XML syntax for the UrlAuthenticity element can be as shown in Table 2 illustrated in .

Communication of validation keys for authentication of URLs through signatures indicative of a content source can allow the DASH client to check the validity of the MPD URLs. The DASH client can also receive the content specific authentication keys for various DASH components e.g. the DASH period adaptation set or representation . This communication or signaling can allow the client to retrieve the URL signatures and then also calculate URL signatures locally based on the URLs in the received MPD and corresponding authentication key and reject the corresponding content in case of a mismatch. Such content URL validation information signatures or authentication keys or their locations URLs may be signaled as part of the MPD or media segments. The framework or process can calculate a signature of a segment URL and store the value externally along with the signature verification and or authentication keys. The MPD interface can provide URL templates to retrieve these signatures using HTTP or HTTPS. The DASH client can retrieve the signatures and authentication keys then calculate the signatures locally on a given segment URL and can reject the URL in case of a mismatch.

DASH content URL authentication can have various applications or use cases . Five use cases can illustrate some of the advantages and benefits of DASH content URL authentication. In a first use case Alice can have a DASH capable client application that allows her watch DASH formatted content. She can be subscribed to Operator BestCoverage Telecom s mobile streaming service. She may be interested in watching a movie A Dash through the Clouds which is available in a DASH format. The operator can restrict access to the movie to authorized users and employ 3GPP based authentication mechanisms to restrict access e.g. content URL authentication . Since Alice may already subscribe to the mobile streaming service her client application can be authenticated and she can enjoy the movie.

In a second use case Alice and Bob can both have DASH capable client applications that allow them watch DASH formatted content. They can both be subscribed to Operator BestCoverage Telecom s mobile streaming service. Bob can pay for a premium streaming plan while Alice can prefer and pay for a cheaper basic streaming plan. They can both be interested in watching the movie A Dash through the Clouds . The movie can be available in DASH format at different bitrates and or resolutions. Due to Bob s premium plan subscription Bob s client application can access and receive streams at various bitrates and or resolutions offered by the service e.g. by selecting at a given time a best resolution given a link bandwidth and device capabilities . Alice s client application may be restricted from accessing the highest bitrates and or resolutions due to her basic subscription so Alice s client application using content URL authentication may only receive streams from a limited set of the available bitrates and or resolutions.

In a third use case the Operator BestCoverage Telecom operator may have recently invested significantly into the operator s infrastructure and may be looking for new business opportunities to increase the operator s service revenues by focusing on the over the top OTT content distribution value chain. Particularly the operator may wish to leverage their information systems and network equipment e.g. home subscriber subsystem HSS that may contain valuable user information including authentication keys user identities and user service profiles. Such user information can enable the operator to perform a number of control functions including user authentication authorization of user access to services and billing on behalf of content and content distribution network CDN providers. The operator may have recently signed a security and or authentication related service level agreement SLA with a DASH content provider MyDASH to distribute MyDASH s DASH formatted content by fulfilling user authentication and authorization on behalf of MyDASH over the operator s 3GPP generic authentication architecture GAA . MyDASH can host a tiered subscription service and provide enforcement of content specific access restrictions for client authentication using the content URL authentication.

In a fourth use case the Operator BestCoverage Telecom operator may have recently signed a service level agreement SLA with over the top OTT DASH content provider MyDASH to distribute and or resell MyDASH s DASH formatted content. The operator can plan to use the DASH formatted content from MyDASH to offer various new services to the operator s clients. The operator can use DASH content URL authentication to ensure integrity of the content and associated metadata for a consistent user experience. Even though the operator investments can be made to the operator s infrastructure to ensure security the operator may also use the technology described herein to provision against the potential intrusions to during DASH content delivery from MyDASH. The operator can include a provision that commits MyDASH to a specified level of content delivery accuracy as well as penalty provisions if the specified level of accuracy is not achieved. In response MyDASH can enable authentication mechanisms for the operator to validate the integrity of the delivered content and MPD.

In a fifth use case the Operator BestCoverage Telecom operator can sign service level agreements SLA with several over the top OTT DASH content providers to distribute and or resell the DASH content providers DASH formatted content. The operator can use these DASH formatted contents to offer various new services to the operator s clients. The operator can use DASH content URL authentication to ensure integrity of the content and associated metadata for a consistent user experience. In particular the operator can employ a service via stream splicing to create media mashups by combining content from multiple sources. For instance an advertisement insertion for both video on demand VoD and live streams provides an example of a possible media mashup. Such schemes e.g. media mashups can employ dynamic MPD generation or rewriting but these schemes may not modify or remove segment URLs and other metadata used for content URL authentication. Improper modification of MPD and segment URLs or other metadata may cause playback interruptions and in a case of unplayed advertisements improper modification of MPD and segment URLs or other metadata may result in loss of revenue for content providers and the operator.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a client device operable for content uniform resource locator URL authentication for dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol HTTP DASH as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to receive a URL authentication key indicator and a content URL signature indicator from a server as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to generate a calculated URL signature for a URL in a DASH media presentation description MPD from the URL authentication key indicator as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to request the DASH segment when the calculated URL signature matches the received content URL signature thereby authenticating content URL wherein the received content URL signature is derived at the server from the content URL contained within the DASH segment URL as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to receive a DASH segment using the authenticated content URL as in block .

In an example the computer circuitry configured to receive the URL authentication key indicator and the content URL signature indicator can be further configured to receive the URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator via a media presentation description MPD metadata file. The URL authentication key indicator can include a URL authentication key or the content URL signature indicator can include a content URL signature. In another configuration the URL authentication key indicator can include a pointer key URL that points to the URL authentication key or the content URL signature indicator can include a pointer signature URL that points to the content URL signature. The computer circuitry can be further configured to obtain the URL authentication key using the pointer key URL or obtain the content URL signature using the pointer signature URL.

In another example the URL authentication key indicator can include a URL construction rule that can provide a template to construct the authentication key URLs or the content URL signature indicator includes a URL construction rule that can provide a template to construct the URLs for the content URL signatures. The computer circuitry can be further configured to generate the authentication key URLs using the URL construction rule or generate the URLs for the content URL signatures using the URL construction rule. In another configuration a URL Authenticity descriptor can be used to declare an authentication framework via the URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator. The URL Authenticity descriptor can include a URL Digest element or a URL Signature element. The computer circuitry can be further configured to construct a signature URL using a template from the URL Digest element and download a content URL signature from the signature URL. Or the computer circuitry can be further configured to construct an authentication key URL from the URL Signature element download a URL authentication key from the authentication key URL construct a signature URL using a template from the URL Signature element and download a content URL signature from the signature URL.

In another example the URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator can be used to authenticate a base URL for a DASH MPD period adaption set or representation level or the URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator can be used to authenticate a segment URL of the MPD. In another configuration the URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator can be used to authenticate a DASH playlist including a plurality of DASH segment URLs. The URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator can be used to authenticate each playlist specific URL in the DASH playlist. In another example the URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator can be used to generate a DASH template for a plurality of DASH segment URLs. The URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator can indicate a predefined rule used to authenticate each template specific URL.

In another configuration the computer circuitry configured to receive the URL authentication key indicator and the content URL signature indicator can be further configured to receive a media presentation description MPD metadata file including the URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator. The URL authentication key indicator can indicate that the URL authentication key is embedded in the DASH segment or the content URL signature indicator can indicate that the content URL signature is embedded in the DASH segment. The computer circuitry configured to receive the DASH segment can be further configured to receive the URL authentication key or the content URL signature within the DASH segment.

In another example the computer circuitry configured to receive the URL authentication key indicator and the content URL signature indicator can be further configured to receive the URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator via file level International Organization for Standardization ISO base media file format ISO BMFF file box in the DASH segment. The URL authentication key indicator can include a URL authentication key or the content URL signature indicator can include a content URL signature. The DASH segment can include an initialization segment or a moov box for the ISO BMFF or the DASH segment can include a media segment or a moof box for the ISO BMFF. The client device can include a mobile terminal MT a user equipment UE or a mobile station MS . In another example the client device can include an antenna a camera a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

Another example provides a method for providing content uniform resource locator URL authentication for dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol HTTP DASH at a client device as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving a URL validation key indicator from an authentication server as in block . The next operation of the method can be calculating a calculated URL signature for a URL in a DASH media presentation description MPD using the URL validation key indicator as in block . The method can further include requesting the DASH segment when the DASH segment URL is validated using the calculated URL signature as in block .

In an example the operation of receiving the URL validation key indicator can further include receiving the URL validation key indicator via a media presentation description MPD metadata file. In a configuration the URL validation key indicator can include a URL validation key or a content URL signature. The operation of validating the DASH segment URL using the calculated URL signature can further include comparing a server generated content URL signature with the client device calculated URL signature. In another configuration the URL validation key indicator can include a pointer key URL that points to the URL validation key or a pointer signature URL that points to the content URL signature. The method can further include retrieving the URL validation key using the pointer key URL or retrieving the content URL signature using the pointer signature URL.

In another configuration the URL validation key indicator can include a URL construction rule that can provide a template to construct the authentication key URLs or a URL construction rule that can provide a template to construct the URLs for the content URL signature. The method can further include constructing a validation key URLs using the URL construction rule or constructing the URLs for the content URL signatures using the URL construction rule. The URL validation key indicator can be used to authenticate a base URL for a DASH MPD period adaption set or representation level. Or the URL validation key indicator can be used to authenticate a segment URL of the MPD.

Referring back to the server can include a processor and a transceiver. The processor can be configured to generate a content URL signature a URL authentication key indicator and a content URL signature indicator for a DASH segment URL. The URL authentication key indicator or a content URL signature indicator can be used by a client device to generate a calculated URL signature for the DASH segment URL. The transceiver can be configured to transmit a URL authentication key indicator and a content URL signature indicator to the client device receive a URL request from the client device for the DASH segment and transmit a DASH segment to the client device associated with the URL request.

In an example the transceiver can be further configured to transmit the URL authentication key indicator and the content URL signature indicator via a media presentation description MPD metadata file. The URL authentication key indicator can include a URL authentication key or the content URL signature indicator can include a content URL signature. In another example the URL authentication key indicator can include a pointer key URL that points to the URL authentication key or the content URL signature indicator can include a pointer signature URL that points to the content URL signature. The transceiver can be further configured to transmit the URL authentication key when the pointer key URL is received or transmit the content URL signature when the pointer signature URL is received.

In another configuration the URL authentication key indicator can include a URL construction rule that can provide a template to construct the authentication key URLs. Or the content URL signature indicator includes a URL construction rule that can provide a template to construct the URLs for the content URL signatures. In another example the URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator can be used to authenticate a base URL for a DASH MPD period adaption set or representation level. Or the URL authentication key indicator or the content URL signature indicator can be used to authenticate a segment URL of the MPD.

In another configuration the transceiver can be further configured to receive the calculated URL signature from the client device. The processor can be further configured to validate the client device with the calculated URL signature. The server can include a web server a media server an authentication server a third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE packet switched streaming service PSS server a dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol HTTP DASH server or an integrated multimedia subsystem IMS based PSS and multimedia broadcast and multicast service MBMS IMS PSS MBMS server.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes compact disc read only memory CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a random access memory RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module i.e. transceiver a counter module i.e. counter a processing module i.e. processor and or a clock module i.e. clock or timer module i.e. timer . One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example or exemplary means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example or the word exemplary in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

