---

title: Prioritized message notification for mobile communication devices
abstract: A mobile communication device can receive an inbound message, which can optionally be a voice call. Based on receipt or lack or receipt of an identifier data packet via a different communication layer than the inbound message or based on content of such an identifier data packet received in this manner, a level of prioritization can be recognized for the inbound message. A notification of the message can be provided based on the recognized level of prioritization. Methods, systems, articles of manufacture, and the like are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09326109&OS=09326109&RS=09326109
owner: SAP SE
number: 09326109
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130626
---
The subject matter described herein relates to approaches to notifying a mobile communication device user of a prioritized inbound message such as for example a voice call etc.

Users of mobile communication devices such as for example cellular telephones personal digital assistants smart phones tablet computers and the like are typically capable of receiving inbound messages in a wide range of locations and under a wide variety of personal circumstances. However in at least some locations and under at least some circumstances receipt of an inbound message can require the recipient to change his or her current behavior or location in order to receive the message in an appropriate manner. For example if the inbound message is a voice call and the recipient is in a meeting or in some other location or circumstance under which receiving a voice call is not appropriate the recipient can be required to decide whether to reject or ignore the voice call for example by allowing it to be directed to the recipient s voice mail box or to excuse himself or herself from the meeting in order to receive the call in a more appropriate location. Lacking any knowledge of the subject or content of the inbound message the recipient is typically required to guess whether the inbound message merits the effort involved in changing location and or circumstances to receive the inbound message directly instead of delaying receipt via a voice mail box or the like.

While a recipient of an inbound message may be able to make a basic determination about the priority of the inbound message for example based on the caller or sender of the inbound message the time of day etc. such information generally cannot be used to distinguish with sufficient specificity between possible levels of prioritization of the inbound message. For example even if an inbound voice call is indicated by the mobile communication device as originating from the recipient s spouse s device the recipient typically has no way of knowing whether or not the inbound message is urgent and requiring of immediate attention from the recipient e.g. if an accident has occurred an important opportunity has come up etc. or if his or her spouse is calling about a relatively low urgency matter e.g. meal plans an invitation received from friends to attend a sporting event or a movie etc. that the recipient can safely address with some delay if the recipients current location or circumstances make receiving a voice call difficult or inappropriate.

Consistent with some implementations of the current subject matter a mobile communication device can receive an indication that accompanies or that is otherwise received substantially concurrently with or even slightly prior to the inbound message. The indication which can take one or more of several forms can include a message or other signal that the mobile device interprets to be indicative of an elevated priority associated with the inbound message. The mobile device can then present the inbound message to a user in a manner than conveys the elevated priority associated with the inbound message.

In one aspect a method includes a mobile communication device receiving an inbound message via a first communication layer and determining whether an identifier data packet associated with the inbound message has been received via a second communication layer that differs from the first communication layer. The identifier data packet includes information about a priority level associated with content of the inbound message. The method can also include recognizing a level of elevated prioritization associated with the inbound message based on the determining and providing a notification of the inbound message based at least in part on the recognized level of elevated prioritization and optionally on one or more notification handling parameters defined for the mobile communication device.

In some variations one or more of the following features can optionally be included in any feasible combination. For example the inbound message can include a voice call. The identifier data packet can include information about a priority level associated with content of the inbound message. The first communication layer can include a voice channel of the mobile communication device. The second communication layer can include at least one of an SMS layer a data link layer and a data communication protocol layer used by the mobile communication device. The identifier data packet can include an indication that the inbound message has the associated level of prioritization and the associated level of prioritization can be selected from a plurality of levels of prioritization. Receipt of the identifier data packet can indicate that the inbound message has an elevated level of prioritization and lack of receipt of the identifier data packet can indicate that the inbound message does not have an elevated level of prioritization.

Implementations of the current subject matter can include but are not limited to methods consistent with the descriptions provided herein as well as articles that comprise a tangibly embodied machine readable medium operable to cause one or more machines e.g. computers etc. to result in operations implementing one or more of the described features. Similarly computer systems are also described that may include one or more processors and one or more memories coupled to the one or more processors. A memory which can include a computer readable storage medium may include encode store or the like one or more programs that cause one or more processors to perform one or more of the operations described herein. Computer implemented methods consistent with one or more implementations of the current subject matter can be implemented by one or more data processors residing in a single computing system or multiple computing systems. Such multiple computing systems can be connected and can exchange data and or commands or other instructions or the like via one or more connections including but not limited to a connection over a network e.g. the Internet a wireless wide area network a local area network a wide area network a wired network or the like via a direct connection between one or more of the multiple computing systems etc.

The details of one or more variations of the subject matter described herein are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the subject matter described herein will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims. While certain features of the currently disclosed subject matter are described for illustrative purposes in relation to an enterprise resource software system or other business software solution or architecture it should be readily understood that such features are not intended to be limiting. The claims that follow this disclosure are intended to define the scope of the protected subject matter.

Implementations of the current subject matter can include one or more methods systems articles of manufacture and the like that supported identification by a mobile device of a prioritized inbound message. In non limiting implementations the inbound message is an inbound voice call. A voice call as used in the following description will be understood to include any of a telephone call a voice over internet protocol VOIP call a video call e.g. a video call made using a service such as Skype offered by Skype Communications SARL of Luxembourg FaceTime offered by Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. Google Talk or Google Hangouts offered by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. etc. or the like. The following descriptions of illustrative features are discussed in reference to a voice call. However it will be understood that unless otherwise unfeasible for some reason the approaches discussed can also be applied to other types of inbound messages such as for example inbound short message service SMS messages e.g. text messages e mail messages multimedia message service MMS messages or the like.

At the mobile communication device determines whether an identifier data packet associated with the inbound message has been received via a second communication layer. The second communication layer differs from the first communication layer. The identifier data packet includes information about the priority of the inbound message. For example the identifier data packet can include an indication that the inbound message is either urgent or not urgent. This indication can be as simple as a single bit which is on to indicate an urgent inbound message and off to indicate a non urgent message or vice versa . In other examples receipt or non receipt of an identifier data packet can respectively indicate that the inbound message has an elevated priority or should be treated as a normal inbound message.

As discussed in more detail below the second communication layer can in some examples include one or more of a SMS text messaging layer a data link layer a settable bit or other data unit or packet delivered as part of a data communication protocol layer used by the mobile communication device or the like. The communication protocol can optionally be the Global System for Mobile Communications or GSM protocol one of various standards used by code division multiple access CDMA mobile device networks or the like.

Referring back to at the mobile communication device recognizes a level of prioritization associated with the inbound message based on the determining at . In examples in which receipt of an identifier data packet via a second communication layer indicates that the inbound message has elevated priority and absence of receipt of an identifier data packet via the second communication layer indicates that the inbound message does not have elevated priority the recognizing of the level of prioritization associated with the inbound message can include a binary inquiry. In other examples a received identifier data packet can include additional information that can inform a more detailed inquiry as part of the recognizing of the level of prioritization associated with the inbound message. For example a finer level of granularity can be achieved based on additional data content in the identifier data packet. More than two levels e.g. prioritized or not prioritized of prioritization can be supported in this manner. In the case of more than two levels of prioritization that can be associated with an inbound message a user can optionally define a threshold level of prioritization that must be associated with an inbound message for the inbound message to be recognized as having an elevated level of prioritization.

At the mobile communication device provides a notification of the inbound message based at least in part on the recognized level of prioritization and optionally on one or more notification handling parameters defined for the mobile communication device. As examples a prioritized inbound message can be delivered with a visible audible tactile e.g. vibration of the mobile communication device or the like or other indication that the inbound message has an elevated prioritization associated with it. A non prioritized inbound message can be delivered without such an indication. Alternatively only those messages with an elevated level of prioritization can be delivered at all. In the case of the inbound message being a voice call for example a non prioritized inbound message can be sent directly to a voice mailbox rather than alerting the user of the mobile communication device at all regarding the existence of the inbound message.

As shown in the framework diagram of implementations of the current subject matter can include exchange of an inbound message originating from a sender mobile communication device and delivered to a receiver mobile communication device over a network . A first communication layer can be used in sending and receiving the inbound message . A second communication layer can be used in sending by the sender mobile communication device and receiving by the receiver mobile communication device an identifier data packet that can have one or more features as discussed elsewhere herein. Each of the sender mobile communication device and the receiver mobile communication device can include hardware such as at least one programmable processor a communication transceiver a display screen one or more user input features e.g. a physical or soft keyboard a touch screen one or more soft or physical buttons etc. and the like.

The receiver mobile communication device can support user configuration capabilities that allow a user to determine the actions to be taken for inbound messages with an associated elevated level of prioritization for those inbound message with no elevated level of prioritization etc.

In some implementations of the current subject matter a receiver mobile communication device can execute an application e.g. software based functionality etc. that recognizes the level of prioritization associated with the inbound message based on the received identifier data packet and that determines the type of notification to be provided. In some implementations the application can also serve as an originator for sending of a message from the receiver mobile communication device to another mobile communication device. In other words the receiver mobile communication device can also act as a sender mobile communication device . As a non limiting example a user can initiate such an application or activate a feature or function within the application already running on the receiver mobile communication device that causes the receiver mobile communication device to filter inbound messages by associated levels of priority such as is described above.

Major mobile communication device platforms such as for example iOS available from Apple Computer Inc. Android available from Google Inc. Windows Phone available from Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. and the like typically provide application programming interfaces APIs that allow mobile device applications e.g. apps to initiate and receive voice calls and also to send a data message such as a SMS message an e mail or the like.

Consistent with implementations of the current subject matter a sender application at a sender mobile communication device can implement prioritized outbound messaging as follows. For an outgoing voice call the sender application can generate both an SMS and a voice call addressed to the message recipient. The SMS can be sent in a silent mode meaning that the receiver mobile communication device does not provide a notification or other display to a user of the receiver mobile communication device upon receipt of the SMS. The receiver mobile communication device also need not store the SMS. However a receiver application at the receiver mobile communication device can react to receipt of both the silent SMS and the voice call. Whenever both the SMS and the voice call are received the voice call can be recognized as prioritized and the receiver application can cause the receiver mobile communication device to provide a notification of the inbound call. A voice call received by the receiver mobile communication device without the accompanying silent SMS would not be recognized as prioritized by the receiver application. The receive application can optionally be a same application as the application on the sender mobile communication device . Alternatively the receiver application can be a different application than the sender application.

Alternatively the accompanying silent SMS can include one or more items of data content. In an example the silent SMS can include a designation of one of two or more levels of prioritization and the app at the receiver mobile communication device can assign one of a plurality of notification options to the inbound message based at least in part on the designated level of the two or more levels of prioritization. For example the two or more levels of prioritization can include a lowest level or prioritization a highest level of prioritization and at least one intermediate level of prioritization.

The receiver application can include one or more parameter setting features such as for example a settings screen to allow the user to define how prioritized inbound messages are treated. In other implementations of the current subject matter the treatment of inbound messages according to the recognized level of prioritization can be predetermined. In such an example the receiver application can behave as discussed above but can optionally include an ability for the user to turn the prioritization recognition and notification features off and on depending on location and current circumstances of the receiver mobile communication device . In other examples the receiver application can perform the prioritization recognition and notification features only if it is active only it is running optionally either as a background application or as a currently active application or the like.

In other implementations of the current subject matter features of a mobile communication device network protocol e.g. GSM CDMA or the like can be sued as the second communication layer discussed above. As an example the GSM protocol generally initiates a voice call to a mobile communication device via an alerting message. As discussed in the ETS 300 557 Digital cellular telecommunications system Phase 2 Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification GSM 04.08 version 4.23.1 12th Edition October 1999 which is incorporated herein by reference see e.g. section 9.3.1 the alerting message can include an information element labeled user user generally containing user defined data e.g. data evaluated and used by the mobile communication device provider . This field can be used to carry one or more additional bits that can comprise the identifier data packet discussed above. For example the one or more additional bits can provide an indication of a level of prioritization to be associated with the inbound message for which the alerting message is sent to the receiver mobile communication device .

As another example The GSM protocol can initiate a voice call from a sender mobile communication device via a setup message. see e.g. section 9.3.23 of the European Telecommunications Standard cited above . The eighth bit of the repeat indicator field of such a setup message is unused and can be used consistent with implementations of the current subject matter to serve as the identifier data packet.

Other mobile communication device communication protocols can include similar available locations within exchanged data packages. One or more of these available locations can be leveraged for use as the identifier data packet as discussed above. In these manners or in similar approaches the alerting message or other call initiation data exchange mechanism can serve as the aforementioned second communication layer consistent with implementations of the current subject matter.

One or more aspects or features of the subject matter described herein can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various aspects or features can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which can be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. The programmable system or computing system may include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

These computer programs which can also be referred to programs software software applications applications components or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural language an object oriented programming language a functional programming language a logical programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the term machine readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device such as for example magnetic discs optical disks memory and Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor. The machine readable medium can store such machine instructions non transitorily such as for example as would a non transient solid state memory or a magnetic hard drive or any equivalent storage medium. The machine readable medium can alternatively or additionally store such machine instructions in a transient manner such as for example as would a processor cache or other random access memory associated with one or more physical processor cores.

To provide for interaction with a user one or more aspects or features of the subject matter described herein can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as for example a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or a light emitting diode LED monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as for example a mouse or a trackball by which the user may provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well. For example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback such as for example visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user may be received in any form including but not limited to acoustic speech or tactile input. Other possible input devices include but are not limited to touch screens or other touch sensitive devices such as single or multi point resistive or capacitive trackpads voice recognition hardware and software optical scanners optical pointers digital image capture devices and associated interpretation software and the like.

The subject matter described herein can be embodied in systems apparatus methods and or articles depending on the desired configuration. The implementations set forth in the foregoing description do not represent all implementations consistent with the subject matter described herein. Instead they are merely some examples consistent with aspects related to the described subject matter. Although a few variations have been described in detail above other modifications or additions are possible. In particular further features and or variations can be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example the implementations described above can be directed to various combinations and subcombinations of the disclosed features and or combinations and subcombinations of several further features disclosed above. In addition the logic flows depicted in the accompanying figures and or described herein do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. Other implementations may be within the scope of the following claims.

