---

title: Remote industrial monitoring and analytics using a cloud infrastructure
abstract: A cloud-based infrastructure facilitates gathering, transmitting, and remote storage of control and automation data using an agent-based communication channel. The infrastructure collects the industrial data from an industrial enterprise and intelligently sorts and organizes the acquired data based on selected criteria. Message queues can be configured on the cloud platform to segregate the industrial data according to priority, data type, or other criteria. Behavior assemblies stored in customer-specific manifests on the cloud platform define customer-specific preferences for processing data stored in the respective message queues. An agent-based analytics framework in the cloud platform performs desired analytics on the data using distributed parallel processing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253054&OS=09253054&RS=09253054
owner: Rockwell Automation Technologies, Inc.
number: 09253054
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130416
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 863 976 filed on Apr. 16 2013 and entitled REMOTE INDUSTRIAL MONITORING USING A CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 681 443 filed on Aug. 9 2012 entitled REMOTE INDUSTRIAL MONITORING USING A CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE. The entireties of these related applications are incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to systems and methods that provide remote monitoring services for an industrial automation system over a cloud infrastructure

Industrial controllers and their associated I O devices are central to the operation of modern automation systems. These controllers interact with field devices on the plant floor to control automated processes relating to such objectives as product manufacture material handling batch processing supervisory control and other such applications. Industrial controllers store and execute user defined control programs to effect decision making in connection with the controlled process. Such programs can include but are not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such programming structures.

Because of the large number of system variables that must be monitored and controlled in near real time industrial automation systems often generate vast amounts of near real time data. In addition to production statistics data relating to machine health alarm statuses operator feedback e.g. manually entered reason codes associated with a downtime condition electrical or mechanical load over time and the like are often monitored and in some cases recorded on a continuous basis. This data is generated by the many industrial devices that can make up a given automation system including the industrial controller and its associated I O telemetry devices for near real time metering motion control devices e.g. drives for controlling the motors that make up a motion system visualization applications lot traceability systems e.g. barcode tracking etc. Moreover since many industrial facilities operate on a 24 hour basis their associated automation systems can generate a vast amount of potentially useful data at high rates. For an enterprise with multiple plant facilities the amount of generated automation data further increases

The large quantity of data generated by modern automation systems makes it possible to apply a broad range of plant analytics to the automation systems and processes that make up an industrial enterprise or business. However access to the industrial data is typically limited to applications and devices that share a common network with the industrial controllers that collect and generate the data. As such plant personnel wishing to leverage the industrial data generated by their systems in another application e.g. a reporting or analysis tool notification system visualization application backup data storage etc. are required to maintain such applications on site using local resources. Moreover although a given industrial enterprise may comprise multiple plant facilities at geographically diverse locations or multiple mobile systems having variable locations the scope of such applications is limited only to data available on controllers residing on the same local network as the application.

The above described deficiencies of today s industrial control and business systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to deployment of cloud data storage farms for storing alarm historical and live automation data using an agent based communication channel. To this end a cloud based infrastructure according to one or more embodiments described herein can facilitate gathering transmitting and remotely storing control and automation data and relating information. The infrastructure can collect the industrial data from data collectors in an industrial enterprise including but not limited to SQL systems data historians data tables or other such plant floor and or business level collectors. The cloud based infrastructure can intelligently sort and organize the acquired data based on selected criteria e.g. time of occurrence of a plant floor event priority etc. . In order to transfer data from the plant floor to the cloud the infrastructure can include a data collecting service agent that executes periodic collecting and transmission of serialized data into the cloud domain.

A network of virtual servers hosts multi agent systems with agents representing the on premise machine process. These multi agent systems represent agent based analytics of different degrees and lifecycles. The agent based analytic framework can facilitate coordination between on premise agents at the plant facility and high analytics agents residing on the cloud platform.

In addition the collected data can be processed based on agent communication and service discovery capabilities for intelligently directing remote storage of the data into preconditions blobs. In one or more embodiments agent reasoning and collective bargaining can be used to determine a data stage locale and subsequent retrieval. In such embodiments the agents assume cloud web role and worker role responsibilities.

Cloud agents can also discover fundamental associations between the collected data in the cloud infrastructure and perform actions based in part on the discovered associations. This can include for example triggering intelligent alarms generating recommended courses of action or initiating a control output in response to a discovered condition based on the learned associations.

In addition the cloud based infrastructure can include an agent based analytics framework that can perform analytics on large sets of industrial data in the cloud. The agent based analytics framework can leverage a distributed file system framework facilitate parallel processing of the industrial data using a set of virtual servers deployed on the cloud platform.

The cloud based infrastructure can also include a set of web based and or browser based tools for that allow an end user to retrieve direct and or uncompress the data from the cloud.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

Exemplary automation systems can include one or more industrial controllers that facilitate monitoring and control of their respective processes. The controllers exchange data with the field devices using native hardwired I O or via a plant network such as Ethernet IP Data Highway Plus ControlNet Devicenet or the like. A given controller typically receives any combination of digital or analog signals from the field devices indicating a current state of the devices and their associated processes e.g. temperature position part presence or absence fluid level etc. and executes a user defined control program that performs automated decision making for the controlled processes based on the received signals. The controller then outputs appropriate digital and or analog control signaling to the field devices in accordance with the decisions made by the control program. These outputs can include device actuation signals temperature or position control signals operational commands to a machining or material handling robot mixer control signals motion control signals and the like. The control program can comprise any suitable type of code used to process input signals read into the controller and to control output signals generated by the controller including but not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such platforms.

Although the exemplary overview illustrated in depicts the industrial devices and as residing in fixed location industrial facilities the industrial devices and may also be part of a mobile control application such as a system contained in a truck or other service vehicle.

According to one or more embodiments of this disclosure industrial devices and can be coupled to a cloud platform in order to leverage cloud based applications. That is the industrial devices and can be configured to discover and interact with cloud based computing services hosted by cloud platform . Cloud platform can be any infrastructure that allows computing services to be accessed and utilized by cloud capable devices. Cloud platform can be a public cloud accessible via the Internet by devices having Internet connectivity and appropriate authorizations to utilize the services . In some scenarios cloud platform can be provided by a cloud provider as a platform as a service PaaS and the services such as the operator interface system described herein can reside and execute on the cloud platform as a cloud based service. In some such configurations access to the cloud platform and the services can be provided to customers as a subscription service by an owner of the services . Alternatively cloud platform can be a private cloud operated internally by the enterprise. An exemplary private cloud can comprise a set of servers hosting the cloud services and residing on a corporate network protected by a firewall.

Cloud services can include but are not limited to data storage data analysis control applications e.g. applications that can generate and deliver control instructions to industrial devices and based on analysis of real time system data or other factors visualization applications such as the cloud based operator interface system described herein reporting applications Enterprise Resource Planning ERP applications notification services or other such applications. If cloud platform is a web based cloud industrial devices and at the respective industrial facilities may interact with cloud services directly or via the Internet. In an exemplary configuration industrial devices and may access the cloud services through separate on premise cloud agents at the respective industrial facilities where the industrial devices and connect to the on premise cloud agents through a physical or wireless local area network or radio link. In another exemplary configuration the industrial devices may access the cloud platform directly using an integrated cloud interface.

Providing industrial devices with cloud capability can offer a number of advantages particular to industrial automation. For one cloud based storage offered by the cloud platform can be easily scaled to accommodate the large quantities of data generated daily by an industrial enterprise. Moreover multiple industrial facilities at different geographical locations can migrate their respective automation data to the cloud for aggregation collation collective analysis and enterprise level reporting without the need to establish a private network between the facilities. Industrial devices and having smart configuration capability can be configured to automatically detect and communicate with the cloud platform upon installation at any facility simplifying integration with existing cloud based data storage analysis or reporting applications used by the enterprise. In another exemplary application cloud based diagnostic applications can monitor the health of respective automation systems or their associated industrial devices across an entire plant or across multiple industrial facilities that make up an enterprise. Cloud based lot control applications can be used to track a unit of product through its stages of production and collect production data for each unit as it passes through each stage e.g. barcode identifier production statistics for each stage of production quality test data abnormal flags etc. . These industrial cloud computing applications are only intended to be exemplary and the systems and methods described herein are not limited to these particular applications. The cloud platform can allow software vendors to provide software as a service removing the burden of software maintenance upgrading and backup from their customers.

Maintaining stability and integrity of the physical equipment comprising a manufacturing environment is a high priority for most industrial enterprises. To this end it would be beneficial to monitor and forecast conditions of the various industrial systems and the devices that make up those systems to prevent harmful or catastrophic events from occurring e.g. events that may result in machine downtime sub standard product quality etc. . Remote monitoring of these industrial assets would allow plant personnel to view plant data generated by their systems from a remote location and could facilitate remote notification in response to a detected system event requiring attention. However on premise data collection required by such remote monitoring systems consumes large amounts of data storage. Moreover since such a remote monitoring system could involve transmission of potentially sensitive plant data to a remote viewer secure data transmission channels would be required.

Also some remote monitoring services depend on heavily customized systems and interfaces which can be monolithic and expensive. Such remote monitoring services using custom based technology can be expensive and difficult to expand without forcing a full re programming of the application and its interfaces. For example if a plant enterprise expanded their automation systems e.g. by adding a new production line adding new data points to an existing production line etc. it would be necessary to redevelop any customized remote monitoring systems in place to include the new systems or data points. The redeveloped monitoring system would then have to be retested and re deployed to facilitate monitoring of the newly expanded automation system. Conventionally these modifications often must be implemented by a hired software developer and thus would incur additional costs.

To address these and other issues one or more embodiments of the present application provide a cloud computing infrastructure for remote monitoring services using infrastructure constructs. illustrates a general high level overview of such a cloud computing infrastructure. In this exemplary architecture a number of industrial assets reside on a plant network in a manufacturing environment. These assets can include industrial controllers and that monitor and control I O device and a data server a motor drive and a remote I O interface that remotely interfaces a group of I O devices to one or more of the industrial controllers or . Although the illustrated example depicts a set of specific industrial devices residing on plant network it is to be appreciated that embodiments of the present application are not limited to interaction with this particular set of industrial equipment and that the systems and methods described herein are suitable for industrial environments comprising any combination of industrial assets.

Also located on the plant facility is a cloud agent that provides on premise data collection packaging and transmission of industrial data generated by the industrial assets. Cloud agent acts as a generic gateway to collect data items from the various industrial assets on plant network and packages the collected data according to a generic uniform data packaging schema used to move the on premise data to a cloud platform via the Internet . Once the packaged data has been provided to cloud platform the data can be retrieved or viewed from a remote monitoring center . Cloud agent provides a software mechanism to dynamically link on premise to cloud gateways. As will be described in more detail below cloud agent provides an expandable data type schema that allows new data types to be added without the need to redeploy the monitoring system to the cloud.

In the example illustrated in a data historian collects site data from one or more assets e.g. data generated by one or more industrial controllers such as industrial controllers and at a plant facility. For example data historian can monitor one or more controller tags defined in a tags archive and store data in local storage associated with data historian . This can include both historical data e.g. alarm history status history trend data etc. as well as live data values read from the controller s .

An on premise cloud agent is configured to collect and organize the live or historical data from the controllers either directly or by accessing data historian and send the collected data to the cloud platform for storage in some embodiments on premise cloud agent can also coordinate decision making with high analytics agents in the cloud platform as will be described in more detail below . The process of collecting the data involves intelligent sorting and organizing based on defined criteria including but not limited to time of occurrence and or user defined priorities. Cloud agent can be for example a service e.g. a Windows service that periodically collects and transmits serialized and compressed data into the cloud domain using standard web services over HTTPS SSL. Cloud agent can comply with standard agent communication to communicate with other on premise agents as well as agents in the cloud platform that perform high analytics on the industrial data as will be described in more detail herein. depicts data historian as the data source for cloud agent . This configuration can be useful when there are a large number of data points to monitor. However some embodiments of cloud agent can collect data directly from the manufacturing assets themselves e.g. through a Common Industrial Protocol link or through middleware applications such as OPC clients.

Cloud agent is illustrated in more detail with reference to . As noted above site data is collected by a data historian at the plant facility . Cloud agent comprises collection services that collect device data either from data historian or directly from the devices themselves e.g. variable frequency drives in the illustrated example via a common industrial protocol CIP link or other suitable communication protocol. Collection services can then compress the data and store the data in a compressed data file . Queue processing services can read the compressed data file and reference a message queuing database which manages customer site configuration and subscription to the remote monitoring system. Based on configuration information in the message queuing database queue processing services package the compressed data file into a data packet and push the data packet to the cloud platform. An exemplary data packet is illustrated in . In addition to compressed data file data packet can include a header that includes customer specific data read from message queuing database . For example header can include a unique customer ID a site ID representing a particular plant facility a virtual support engineer ID a data priority for the data in the compressed data file a message type and a process ID. Packaging the data in this way can allow data from diverse data sources to be packaged together using a uniform generic data packaging schema so that the data can be moved to the cloud infrastructure.

Message queuing database can include site specific information regarding what tag data are to be collected e.g. data tag identifiers etc. user defined priorities or data types for the data tags firewall settings that allow cloud agent to communicate with the cloud platform and other such configuration information. Configuration information in message queuing database instructs cloud agent how to talk to the data tags and to the remote monitoring service on the cloud platform.

In one or more embodiments in addition to collection and migration of data cloud agent can also perform local analytics on the data prior to moving the data to the cloud platform. This can comprise substantially any type of pre processing or data refinement that may facilitate more efficient transfer of the data to the cloud prepare the data for enhanced analysis in the cloud reduce the amount of cloud storage required to store the data or other such benefits. For example cloud agent may be configured to compress the collected data using any suitable data compression algorithm prior to migrating the data to the cloud platform. This can include detection and deletion of redundant data bits truncation of precision bits or other suitable compression operations. In another example cloud agent may be configured to aggregate data by combining related data from multiple sources. For example data from multiple sensors measuring related aspects of an automation system can be identified and aggregated into a single cloud upload packet by cloud agent . Cloud agent may also encrypt sensitive data prior to upload to the cloud. In yet another example cloud agent may filter the data according to any specified filtering criterion e.g. filtering criteria defined in a filtering profile . For example defined filtering criteria may specify that pressure values exceeding a defined setpoint are to be filtered out prior to uploading the pressure values to the cloud.

In some embodiments cloud agent may also transform a specified subset of the industrial data from a first format to a second format in accordance with a requirement of a cloud based analysis application. For example a cloud based reporting application may require measured values in ASCII format. Accordingly cloud agent can convert a selected subset of the gathered data from floating point format to ASCII prior to pushing the data to the cloud platform for storage and processing. Converting the raw data at the industrial device before uploading to the cloud rather than requiring this transformation to be performed on the cloud can reduce the amount of processing load on the cloud side.

Cloud agent may also associate metadata with selected subsets of the data prior to migration to the cloud thereby contextualizing the data within the industrial environment. For example cloud agent can tag selected subsets of the data with a time indicator specifying a time at which the data was generated a quality indicator a production area indicator specifying a production area within the industrial enterprise from which the data was collected a machine or process state indicator specifying a state of a machine or process at the time the data was generated a personnel identifier specifying an employee on duty at the time the data was generated or other such contextual metadata. In this way cloud agent can perform layered processing of the collected data to generate meta level knowledge that can subsequently be leveraged by cloud based analysis tools to facilitate enhanced analysis of the data in view of a larger plant context. Cloud agent can also send messages to cloud level agents using agent communication languages to perform multi layered analytics boundaries.

Returning now to cloud agent sends data packet to the cloud based remote monitoring system on cloud platform . Processing of the data is based on agent communication and service discovery capabilities for intelligently directing remote storage of the data into preconditioned cloud blobs . The infrastructure can use agent reasoning and collective bargain features to determine a data storage locale and subsequent retrieval.

Through the configuration interface provided by cloud agent users at the plant facility can dynamically configure one or more message queues that respectively define how the data is processed in the cloud platform . In the present example separate queues have been defined for alarms live data historical data and motor drive data. The historical data queue relates to time series records which can be accessed through an application programming interface API e.g. a structured query language SQL API or other suitable API . The alarms queue relates to abnormal situations where the alarm data can also be accessed through the API. This alarms queue can comprise multiple queues associated with different alarm priorities to allow for individual processing for different alarms having different levels of criticality. In some embodiments servers controllers switches etc. can be monitored using a number of protocols and at a certain point e.g. at the end of a monitoring cycle alarms can be queued up and cloud agent can send the alarms to the cloud. Alarms can be reactive e.g. alarms that trigger when a motor fails when a CPU crashes when an interlock is tripped etc. or proactive e.g. track consumables on a machine and generate an alarm when time to reorder monitor cycle counts on a machine and generate an alarm when to schedule preventative maintenance generate an alarm when temperatures go out of defined bandwidths send a notification when a computer s memory is 80 full etc. .

The live data queue relates to substantially real time monitored data such as current temperatures current pressures etc. The live data values can also be accessed through the API e.g. a SQL API . The motor drives queue is specific to motor drive data and can be accessed for example through a deep packet inspection DPI protocol to the respective drives in the illustrated example. In some example systems the motor drive data can relate to alarming and uploading of drive parameter data via a connector that uses the DPI protocol via a .Net class provided by the drives group.

Cloud agent can allow the user to define these queues from the on site location and to define how data in each queue is handled. For example the user can define for each queue an upload frequency a priority level e.g. which data queues should take processing priority over other data queues which cloud partitions or databases data from the respective queues should be placed in and other such information. In an exemplary scenario the live data queue may be defined to process live data values that are to be used by a remote operator interface application to view substantially real time data from the plant facility while historical data queue may be used to process historian data for archival storage in a historical database on cloud storage. Accordingly the live data queue may be assigned a higher priority relative to the historical data queue since data in the live data queue is more time critical than data in the historical queue.

Through cloud agent users can assign priorities to respective data tags or tag groups at the customer site. These priority assignments can be stored in the message queuing database of the cloud agent . Accordingly when queue processing services package the collected data to be moved to the cloud platform the collected data items can be packaged into data packets according to priority as defined in message queuing database and the respective data packet headers populated with the appropriate priority level. If access to the cloud is disconnected data will continue to be collected by collection services and stored locally at local storage associated with collections services. When communication to the cloud is restored the stored data will be forwarded to cloud storage. Queue processing services can also encrypt and send storage account keys to the cloud platform for user verification.

When cloud agent sends a data packet to the cloud based remote monitoring service the service reads the data header information to determine a priority assigned to the data e.g. as defined in the data priority field of the data packet and sends the data packet or the compressed data therein to a selected one of the user defined message queues based on the priority. On the other side of the message queues a worker role processes data in the respective queues according to the predefined processing definitions. Worker role determines how the queued data is to be processed based on behavior assemblies stored in a customer specific manifest. Behavior assemblies define and implement customer specific capabilities and preferences for processing monitored data. Behavior assemblies can be dynamically uploaded by a user at the plant facility through cloud agent which facilitates dynamic extension of SaaS cloud computing capability.

For example if new data points are to be added to the remote monitoring system that require creation of a new data queue the user can interact with cloud agent to configure a new behavior assembly for the new queue that defines such aspects as processing priority for the data upload frequency for the data where the data is to be stored within cloud storage and other such information. Cloud agent can then upload the new behavior assembly together with the data or independently of the data . The new behavior assembly is then added to the customer s manifest with the other behavior assemblies defined for the customer so that worker role can leverage the new behavior assembly to determine how data in the new queue is to be processed. This new behavior assembly need only be uploaded to the cloud based remote monitoring service once. Thereafter data placed in the new message queue of message queues will be processed by worker role according to the new behavior assembly stored in the customer s manifest. For example the behavior assembly may define where the data is to be stored within cloud storage e.g. in historical database or in Alarms and Live Data database and whether processing of the new data queue is to take priority over other data queues. In some embodiments the manifest may only accept a new behavior assembly if the behavior assembly is accompanied by a unique key associated with the client.

Partitioning of cloud storage can be configured by a management console which can write partitioning definitions to a system database associated with the cloud storage .

Once the cloud based remote monitoring infrastructure has processed and stored the data provided by cloud agent according to the techniques described above the data can be made accessible to client devices for viewing. Data analysis on the cloud platform can provide a set of web based and browser enabled technologies for retrieving directing and uncompressing the data from the cloud platform to the client devices . To this end reporting services can deliver data in cloud storage e.g. from the Alarm and Live Data database or historical database to the client devices in a defined format. For example reporting services can leverage monitored data stored in cloud storage to provide remote operator interfaces to client devices over the Internet.

It is to be appreciated that the interfaces illustrated in are only intended to be exemplary and that any suitable display format for plant data collected and stored in the cloud infrastructure are within the scope of one or more embodiments of this disclosure.

Using the cloud agent framework described above users can organize the cloud computing infrastructure at the plant facility through cloud agent without the need to redevelop recompile test and re upload the remote monitoring applications. Cloud agent provides a mechanism to integrate industrial devices or historians such as historian with the remote monitoring cloud infrastructure where data from plant side devices and historians can be leveraged by cloud based applications and services. By offering users the ability to create and upload behavior assemblies for respective data types cloud agent can facilitate dynamic allocation of cloud computing data storage and computing resources for plant data without the need to redeploy the remote monitoring application whenever functional changes are implemented. This can remove several engineering and architectural costs associated with implementation or re scaling of a remote monitoring service.

Some embodiments of cloud agent and the associated remote monitoring infrastructure can also facilitate intelligent alarming. For example cloud agent can analyze the collected data discover fundamental associations between data items and determine a next step of action so that alarms can be processed notifications can be sent from the cloud platform to the client devices or other such responses. For example in some embodiments the cloud based remote monitoring infrastructure can generate e mail notifications sent using a SendGrid service or other such service.

In one or more embodiments notification component can determine this notification information by cross referencing configuration data that identifies which personnel are to be notified for a given type of condition one or more notification methods for each identified person and or other relevant information. When analytics component determines that a subset of the industrial data requires action to be taken by plant personnel notification component can reference configuration data to determine for example which personnel should be notified which user devices should receive the notification a required action to be taken by the recipient a due date for the action a format for the notification and or other relevant information. Configuration data can maintain multiple separate personnel lists respectively associated with different types of actionable situations. In some embodiments the personnel list selected for a given notification can be at least partly a function of context data associated with the relevant subset of industrial data . For example if industrial data indicates that a process parameter has exceeded a setpoint value notification component can identify the list of personnel to receive the notification based on the area or workcell to which the process parameter relates.

Once the appropriate personnel and devices to be notified have been determined notification component can deliver notifications to one or more notification destinations. The notification can be sent to an Internet capable client device such as a phone a tablet computer a desktop computer or other suitable devices. In some embodiments a cloud application running on the cloud platform can provide a mechanism for notified personnel to communicate with one another via the cloud e.g. establish a conference call using Voice over IP . Notification component can also be configured to send the notification periodically at a defined frequency until the recipient positively responds to the notification e.g. by sending a manual acknowledgement via the client device . The notification component can also be configured to escalate an urgency of high priority notifications if an acknowledgment is not received within a predetermined amount of time. This urgency escalation can entail sending the notification at a gradually increasing frequency sending the notification to devices associated with secondary personnel if the primary personnel do not respond within a defined time period or other such escalation measures.

As described above industrial data collected from one or more customer facilities and moved to the cloud platform by the on premise cloud agent can be placed in a message queue for subsequent processing by a worker role. The processing functions performed on the data can be determined based on a behavior assembly associated with the message queue stored in the customer s manifest. In one or more embodiments cloud side processing can be performed by an analytics framework that facilitates agent based analysis of the collected data. The analytics framework can perform this agent based analysis using agent structures and communication. As will be described in more detail below the analytics framework can comprise a set of virtual servers that reside and execute on the cloud platform and can interface with a distributed file system framework that allows distributed computations to be performed on the large and diverse set of plant data stored on the cloud. In this way the large and growing volume of continuously collected plant data can be analyzed on the cloud platform quickly thereby allowing near real time monitoring and notification applications to be implemented in the cloud. Industry specific or customer specific analysis applications can be deployed in the cloud platform and maintained in the customer s manifest in some embodiments and applied to the collected set of customer data by the virtual servers. These applications can perform such functions as remote monitoring of the customer s industrial systems and assets predictive analysis of historical time series data alarming or other such functions.

Similar to the system described in connection with an on premise cloud agent is configured to collect live or historical plant data from one or more industrial assets in a plant facility . Worker role can receive the data sent to cloud platform by on premise cloud agent and place the data in cloud storage after performing any appropriate processing on the data as defined by a behavior assembly as described in previous examples . The behavior assembly may specify for example where the data is to be stored in cloud storage e.g. which cloud storage partitions . As described in previous examples the collected data may be packaged into a data packet that includes a header specifying such information as a unique customer ID a site ID identifying the plant facility as the source of the data a virtual support engineer ID a data priority for the data a process ID or other such information.

Since the industrial systems comprising plant facility may operate continuously and generate real time data at high frequencies cloud storage can contain a vast amount of real time and historical data from many disparate sources. Migrating this data to the cloud affords an opportunity to perform remote analysis on these large and disparate data sets. To this end cloud platform includes a framework for performing agent based analytics on the data placed in cloud storage . The agent based analytics framework can leverage a plurality of virtual servers that reside and execute on cloud platform to analyze the data in cloud storage in accordance with an analysis application . Analytic functions prescribed by analysis application can be carried out by cloud side agents executing on the virtual servers . In addition to carrying out execution functions of analysis application agents can also communicate with on premise cloud agent to facilitate coordinated analytics at both the plant level and the cloud level. For example one or more of the cloud based agents can push an on premise request for local analytics to the on premise cloud agent . In response the on premise cloud agent can perform the requested analytics locally at the plant facility and return a result to the cloud side agents . To perform the local analytics on premise cloud agent may access local data at the plant level e.g. controller data historian data status or telemetric data from one or more motor drives or other industrial devices etc. and perform all or a portion of the analytics on this local data. This localized analytic operation may be part of a larger analytical operation performed on the stored data by virtual servers as defined by analysis application .

To facilitate fast processing times despite the large amount of stored data the agent based analytics framework can operate in conjunction with a distributed file system framework which manages processing of the data such that processing functions are distributed across multiple virtual servers . Distributed file system framework can include a parallel processing model that facilitates parallel processing of the functions defined by analysis application across the cluster of virtual servers .

In one or more embodiments analysis application can be developed to perform industry specific processing on the stored industrial data. That is analysis application can be designed to perform near real time historical or predictive analysis on the plant data in view of one or more industry specific requirements or considerations. For example some industries may require that all software used in connection with monitoring and reporting of an industrial process conform to a defined set of standards e.g. the 21 CFR Part 11 standards applied to the food and drug industry . Accordingly if the data maintained in cloud storage comprises data from a pharmaceutical enterprise analysis application may comprise a monitoring and reporting application specific to the pharmaceutical industry that conforms to those industry specific reporting standards. In another example a given industry may commonly require aspects of a manufacturing process e.g. certain types of equipment particular phases of a batch process etc. to be monitored for particular trigger conditions. For such systems analysis application can be pre configured to perform the industry prescribed monitoring and reporting. In one or more embodiments analysis application can be provided as a generic application designed to perform the required industry specific analysis. The application can then be deployed for any such system operating in the defined industry after suitable customization to map the application to the customer s particular data points maintained in cloud storage . In some embodiments analysis application can also be customized to encapsulate customer specific machine rules or process rules which further determine how the stored data is analyzed

In an exemplary system analysis application can be designed to perform near real time monitoring of the customer s industrial data in the cloud platform and to generate notifications in response to detection of a defined alarm conditions e.g. via notification component of . In another exemplary system analysis application can be designed to perform predictive analysis on the collected data. Analysis application can also be configured to employ machine learning to identify correlations between disparate sets of data stored in cloud storage . For example based on an analysis of historical plant data stored in cloud storage e.g. in historical database of some embodiments of analysis application can learn event dependencies across a production line or supply chain and leverage these learned dependencies to associated a detected system event with an upstream event or an event that occurred at an earlier point in time.

In yet another example analysis application may comprise a cross customer analysis application that assists customers in identifying equipment configuration or process modifications that may improve overall system performance based on data mining of multiple sets of data associated with multiple customers. In such applications customers operating within a given industry and using similar systems may maintain sets of collected industrial data in their respective customer specific cloud partitions. The collected data may include not only production and or process data generated by the industrial processes but also data identifying the equipment e.g. device type brand model etc. in use at the respective customer facilities configuration data for the respective devices making up the systems and other relevant information. The customers may agree to make their respective data sets available for confidential collective analysis on the cloud platform. Analysis application can then identify different customer specific data sets and perform collective analysis on the data sets to identify trends correlate device configuration settings with particular metrics of system performance or other such analyses. Analysis application can then compare results of this analysis with the system configuration and or process data for a given customer and generate recommendations that are likely to improve one or more identified performance metrics for the customer s system. These recommendations can include but are not limited to recommended device configuration settings recommendations to replace a particular device or machine with a different model recommended programming changes suggested process changes to improve product throughput or other such recommendations.

Analysis application may also comprise a risk assessment application that analyzes the customer s historical and or real time system data and generates a risk profile that identifies potential risk factors. Such applications can identify for example risk of machine downtime equipment failure or potential future safety hazards given historical and current operating conditions. In some embodiments this risk assessment analysis can also consider aspects of the industrial enterprise outside the plant level. For example the customer data maintained on cloud storage may include business level data e.g. purchase order data inventory data economic data etc. and identify medium or long term risks relating to order fulfillment inventory lost profit opportunities etc. Analysis application may cross reference plant level and business level data in order to identify such risk factors e.g. determine a probability that current production and inventory levels will satisfy current and future product demand and generate a recommendation for increasing production if the probability drops below a threshold .

The agent based analytics framework can execute analysis application on a cluster of virtual servers executing on the cloud platform. In order to rapidly process the vast and continuously growing amounts of data residing on cloud storage virtual servers can be managed by a distributed file system framework which facilitates distributed parallel processing of the stored data in accordance with analysis application . The agent based analytics framework can interface with the distributed file system framework via a distributed processing framework interface which is configured to exchange instructions and data between virtual servers and distributed file system framework .

In operation distributed file system framework can divide analytical functions of the analysis application into executable fragments which can be distributed across virtual servers for processing. Parallel processing model can coordinate parallel execution of these executable fragments on virtual servers to rapidly perform the analytical functions in a distributed parallel manner on the cloud platform. For example parallel processing model can assign each processing fragment to a selected virtual server at a selected time based on such criteria as a current status of the respective virtual servers a status of the overall processing function being carried out a required order of operations or other such considerations. Distributed file system framework can also manage processing redundancy between the virtual servers . For example distributed file system framework may duplicate data or processing tasks across more than one of the virtual servers to reduce the likelihood that a processing failure on one of the virtual servers will result in lost data or necessitate a re execution of an operation or executable fragment.

In one or more embodiments all or portions of the functionality carried out by the agent based analytics framework can be carried out using agent communication. As illustrated in agents can reside on the virtual servers and collaborate to perform the analytical functions prescribed by analysis application . Agents can comprise individual autonomous computational elements that exchange data and instructions using a common agent communication language to facilitate collaborative processing across virtual servers . In some embodiments agents can be deployed by analysis application to encapsulate the machine rules and or process rules encoded in the application. Agents can also work in conjunction with the distributed file system framework to orchestrate parallel processing of stored industrial data on the cloud platform. For example if a processing task is requested by analysis application agents may negotiate to determine which agent and associated virtual server is to carry out the requested processing task. Moreover agent can communicate with on premise cloud agents e.g. agents or via agent communication language to achieve distributed decision making or to request local analytics to be performed by the on premise cloud agents.

Functions of the cloud based analytics described above can be performed in part by scripts invoked by an analytics capability manager. illustrates a logical architecture for such an analytics capability manager. In the illustrated example analytics capability manager receives a script request from an agent similar to agents of . Analytics capability manager may determine that the script request requires calculation of a temperature averaged over a time interval. This determination may be made based in part on information contained in a manifest . Each request to execute a script is handled as an individual thread of execution to retain parallelism in the computation. The infrastructure can avoid script execution replication by caching execution context. Similar to examples described above the manifest can contain customer specific behavior assemblies that define and implement preferences for processing data collected from the customer s industrial systems and moved to the cloud. For example the manifest can define a number of classes that collectively represent the desired analytics for a given industrial enterprise where each class is specific to an application level capability. Thus for each application level capability defined for a given industrial enterprise there is a class encapsulating an access point to a service into a cloud based application.

In general the cloud applications that make up the analytics for a given industrial enterprise can comprise one or more applications associated with each machine or process in use by the enterprise. An exemplary organization of analytic functionality is illustrated in . In this example an industrial enterprise comprises N sites e.g. plant facilities at different geographic locations with each site comprising a number of machines and or processes . Each machine process has associated therewith a set of cloud applications representing individual analytic functions that can be performed on data collected from the respective machines processes. Each of these cloud applications can be represented by a class maintained in the cloud platform. The class acts as an interface between analytics capability manager and the associated application. Hierarchical structure can form the basis for the analytics manifest which instructs the analytics capability manager which particular cloud application as a function of the industrial enterprise and or machine or process is to be run in a given circumstance.

Returning now to based on the script request and analytics defined in the manifest analytics capability manager invokes a class CalculateTemperatureAvg corresponding to a script for calculating an average temperature over a time interval. Communication between analytics capability manager and class can be messaged based e.g. via a message based packet . As part of the invocation analytics capability manager can pass context based parameters to the class. In the present example these can include parameters specifying the time range over which the average is to be calculated. In one or more embodiments an analytics engine can extract application specific parameters from the request fetch the script corresponding to the class invoked by analytics capability manager and invoke the distributed file system framework e.g. distributed file system framework of to facilitate parallel execution of the script using cloud resources. The script can be fetched for example from a script bank file system using a class discovery and uploading process.

As illustrated in upon completion of processing by the distributed file system framework analytics engine creates a response to analytics manager containing results of the processing in the present example results for average temperature and heating cooling tendency for a machine or process . This result is returned to agent as a callback containing the calculated results.

At the compressed data file is packaged e.g. by the cloud agent into a data packet. At the compressed file is assigned to a message queue based on at least one of a data type or a priority associated with the collected industrial data. The message queue comprises a queue defined on a cloud platform for storage and processing of data in accordance with an associated behavior assembly.

At a header is appended to the data packet indicating the message queue assigned at step . At the data packet including the header appended at step is sent to a cloud platform that maintains the assigned message queue. At the industrial data contained in the data packet is stored in the message queue on the cloud platform in accordance with the header. Once stored in the message queue the data can be processed on the cloud platform according to predefined processing definitions associated with the assigned message queue.

At a data packet containing industrial data and a header specifying the message queue is received at the cloud platform. At the industrial data contained in the data packet received at step is assigned to the message queue in accordance with the header. At the industrial data maintained in the message queue is processed on the cloud platform in accordance with the behavior assembly maintained in the customer specific manifest.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC can also communicate to and control various other devices such as I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and Ethernet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 8 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapters are provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removable affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

