---

title: Application-layer handoff of an access terminal from a first system of an access network to a second system of the access network during a communication session within a wireless communications system
abstract: Embodiments are directed to an application-layer handoff of an access terminal from a first system of an access network to a second system of the access network during a communication session within a wireless communications system. In an embodiment, the access terminal sets up a communication session on the first system. A multimedia client measures application-layer performance parameters for the communication session supported by the first system, and determines whether to handoff the communication session to a second system based at least in part on the application-layer performance parameters. If the multimedia client determines to handoff the communication session to the second system, the multimedia client initiates the handoff and the communication session is transitioned to the second system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344942&OS=09344942&RS=09344942
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09344942
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130125
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 693 099 filed Jan. 25 2010 entitled APPLICATION LAYER HANDOFF OF AN ACCESS TERMINAL FROM A FIRST SYSTEM OF AN ACCESS NETWORK TO A SECOND SYSTEM OF THE ACCESS NETWORK DURING A COMMUNICATION SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM which is by the inventors of the subject application is assigned to the assignee hereof and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to an application layer handoff of an access terminal from a first system of an access network to a second system of the access network during a communication session within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments are directed to an application layer handoff of an access terminal from a first system of an access network to a second system of the access network during a communication session within a wireless communications system. In an embodiment the access terminal sets up a communication session on the first system. A multimedia client measures application layer performance parameters for the communication session supported by the first system and determines whether to handoff the communication session to a second system based at least in part on the application layer performance parameters. If the multimedia client determines to handoff the communication session to the second system the multimedia client initiates the handoff and the communication session is transitioned to the second system.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between ATs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the ATs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal to access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Access terminals can be configured to connect to servers such as the application server through one of a plurality of systems or networks. For example a given access terminal can connect to the application server via a WiFi system e.g. 802.11a b etc. a CDMA2000 1x system a Wideband CDMA WCDMA system a FDMA system a TDMA system a OFDM system a long term evolution LTE system a BCMCS system by which the RAN transmits messages to multiple ATs within a given sector on a shared downlink channel such as a broadcast channel BCH a multimedia broadcast multicast services MBMS system and or a unicast 1x EV DO system by which the RAN transmits messages to a single AT on a downlink dedicated channel DCH or unicast channel. Accordingly the term system as used herein in the context of providing service to an access terminal through the RAN corresponds to any type of wireless technology through which the access terminal can establish a link to other network components such as the application server .

The access terminal can setup a communication session e.g. a push to talk PTT session a VoIP session a half duplex session a full duplex session etc. on a first system and can later switch from the first system to a second system without terminating the communication session. This type of switch can be referred to as an inter system handover or handoff. An inter system handoff of the access terminal between systems e.g. EV DO 1x BCMCS cdma2000 1X etc. should not be confused with a handoff of the access terminal from one serving area e.g. a cell sector subnet etc. to another serving area. In other words the access terminal can handoff from one type of system providing service to another type of system and the access terminal can also separately handoff from one service area for a particular system to another service area for the same system. Embodiments of the invention are generally directed to inter system handoff although this does not preclude a serving area handoff from occurring in conjunction with the embodiments described herein.

Handoffs of the access terminal from one system e.g. BCMCS to another system e.g. 1x unicast EV DO etc. are conventionally controlled at the AT with software that operates at a lower layer such as the physical layer. This software construct may be referred to as a lower layer controller and may be stored in memory and executed by the ASIC . In an example the lower layer controller can base handoff decisions on physical layer parameters such as frame error rate FER pilot signal strength detection of a new system etc. Generally this means the lower layer controller evaluates how well packets containing data are exchanged on a packet by packet or physical frame by frame basis without taking into account the higher level or application layer uses of the actual data. Furthermore inter system handoff generally requires complex signaling exchanges between the AT and the RAN in order to command the related measurements report the results and transmit handoff commands in a seamless manner.

Referring to AT sets up a communication session on the first system . For example if the communication session corresponds to a PTT session originated by AT a multimedia client A that is responsible for managing AT s PTT session at the application layer receives an indication that a user of AT has pushed a PTT button. The multimedia client A then requests the lower layer controller to schedule and send a call message to the application server . After obtaining or waiting for the requisite call resources the lower layer controller sends the call message to the RAN e.g. on a reverse link access channel or a R TCH which is forwarded to the application server which announces the session to one or more target ATs and then sends a floor grant to AT after at least one target AT accepts the announced session.

While the communication session is conducted on the first system the lower layer controller monitors one or more lower layer performance parameters associated with the communication session . For example the one or more lower layer performance parameters may include a frame error rate FER for packets associated with the communication session. Alternatively or additionally the lower layer controller may monitor a pilot signal strength of the first system.

Based on the monitored one or more lower layer performance parameters the lower layer controller determines whether to trigger a handoff of AT from the first system to the second system . For example if the lower layer controller is configured to make handoff decisions between systems for AT based on FER then the decision of may correspond to comparing a current FER or running average FER for AT s communication session on the first system with a threshold FER and then selectively triggering a handoff if the current or running average FER is higher than the threshold FER.

If the lower layer controller of AT determines not to handoff to the second system in the process returns to and AT continues to monitor the one or more lower layer performance parameters while the communication session continues on the first system. Otherwise if the lower layer controller of AT determines to handoff to the second system in the lower layer controller initiates or triggers the handoff of AT from the first system to the second system as is known in the art . For example if the first system is BCMCS and the second system is unicast EV DO then the handoff to the second system may include requesting a unicast TCH and de registering with the RAN for multicast support via BCMCS. The particular signaling that occurs to facilitate the handoff in is not shown because this signaling can be different for handoffs between different systems of the RAN e.g. EV DO to 1x BCMCS to unicast EV DO unicast EV DO to WiFi etc. . After completing the handoff that is initiated in AT continues the communication session on the second system if possible .

It should be noted that many systems do not support inter system lower layer signaling. Even if such systems do inter system handoff is conventionally restricted to from a restricted set of systems. For these reasons supporting the inter system handoff at the lower layer can require significant enhancements to the existing systems. On the other hand the application initiated inter system handoff can be implemented using existing layer signaling messages without requiring any system enhancements. Specific mechanisms for initiating the inter system handoff at the application layer will be elaborated later.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the process of can potentially permit AT to handoff to another system with superior physical layer performance characteristics in the event of physical layer performance degradation on a current system. In the absence of lower layer support it is possible that the degraded performance related to the communication session at the application level and the existence of an alternative system can trigger an application driven inter system handoff. For example the communication session may undergo a relatively high media error rate MER and or outage duration OD which occurs at the application level. If the application finds availability of an alternative second system the application may attempt to handoff to the second system. In another example if an access terminal is supported by a system with a higher charging rate than another available system e.g. the AT is connected to a cellular network and hands off to a roaming service area a free WiFi connection becomes available while the AT is connected to an in network cellular system that is costing a user thereof usage minutes etc. the user thereof may wish to handoff to the cheaper system. Accordingly embodiments of the invention are generally directed to making system handoff decisions based on one or more application layer criteria either in place of or in addition to lower layer e.g. physical layer considerations as in .

Referring to AT sets up a communication session on the first system . For example if the communication session corresponds to a PTT session originated by AT a multimedia client A that is responsible for managing AT s PTT session at the application layer receives an indication that a user of AT has pushed a PTT button. The multimedia client A then requests the lower layer controller to schedule and send a call message to the application server . After obtaining or waiting for the requisite call resources the lower layer controller sends the call message to the RAN e.g. on a reverse link access channel or a R TCH which is forwarded to the application server which announces the session to one or more target ATs and then sends a floor grant to AT after at least one target AT accepts the announced session.

While not illustrated in while the communication session is conducted on the first system the lower layer controller can monitor one or more lower layer performance parameters associated with the communication session as in and the lower layer controller can initiate handoffs based on the lower layer or physical layer performance of the different systems. However in performance at the physical layer need not be the only type of performance considered in determining whether to handoff from one system to another.

Accordingly the multimedia client A measures one or more application layer performance parameters for the communication system that is being supported by the first system of the RAN . For example the one or more application layer performance parameters can include i a media error rate MER of the communication session e.g. based on a success rate of audio frames if the communication session is an audio session based on a success rate of video and or audio frames if the communication session is a video conference ii an outage duration OD of the communication session e.g. a period of downlink inactivity due to successive media errors on the communication session iii a rate at which the first system is currently charging a user of AT for usage related to the communication session iv the multimedia client s A status as floor holder or listener if the communication corresponds to a half duplex PTT session v a priority of the user of AT e.g. such that a priority of a user of AT is evaluated and a handoff to a system with superior application layer performance is only performed if the user s priority is sufficient to permit using the target system for a current application and or vi any combination thereof.

Based on the monitored one or more application layer performance parameters the multimedia client A determines whether to trigger a handoff of AT from the first system to the second system . The determination of may not only be based upon the application layer performance parameter s for the communication session on the first system but can also be based on the availability of one or more other systems an expected application layer performance of any available systems etc. Examples of the application layer system handoff decision block of are given below with respect to .

If the multimedia client A of AT determines not to handoff to the second system in the process returns to and AT continues to monitor the one or more lower layer performance parameters while the communication session continues on the first system. Otherwise if the multimedia client A of AT determines to handoff to the second system in the multimedia client A initiates or triggers the handoff of AT from the first system to the second system as is known in the art . In general the signaling that occurs to facilitate the handoff in includes releasing the connection with the first system and establishing the connection with the second system. This is not shown explicitly in because this signaling can be different for different systems of the RAN e.g. EV DO to 1x BCMCS to unicast EV DO unicast EV DO to WiFi etc. . After completing the handoff that is initiated in AT continues the communication session on the second system if possible .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the multimedia client A has access to higher level information regarding the communication session as compared to the lower layer controller. As such the multimedia client A can potentially be in a better position to evaluate whether a system handoff is called for by taking into account performance of the communication session at the application layer and not merely the physical layer. More detailed implementation examples of the process of will now be provided with respect to .

Referring to AT sets up a communication session on the first system A as described above with respect to of . In A the multimedia client A determines location information associated with AT . The location information may correspond to a base station currently serving AT a geographic coordinate of AT e.g. a GPS coordinate and or any other manner of identifying AT s location. In A the multimedia client A compares AT s location information with a defined location region of the system . In an example the defined location region corresponds to a list of sectors such that if AT s current sector from A is in the list of sectors the multimedia client A can infer whether a particular system e.g. unicast EV DO BCMCS etc. is available and or permitted for use by AT . Defined location regions and methodologies for determining location information is described in more detail within co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 163 834 entitled REGULATING THE SCOPE OF SERVICE GEOGRAPHICALLY IN WIRELESS NETWORKS filed on Mar. 26 2009 assigned to the same assignee of the subject application and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Accordingly in the example of the one or more measured application layer performance parameters includes some type of location information associated with AT . If the location comparison of A indicates that AT is inside of or outside of the defined location region the multimedia client A may determine whether to attempt a handoff to another system. For example the defined location region may indicate sectors that are configured to support AT s communication session on the first system such that if AT now determines itself to be outside of the defined location region the multimedia client A knows that a handoff to another system needs to be made or else the communication session is going to be dropped. In another example the defined location region may indicate sectors where a more desirable system second system than the first system is available for supporting AT s communication session. In a further example the first system may correspond to BCMCS for supporting a group communication session via IP multicasting protocols within the EV DO network of the RAN and the second system may correspond to unicast EV DO for supporting the group communication session via IP unicasting protocols within the EV DO network of the RAN or vice versa .

Based on the relationship between AT s location information from A and the defined location region the multimedia client A either continues to monitor the location of AT during the communication session on the first system and returns to A or else advances to A. In A AT determines whether a second system is available for supporting AT s communication session with a level of application layer performance expected to be higher than the first system. In an example the presence of the second system can be inferred from AT s relationship to the defined location region. If no second system is determined to be available for supporting AT s communication session in A the process returns to A and AT continues to monitor AT s location during the communication session on the first system. Otherwise if the second system associated with a higher expected level of application layer performance is determined to be available in A the multimedia client A initiates or triggers the handoff of AT from the first system to the second system as is known in the art A. After completing the handoff that is initiated in A AT continues the communication session on the second system if possible A. Accordingly the embodiment of illustrates one manner by which location of an access terminal can be used to determine when to perform inter system handoffs of the access terminal.

Referring to each time AT re determines its location of AT in A the decision logic associated with blocks A and A may use AT s newly acquired location to determine whether or not to perform an inter system handoff. In an example each iteration of AT determining its location can be timer based i.e. performed at a given period or event based or a combination thereof. In an example events that may trigger AT to determine its location may include a media error rate MER for the communication session on a current system rising above a threshold when AT hands off to a new cell or sector e.g. such as when a Broadcast Multicast Service BCMCS flow status reported by AT becoming unavailable as the AT enters a sector that does not broadcast the desired BCMCS flow and or any other potential event that has the potential to affect system performance and or availability.

Referring to AT sets up a communication session on the first system B as described above with respect to of . In B the multimedia client A monitors the MER for the communication session on the first system. For example the monitored MER may correspond to a time averaged indication of the number of errors experienced by the multimedia client A. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the MER differs from the FER because the FER is measured at the physical layer whereas the MER is measured at the application layer. Thus the MER is based on whether errors are experienced in the actual media being played by the multimedia client A on AT for example whereas the FER is based on frame decoding errors of individual transport packets.

After determining the MER for the communication session on the first system in B the multimedia client A compare AT s MER with an MER threshold B. If AT s MER is determined to be lower than the MER threshold in B the process returns to B and the multimedia client A continues to monitor the MER during the communication session on the first system. Otherwise if AT s MER is determined to be greater than or equal to the MER threshold in B AT determines whether a second system is available for supporting AT s communication session with a level of application layer performance expected to be higher than the first system B. In the example of this means a system that is expected to provide a MER that is lower than the MER threshold or at least lower than the MER associated with the first system for AT s communication session.

If no second system is determined to be available for supporting AT s communication session in B the process returns to B and AT continues to monitor the MER during the communication session on the first system. Otherwise if the second system associated with a higher expected level of application layer performance is determined to be available in B the multimedia client A initiates or triggers the handoff of AT from the first system to the second system as is known in the art B. After completing the handoff that is initiated in B AT continues the communication session on the second system if possible B. Accordingly the embodiment of illustrates one manner by which MER can be used to determine when to perform inter system handoffs of the access terminal.

Referring to AT sets up a communication session on the first system C as described above with respect to of . In C the multimedia client A monitors the OD for the communication session on the first system. For example the monitored OD may correspond to a period during which media associated with the communication session is not received from the first system of the RAN . In a further example the OD may correspond to a timer that is reset after each successful application layer media frame is output by multimedia client A e.g. a video frame an audio frame etc. .

After determining the OD for the communication session on the first system in C the multimedia client A compare AT s OD with an OD threshold C. If AT s OD is determined to be lower than the OD threshold in C the process returns to C and the multimedia client A continues to monitor the OD during the communication session on the first system. Otherwise if AT s OD is determined to be greater than or equal to the OD threshold in C AT determines whether a second system is available for supporting AT s communication session with a level of application layer performance expected to be higher than the first system C. In the example of this means a system that is expected to provide an OD that is lower than the OD threshold or at least lower than the OD associated with the first system for AT s communication session.

If no second system is determined to be available for supporting AT s communication session in C the process returns to C and AT continues to monitor the OD during the communication session on the first system. Otherwise if the second system associated with a higher expected level of application layer performance is determined to be available in C the multimedia client A initiates or triggers the handoff of AT from the first system to the second system as is known in the art C. After completing the handoff that is initiated in C AT continues the communication session on the second system if possible C. Accordingly the embodiment of illustrates one manner by which OD can be used to determine when to perform inter system handoffs of the access terminal.

Referring to AT sets up a communication session on the first system D as described above with respect to of . In D the multimedia client A monitors the current rate at which the subscriber using AT is being charged for service related for the communication session on the first system. For example if the first system corresponds to the subscriber s home WiFi network which is configured to provide unlimited service for a fixed rate then the charging rate for AT s communication session on the first system may be interpreted as zero. In another example if the first system corresponds to the subscriber s 1x cellular provider which is configured to provide a certain number of minutes and afterwards charge a fee per minute of usage the charging rate for AT s communication session on the first system may be interpreted as either a monetary equivalent of a minute of usage or the fee per minute dependent on how much usage the subscriber has incurred. As will be appreciated different metering plans associated with system connectivity mean that the monitored charging rate of D can correspond to any of various manners by which subscribers are charged for service.

After determining the charging rate for the communication session on the first system in D the multimedia client A compare AT s charging rate with a charging rate threshold D. If AT s charging rate is determined to be lower than the charging rate threshold in D the process returns to D and the multimedia client A continues to monitor the charging rate during the communication session on the first system. Otherwise if AT s charging rate is determined to be greater than or equal to the charging rate threshold in D AT determines whether a second system is available for supporting AT s communication session with a level of application layer performance expected to be higher than the first system D. In the example of this means a system that is expected to provide a charging rate that is lower than the charging rate threshold or at least lower than the charging rate associated with the first system for AT s communication session. For example if the second system is a BCMCS system that is broadcasting a certain multicast session that the AT has been monitoring in the first system using a dedicated channel e.g. in EV DO or 1x the charging rate of the second system will be cheaper. In an example the charging rate threshold need not actually be used and the process of can rather advance directly to where AT s current charging rate is simply compared against the charging rate s of one or more other available systems.

If no second system is determined to be available for supporting AT s communication session in D the process returns to D and AT continues to monitor the charging rate during the communication session on the first system. Otherwise if the second system associated with a higher expected level of application layer performance is determined to be available in D the multimedia client A initiates or triggers the handoff of AT from the first system to the second system as is known in the art D. After completing the handoff that is initiated in D AT continues the communication session on the second system if possible D. Accordingly the embodiment of illustrates one manner by which charging rates can be used to determine when to perform inter system handoffs of the access terminal.

In the embodiments of handoffs between a first system and a second system are described as being based on different application layer performance parameters. While each of are described with respect to one particular application layer performance parameter it will be appreciated that multiple application layer performance parameters can be considered with regard to any system handoff decision at AT . For example two or more of OD MER location and or a current charging rate may be considered in a decision with regard to whether to handoff to another system with a network operator or user of AT establishing which application layer performance parameter has priority over other parameters. Thus if any of the designated application layer performance parameters degrades during AT s communication session a handoff to another system may potentially be triggered so long as superior performance is expected at least with the regard to the degraded parameter e.g. with at least a threshold amount of performance expected for each other parameter of equal or higher priority than the degraded parameter .

Further are each described with respect to two particular systems namely AT s current system first system and a prospective system second system under consideration for a potential handoff. However it is possible that multiple systems are available for handoff from the first system. In this case each available system may be evaluated during a handoff decision as described below with respect to .

Referring to AT sets up a communication session on the first system E as described above with respect to of . In E the multimedia client A monitors one or more application layer performance parameters for AT s communication session on the first system e.g. OD MER charging rate location any combination thereof etc. . After determining or measuring the one or more application layer performance parameters for AT s communication session on the first system the multimedia client A determines whether the determined parameters indicate that performance on the first system is sufficient for AT s communication session E. If the first system is determined by the multimedia client A to provide adequate performance the process returns to E and AT continues to monitor the application layer performance parameters while the communication session continues on the first system. Otherwise if the first system is determined by the multimedia client A not to provide adequate performance the multimedia client A determines an expectation of performance for AT s communication session on each of a plurality of systems . . . N E. For example if the application layer performance parameters include a charging rate for the communication session the multimedia client A can determine how much the subscriber using AT would be charged on each of systems . . . N. In another example if the application layer performance parameters include AT s location the multimedia client A can determine which of systems . . . n are available and or a degree of performance based on AT s location and so on.

In E the multimedia client A determines a system among systems . . . N associated with a highest performance expectation. In an example it is possible that a given system among systems . . . N has a higher performance expectation for one parameter and a lower performance expectation for another parameter. In this case each performance parameter can be assigned a weight e.g. as in an objective function and a combined performance valuation can be computed with the highest combined performance valuation corresponding to the system that is overall expected to provide a highest level of performance.

Next in E the multimedia client A determines whether the highest rated system from E is expected to provide better performance than the first system that AT is currently using for support of its communication session. If the highest rated system among systems . . . N is not expected to provide better performance than the first system the process returns to E and AT continues to monitor the application layer performance parameters while the communication session continues on the first system. Otherwise if the highest rated system among systems . . . N is expected to provide better performance than the first system the multimedia client A initiates or triggers the handoff of AT from the first system to the highest rated system among systems . . . N as is known in the art E. After completing the handoff that is initiated in E AT continues the communication session on its new system if possible E.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

