---

title: Phosphorescent meso-unsubstituted metallo-tetrabenzoporphyrin probe molecules for measuring oxygen and imaging methods
abstract: Oxygen levels in biological tissue or systems can be measured by the phosphorescence quenching method using phosphorescent porphyrin probes, also referred to as a dendritic oxygen probes, with controllable quenching parameters and defined biodistributions. Provided are a “next generation” of oxygen sensors with substantially improved phosphorescence emission for better imaging capabilities, ease of use, increasing the quantum efficiency (phosphorescence intensity) and extending their range of applicability including constructing a class of oxygen sensors for making measurements in organic media. In addition, provided are methods for synthesizing new porphyrin constructs in which the porphyrin is made less flexible and more planar, changing with decrease internal quenching, and thereby increasing the phosphorescence emission used for oxygen sensing. Additional methods are provided for structurally modifying the dendrimer used to encapsulate the porphyrin phosphor to provide internal quenching of singlet oxygen molecules formed during oxygen measurements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09556213&OS=09556213&RS=09556213
owner: 
number: 09556213
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130227
---
The present invention claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 603 668 filed on Feb. 27 2012 which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

This invention was supported in part by funds from the U.S. Government National Institutes of Health Grant No. HL0812273 R01EB007279 and the U.S. Government may therefore have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to highly accurate and versatile optical method for oxygen measurement particularly useful for applications in living human and animal tissue and more particularly to novel phosphorescent probe molecules that possess brighter signal well defined chemical composition and can potentially be used in clinics.

The reliable and accurate measurement of oxygen supply in mammalian tissue is important to ensure that the oxygen supply is adequate. The circulatory system employs specialized oxygen carrying protein molecules in red blood cells to deliver oxygen from the lungs throughout the body. Once dissociated from hemoglobin oxygen is delivered to its consumption sites in cells by diffusion. It is the measurement of this dissolved unbound oxygen that is most critical for quantifying tissue physiological status. The phosphorescence quenching method underpinning this patent application is unique in its ability to accomplish such a measurement. This method is based on use of special phosphorescent probe molecules which report on oxygen concentration in the environment with high specificity and accuracy.

Measurements of oxygen by phosphorescence quenching using phosphorescent probes not only provide measurement of oxygen consumption by the tissue but also allow evaluation of tissue diseased states. Oxygen is a key metabolite and tissue hypoxia is a critical parameter with respect to various tissue pathologies such as retinal diseases Berkowitz et al. 40 2100 2105 1999 Linsenmeier et al. 39 1647 1657 1998 brain abnormalities Vannucci et al. 207 3149 3154 2004 Brunel et al. 31 123 137 2004 Johnston et al. 8 212 220 2002 and cancer Evans et al. 98 1503 1510 2005 . Differing oxygen levels in tissues can be indicative of tissue structure abnormalities defects whether caused externally or by genetic manifestations resulting from disease.

Imaging tissue oxygen in vivo presents a challenging and important problem. Nevertheless currently developing imaging technologies for mapping tissue oxygenation Rajendran et al. 43 169 187 2005 e.g. NMR EPR Subramanian et al. 17 263 294 2004 PET Piert et al. 46 106 113 2005 Apisarnthanarax et al. 163 1 25 2005 near infrared tomographic techniques Fenton et al. 79 464 471 1999 Liu et al. 39 5231 5243 2000 etc Ballinger 31 321 329 2001 Foo et al. 6 291 305 2004 suffer from many deficiencies including invasiveness low spatial and or temporal resolution lack of absolute calibration poor specificity etc. and remain yet to be adequately developed.

The phosphorescence quenching method Vanderkooi et al. 262 5476 5483 1987 Wilson Vinogradov In . Mycek M A Pogue B W eds. Marcel Dekker New York 2003. Ch. 17 is superior in its ability to directly detect oxygen in tissue. A detailed summary is presented by Vinogradov Wilson 2012 Porphyrin dendrimers as biological oxygen sensors In Capagna Ceroni Eds. Wiley New York following the effective filing date of this invention. When a phosphorescent probe is dissolved in the blood and excited using appropriate illumination its phosphorescence lifetime and intensity become robust indicators of oxygen concentration in the environment. Phosphorescence quenching is exquisitely sensitive and selective to oxygen possesses excellent temporal resolution and can be implemented for high resolution hypoxia imaging in 2D Rumsey et al. 241 1649 1652 1988 Vinogradov et al. 70 1609 1617 1996 Shonat et al. 31 1084 1096 2003 .

Efforts to develop 3D near infrared tomographic modality include Soloviev et al. 42 113 2003 Soloviev et al. 43 564 2004 Apreleva et al. 31 1082 2006 Apreleva et al. 45 8547 2006 Apreleva et al. 33 782 2008 and recent clinically relevant developments of Cerenkov radiation induced phosphorescence Zhang et al. 3 2381 2012 . But highly accurate and versatile methods for measuring oxygen remain to be further developed.

For phosphorescent compounds to be suitable for use as a phosphorescent oxygen probe aka phosphor or oxyphor in determination of tissue oxygenation it is desirable that the compounds have 1 high absorbance in the near infrared region of the spectrum where natural chromophores of tissue such as hemoglobin or myoglobin have only very weak absorption 2 phosphorescence with high quantum yields at room temperature preferably greater than 0.02 and 3 suitable lifetimes preferably from about 0.1 to about 1 msec.

A new class of phosphors suitable for oxygen measurement was previously reported in Vinogradov and Wilson 2 103 111 1995 and in U.S. Pat. No. 4 947 850 Method and Apparatus for Imaging an Internal Body Portion of a Host Animal by Vanderkooi and Wilson and U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 865 Phosphorescent Dendritic Macromolecular Compounds for Imaging Tissue Oxygen by Vinogradov and Wilson which are incorporated herein by reference. In the general the phosphorescent probes for oxygen measurements comprise three functional parts 1 phosphorescent core 2 encapsulating and protecting ligands and 3 the hydrophilic outer layer which is usually made of monomethyloligoethyleneglycol or simply polyethyleneglycol PEG residues. Parts and comprise the so called immediate surrounding environment of the phosphorescent chromophore.

The functions of the three parts are as follows a phosphorescent core provides optical signal phosphorescence inducible by red near infrared excitation sources and responsive to changes in the partial pressure of oxygen pO b encapsulating ligands allow tuning of the core accessibility to oxygen to optimize probe s sensitivity in the physiological pOrange and c outer layer provides solubility and isolates the probe from interactions with endogenous biological species proteins nucleic acids membranes etc in order to maintain the calibration constants for quantitative pOmeasurements in biological environments.

Both aforementioned patents teach compounds based on complexes of metals such as Pd and Pt with porphyrins and aromatically t extended porphyrins such as for example tetrabenzoporphyrin tetranaphthaloporphyrin tetraanthraporphrin and various derivatives thereof which play the role of phosphorescent cores part 1 . These complexes possess bright room temperature phosphorescence and Pd and Pt complexes of tetrabenzoporphyrins and tetranaphthaloporphyrins are especially desirable because they show strong light absorption in the near IR region 610 650 nm and 700 720 nm respectively where tissue is practically transparent. Moreover Pd tetrabenzoporphyrins PdTBP and their derivatives have been shown to have long lived phosphorescence 250 sec with quantum yields of 0.08 0.10 . These values have been later re measured against improved fluorescence standards used throughout the remainder of this spefication and shown to be 0.0015 0.04 see Esipova et al 83 8756 published on line Oct. 11 2011 .

Generally the surrounding environment determines properties of the phosphorescent probe with respect to oxygen measurement including water solubility toxicity oxygen quenching constant sensitivity of the measurements to chemically active components of tissue and ease of excretion of the probe from the body through the kidney. It is also desirable to design the surrounding environment such that it comprises an inert globular structure around the phosphor through which only small uncharged molecules i.e. oxygen can diffuse into the close vicinity of the phosphorescent core for efficient quenching.

The 865 patent above teaches that the optimal surrounding environment for the phosphorescent core is made of dendrons as encapsulating ligands part 2 and polyethyleneglycols or oligoethyleneglycols as the outer layer of the probe part 3 . Note that together the encapsulating dendrons are said to comprise a dendrimer. Accordingly the corresponding phosphorescent probes are termed dendritic. Dendritic probes so far have shown to be superior phosphors for oxygen measurements in biological systems. Many laboratories around the world currently use these molecules for oxygen measurements in the blood tissue interstitial space various organs and with application of different modes of the phosphorescence quenching method see above . See e.g. Sakadzic et al. 7 755 2010 Devor et al. 31 13676 2011 Lecoq et a 17 893 2011 and since the effective filing date of this application Parpaleix et al. 19 241 246 2013 which have capitalized on the use of the dendritic oxygen probes to decipher brain energy metabolism in the field of neuroscience. Thus the prior and present art have clearly established tremendous value of dendritic oxygen probes warranting their further improvement and optimization.

It has therefore been an ongoing need in the art to further improve on the structure of dendritic phosphorescent probes by altering and improving their chemical structure thereby providing a next generation of oxygen sensors with substantially improved phosphorescence emission for better imaging capabilities ease of use and range of applicability. In addition some of the new molecules in this disclosure provide measurements of oxygen not only in an aqueous environment but also in liquid organic media such as organic solvents and or oils.

The present invention provides phosphors comprising a new class of porphyrin based oxyphors wherein the porphyrin is made less flexible and more planar two modifications that the inventors have shown significantly 5 10 fold increases the quantum yield over the prior art probes and therefore serve as the bases for significantly improved oxygen sensors. These structurally improved extended porphyrins are then complexed with dendrimers to surround the phosphorescent core by supramolecular structures which are designed to be highly soluble in either water based media or in liquid organic media such as organic solvents and or oils. They provide additional sought after characteristics of phosphorescent probes such as long lived phosphorescence and high quantum yields.

In Oxyphors R4 and G4 and in all prior art in the inventor s laboratories the porphyrin probes have all been meso tetra aryl substituted porphyrins having four aryl rings radiating out of the metalloporphyrin structure which by example have had Pt or Pd cores. To these rings dendrons are attached forming the dendrimer. By comparison it is an object of the present invention to provide di aryl porphyrins wherein the porphyrin structure is unique in that the construct has only two aryl rings which are always opposite to one another e.g. 5 15 diaryl substituted tetrabenzoporphyrins TBPs or have no meso aryl rings at all e.g. Pd meso unsubstituted porphyrins . This change in the porphyrin structure produces a significant 5 10 fold increase in the phosphorescence quantum yield 0.2 0.4 higher at zero oxygen and extends triplet state lifetimes to 60 700 s to provide higher oxygen sensitivity than previous models. Structures having fewer aryls would seem to have been easier to synthesize but that is a deceptive assumption since building tetraarylporphyrins is significantly easier. But the formulation and use of di arylporphyrins and meso unsubstituted porphyrins result in significantly improved oxygen sensors.

It is a second object of the invention to provide an improved process for attaching dendrons to the porphyrin. The method appears simple but in fact it has not been done before. The improved process first attaches extension arms meaning e.g. aminobutyrate linkers to the aryl rings on the porphyrins and then dendrons are attached to the ends of the attached extension arms. In the prior art the groups to which dendrons are attached on the aryl rings of the porphyrin directly are positioned too close to each other as a result bulky dendrons interfere with each other and the whole linking reaction becomes inefficient. However when extension arms are attached before the dendrons are added the points of dendron attachment are sufficiently separated in space and thus facilitate the linking reaction.

It is a third object of the invention to increase excitation cross sections of the probe using intramolecular F rster type resonance energy transfer FRET by the use of antenna chromophores in the porphyrin dendrimer structure. The antenna chromophores capture excitation photons and transfer the energy to the porphyrin by way of FRET. The remaining fluorescent signal well separated spectrally from the phosphorescence is available for ratiometric oxygen detection enabling the use of several available laser bands and effectively making the probes at least 5 to at least 7 to as much as 10 brighter without increasing the probes phototoxicity.

It is a fourth object of the invention to provide dendritic phosphorescent probes suitable for oxygen measurements in selectable either aqueous or liquid organic media e.g. oils saturated hydrocarbons aromatic mineral oils and the like. By adding a three dimensional supramolecular hydrophobic outer layer to the termini of the dendrimers the entire molecule remains folded but becomes in highly soluble in certain organic solvents thus for the first time enabling oxygen measurements in such organic solvents.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description examples and figures which follow all of which are intended to be for illustrative purposes only and not intended in any way to limit the invention and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art on examination of the following or may be learned by practice of the invention.

The present invention provides highly efficient and highly soluble phosphorescent probes suitable for measurements of oxygen in tissue of animals and humans. Inventive probes are surrounded by an inert globular structure an example of which is derivatized PdTBP Pd tetrabenzoporphyrins surrounded by three dimensional supramolecular structure known as a dendrimer which is well understood in the field.

Oxygen levels in biological systems can thus be measured by the phosphorescence quenching method using probes with controllable quenching parameters and defined biodistributions. A general approach is provided to the construction of phosphorescent nanosensors with tunable spectral characteristics variable degrees of quenching and a high selectivity for oxygen that are soluble in aqueous or organic solvents e.g. benzene toluene hexane octane tetrahydrofurane mineral oil and the like permitting phosphorescence measurements throughout the entire ambient oxygen range pO 0 160 mm Hg. The probes are based on bright phosphorescent Pt and Pd complexes of porphyrins and symmetrically extended porphyrins tetrabenzoporphyrins and tetranaphthoporphyrins .

In certain embodiments of the invention extension of the core macrocycle provides tuning of the spectral parameters of the probes in order to meet the requirements of a particular imaging application e.g. oxygen tomography versus planar microscopic imaging . Metalloporphyrins are encapsulated into poly arylglycine dendrimers which fold in aqueous environments and create diffusion barriers for oxygen making it possible to regulate the sensitivity and the dynamic range of the method. The periphery of the dendrimers is modified with poly ethylene glycol residues which enhance the probe s solubility diminish toxicity and help prevent interactions of the probes with the biological environment. The probe s parameters were measured under physiological conditions and the probes were shown to be unaffected by the presence of biomacromolecules.

The performance of the probes was demonstrated in applications including in vivo microscopy of vascular pOin the rat brain.

Phosphorescence quenching relies on the ability of molecular oxygen which is a triplet molecule in the ground state OX to react with molecules in their excited states quenching their luminescence. Collisional quenching is much less probable on the time scale of singlet excited states nanoseconds than of triplet states microseconds to milliseconds making phosphorescence significantly more sensitive to oxygen than fluorescence. Assuming a large excess of oxygen relative to the concentration of triplet emitters a condition typically met in biological environments the dependence of the phosphorescence intensity and lifetime on oxygen concentration follows the Stem Volmer relationship 1 O Equation 1 

where I and are the phosphorescence intensity and the lifetime at oxygen concentration O and in the absence of oxygen I and Kis the Stem Volmer quenching constant.

In practice using lifetime as the analytical signal for O is more accurate because the lifetime is independent of the probe distribution and of any other chromophores present in the biological system. where is the phosphorescence lifetime at oxygen concentration at a specific oxygen pressure pO is the phosphorescence lifetime in the absence of oxygen pO 0 and k is the Stem Volmer quenching constant. See Lebedev et al. 1 1292 2009 Finikova et al. 9 1673 2008 Sakad et al. 7 755 2010 Lecoq et al. 17 893 2011 Vinogradov Wilson In Campagna Ceroni Puntoriero Eds. Wiley 2012.

Among the attractive features of the phosphorescence quenching technique are its high specificity submillisecond temporal response high sensitivity and relative simplicity of instrumentation. When soluble probes are used calibration of the method is absolute in a sense that the probes quenching parameters must be determined only once and then they may be used thereafter for measurements under similar conditions.

It is customary to express oxygen content in the units of pressure mm Hg rather than concentration M since in the majority of biological experiments partial pressure of oxygen pO is the actually controlled experimental parameter. At 298 K and the air pressure of 760 mm Hg oxygen fraction in the air is 21 or 159.6 mm Hg air equilibrated aqueous solutions are 252 M in O Fogg et al. . Wiley New York 2001 . However for simplicity the pressure of water vapor above the solution is neglected although at higher temperatures it will rise and consequently the partial pressure of oxygen pO will decrease. This assumes that the Henry s law holds in the physiological range of oxygen concentration O pO were is the oxygen solubility coefficient M mm Hg for the bulk phase. Considering K k where kis the bimolecular rate constant for the quenching reaction Equation 1 can be rewritten as 1 1 O Equation 2 

where k kand has the units of mm Hgs. Equation 2 contains two parameters specific to the molecule of the probe constant kand lifetime . Their interplay defines the sensitivity and the dynamic range of the method. For analytical purposes it is desirable that the measurement parameter which is the phosphorescence lifetime herein spans the largest possible interval of values throughout the range of analyte concentrations assuring highest possible measurement resolution. To quantify the dynamic range of lifetimes parameter R is used wherein pO 0 mm Hg and pO 159.6 mm Hg are the maximal and the minimal values of the phosphorescence lifetimes in physiological experiments. Another important parameter is the signal to noise ratio SNR which is obviously higher for probes with larger emission quantum yields assuming the same emission wavelengths .

Pt and Pd porphyrins are typically used as phosphorescent chromophores for oxygen measurements in biological systems vide infra . Triplet lifetimes of Pd porphyrins in deoxygenated solutions at ambient temperatures are in the range of hundreds of microseconds abbreviations have their normal meaning herein but microseconds are specifically referred to s or sec herein and their phosphorescence quantum yields in the absence of oxygen NO are typically 0.05 0.1. Eastwood et al. 35 359 1970 . For Pt porphyrins the corresponding values are tens of microseconds and 0.10 0.25 Id. Kim et al. 106 4015 1984 respectively. Constants kfor unprotected metalloporphyrins in aqueous solutions are 3 000 mm Hgs. To illustrate how quenching constants k and lifetimes affect oxygen measurements consider two probes PdP and PtP representing some arbitrary Pd and Pt porphyrins PdP 500 s PtP 50 s PdP 0.05 PtP 0.10 where subscript 0 indicates pO 0 mm Hg.

When the quenching constant is high e.g. k 3 000 mm Hgs the lifetime of PdP decreases from 500 s to 2.1 s resulting in a large dynamic range R 0.996 . However between about 20 mm Hg and air saturation the lifetime changes by no more than 3 of the total value between 16 s and 2.1 s. Moreover already at 10 mm Hg. the probe s quantum yield becomes extremely low 

Due to its higher quantum yield and shorter probe PtP can be used up to about 50 mm Hg r 5.9 s but above that limit its lifetime also changes very weakly by no more than 3 s. The lifetime dynamic range of PtP R 0.96 is not very different from that of PdP but if the quenching constant were to be reduced or decrease which is inevitable upon binding of the probe to proteins in vivo vide infra this probe would become insensitive to changes in oxygenation.

For higher sensitivity probes with a greater are preferred but only if their phosphorescence changes gradually instead of being highly quenched already at very low oxygen concentrations. Such adjustment of sensitivity can be achieved by varying constants k. Overall it is clear that control over the values of the quenching constants and the ability to keep them unaltered in measurement environments is the key to accurate oxygen measurements. All comparative terms e.g. higher lower increased decreased enhanced reduced faster slower etc assume their accepted standard dictionary meanings herein preferable as compared to a stated molecule probe compound or the like.

Phosphorescence quenching by oxygen typically occurs much faster than the diffusion of the reactants and formation of encounter complexes and in the majority of cases diffusion can be considered the rate limiting step for oxygen quenching reaction. Turro University Science Books Sausalito Calif. 1991 . By altering oxygen diffusion coefficients in the local vicinity of the phosphorescent chromophores constants kcan be regulated. Such tuning can be achieved by means of dendritic encapsulation.

Additional requirements for phosphorescent probes for medical imaging of oxygen include lack of toxicity and preferably excretability from the blood upon completion of imaging. Globular uncharged molecules with molecular weights up to about 15 kDa are usually excretable by the kidney Caliceti et al. 55 1261 1277 2003 . If a probe satisfies this criterion and remains confined to the intravascular space does not diffuse out of the blood vessels it is likely to be removed from the blood by the kidney mediated dialysis and the possibility of long term toxicity effects can be avoided. Of course for animal studies excretability is not as stringent a requirement whereas confinement to a particular tissue compartment intravascular interstitial or intracellular can be very important. In that case probes of larger sizes may become advantageous.

This leads to a molecular design comprising a bright phosphorescent chromophore with sufficiently long triplet lifetime and a protective jacket whose purpose is to constrain oxygen diffusion in the local environment of the chromophore. The dendrimer itself must be hydrophobic to permit it to fold or collapse in polar solvents such as water around the porphyrin. Otherwise if it were hydrophilic it would spread branches freely and create no effective barrier for oxygen diffusion to the porphyrin. Importantly hydrophobic does not necessarily mean lipophilic. In other words a compound that does not like water like the arylglycine AG dendrimers defined below does not mean that it always likes every possible type of organic media. For example the inventors arylglycine dendrimers fold both in water and in many organic solvents such as but not limited to tetrahydrofuran THF oils hexanes and the like. However in other organic solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF or dimethylsulfoxide DMSO they would spread branches and would not fold. As a result such dendrimers would not provide a barrier for oxygen in DMF and DMSO but they would do so in water THF oils alkanes etc.

The periphery of the probe must be hydrophilic and inert in order to prevent interactions with components of the biological system e.g. bio macromolecules cellular membranes . The overall size of the molecule should be large enough to prevent probe leakage through the vascular walls but yet small enough to allow removal through the kidney if excretability is desired. Alternatively the periphery of the probe must be hydrophopbic if the measurement is to be conducted in oils alkanes etc.

A novelty of the present invention lies in making the folded molecules soluble. That is accomplished by adding an outer layer to the dendrimer and it is the outer layer that then takes the probe into solution even when the dendrimer itself is folded and poorly soluble. Consequently in the present invention to dissolve a folded dendrimer in water a hydrophilic outer layer of polyethyleneglycols PEG is added to permit dissolution but when e.g. oils or long alkyl chains are added to the outer layer the dendrimer is then soluble in liquid organic compounds.

Overall the problem of keeping the diffusional accessibility of the phosphorescent chromophore to oxygen in biological environments constant throughout the studied object and the calibration unchanging is by far the biggest challenge in the design of phosphorescent oxygen probes. Moreover this problem is inherent in all methods relying on kinetics of oxygen diffusion. To overcome this difficulty design of a molecular oxygen sensor entails construction of a well defined microenvironment around the phosphorescent chromophore in order to isolate it from interactions with other molecules except for oxygen. Dendritic encapsulation Hecht Frechet 40 74 2001 Gorman Smith 122 9342 2000 arguably provides one of the most straightforward ways to construct monodisperse well defined molecular jackets around luminescent chromophores Balzani et al. Functional and Hyperbranched Building Blocks 228 159 2003 Ceroni et al. 30 453 2005 .

The key photophysical properties required for biological oxygen sensing are strong absorption preferably in the near infra red region NIR of the spectrum near infrared region of tissue is approximately 600 nm to 1000 nm but for excitation purposes from 600 or 620 to 900 or 1000 nm is appropriate to minimize the interference by the natural tissue chromophores e.g. heme containing proteins carotenoids and strong long lived phosphorescence in solutions at ambient temperatures. Very few chromophores possess such properties. Among them metalloporphyrins emit from states and exhibit significantly longer triplet lifetimes Eastwood et al. 35 359 1970 thus possessing much higher intrinsic sensitivity to oxygen.

Regular meso tetraarylated Pt and Pd porphyrins with various peripheral substituents can be readily synthesized via e.g. the Lindsey Lindsey et al 52 827 1987 or Senge Senge 38 733 2005 methods. Thermodynamic stabilities of these complexes are extremely high Buehler Ch. 5 in Smith K. M. Ed. Elsevier 1975 New York entirely precluding release of free metal ions into biological environments and associated toxicity. The major drawback of using regular Pt and Pd porphyrins for in vivo applications is that their absorption bands the so called Q bands are positioned in the visible range 520 530 nm 20 000 Mcm thus overlapping with absorption of naturally occurring chromophores. Still absorption in the visible region may be useful in planar wide field phosphorescence imaging where less diffuse nature of excitation serves to improve spatial resolution. In addition absorption near 500 nm overlaps with emission of many two photon 2P chromophores which is useful in construction of FRET enhanced probes for two photon oxygen microscopy vide infra Finikova et al. 9 1673 2008 .

Many porphyrinoids possess near infrared absorption bands however very few have characteristics appropriate for oxygen sensing Vinogradov Wilson 103 1995 . The most useful today are derivatives of so called laterally extended or expanded porphyrins. Lateral extension of Pt and Pd porphyrins by annealing their pyrrole residues with external aromatic rings results in chromophores with dramatically red shifted absorption bands and strong room temperature phosphorescence Ibid Tsvirko et al. 34 1094 1973 Rozhkov et al. 42 4253 2003 . Spectra of Pt analogs are very similar in shape but are blue shifted by 10 15 nm as compared to those of Pd counterparts.

An important feature of all porphyrin based probes is their very large separation between the absorption and phosphorescence achievable via excitation at the Soret bands e.g. 9329 cmfor Pd porphyrins . Efficient S Sinternal conversion Tripathy et al. 112 5824 2008 combined with extremely high extinction coefficients of S Stransitions 3 10Mcm makes this pathway superior to the direct S Sexcitation in those cases when near UV radiation can be sustained by the biological object.

Until recently synthesis of extended porphyrins presented a challenging problem. All synthetic methods were based on high temperature condensations between phthalimide or naphthalimide and arylacetic acids or similar donors of benzo and phenyl groups Kopranenkov et al. . 51 2165 1981 Edwards et al. 98 7638 1976 Ichimura et al. 176 31 1990 . The harsh conditions of condensation melting at 300 400 C. allowed for only a few inert substituents such as alkyl groups or halogens Kopranenkov et al. 773 1988 to be introduced into the porphyrin macrocycle. In addition low yields and complex inseparable mixtures of products made this approach impractical.

The newly emerged approaches to extended porphyrins rely on the Barton Zard methodology Barton et al. 46 7587 1990 for synthesis of porphyrinogenic pyrroles which give rise to precursor porphyrins requiring final aromatization. Two methods have been developed into practical synthetic schemes one making use of retro Diels Alder reaction Ito et al. 1661 1998 Ito et al. 893 2000 another relying on simple and efficient oxidative aromatization strategy Finikova et al. 261 2001 Finikova et al. 69 522 2004 . The latter method is being used today to synthesize tetrabenzo and tetranapthoporphyrins for construction of phosphorescent oxygen probes as well as in several other applications.

Although meso tetraarylated extended porphyrins are most common primarily because of the solubility considerations meso unsubstituted tetrabenzoporphyrins TBP s and tetranaphthoporphyrins TNP s which in fact have higher phosphorescence quantum yields and longer lifetimes can also be synthesized via the oxidative aromatization method Finikova et al. 70 9562 2005 . Furthermore recent introduction of 4 7 dihydroisoindole Filatov et al. 3468 2007 paved a practical route to 5 15 diaryl TBPs Filatov et al. 73 4175 2008 . The latter porphyrins are especially attractive for construction of oxygen probes as they combine higher emissivity Lebedev et al. 112 7723 2008 with the possibility of attaching dendrons to the anchor points in the meso aryl rings which is lacking in meso unsubstituted porphyrins. Notably examples of porphyrin dendrimers based on 5 15 diarylporphyrins are well known Dandliker et al. Edition in English 33 1739 1994 Dandliker et al. Edition in English 34 2725 1996 .

Polyglutamic Pd porphyrin dendrimers made up the first generation of dendritic oxygen probes Vanderkooi et al. 262 5476 1987 Vinogradov Wilson 2 103 1995 Papkovsky et al. 15 569 2005 . The compounds are described by the general formula e.g. PdP GluOH if first generation where n 1 4 dendrimer generation and GluOH is the glutamic layer. Similar abbreviations to designate porphyrin dendrimers of different types and generations terminated by different groups are used herein. But the polyglutamic Pd porphyrin dendrimers required prebinding to macromolecular carriers e.g. albumin in order to enhance their aqueous solubility and bring their quenching parameters and k Eq 1 into the range compatible with physiological oxygen concentrations see Vinogradov Wilson In chap 14 Campagna Ceroni Puntoriero Eds. Wiley 2012 for discussion . However foreign albumin was a potential source of toxicity and immunogenic responses.

Introduction of polyglutamic dendritic porphyrins Vinogradov et al. 5 1338 1999 Vinogradov et al. 428 657 1997 Rietveld et al. 59 3821 2003 which were generation 2 gen 2 polyglutamic PD prophyrin dendrimers known as Oxyphors R2 and G2 Dunphy et al. 310 191 2002 offered a partial solution to this problem and they have been used in many biological studies over the years wherein dendritic encapsulation was needed to protect the triplet states of Pd porphyrins from oxygen quenching. Polyglutamic probes have high intrinsic aqueous solubility and can be introduced into the blood directly without prebinding to albumin. When in the blood they form complexes with endogenous albumin and these complexes serve as ultimate oxygen sensors. But as a result use of Oxyphors R2 and G2 is limited to albumin rich environments such as blood plasma 2 in albumin by weight . But even in such environments incomplete binding to albumin which can be easily encountered at higher probe concentrations e.g. above 10M may lead to heterogeneity of the probe signal skewing the measurement. Vinogradov et al. 54 849 2000 . Notably combinations of polyglutamic probes with polymeric nanoparticle based carriers have been recently introduced e.g. Lee et al. 82 8446 2010 which alleviate the necessity of albumin binding and allow oxygen measurements in cultured cells.

Thus the drawbacks associated with use of dendritic polyglutamic porphyrins clearly show that probes with albumin independent phosphorescence lifetimes and oxygen quenching constants would greatly simplify data analysis and broaden applicability of the method e.g. make it possible to take measurements in albumin free environments . Although polyglutamic dendrimers were limited in use experiments showed that composition of the dendritic matrix is at least as important for shielding as is the dendrimer size itself leading to studies of the interplay between the dendrimer composition size and encapsulating efficiency as measured by oxygen diffusion and quenching of phosphorescence.

In order to determine which dendrimers provide optimal attenuation of oxygen quenching of porphyrin phosphorescence a study was performed Rozhkov et al. 35 1991 2002 which involved three types of porphyrin dendrimers Fr chet type poly aryl ethers Hawker et al. 11287 1993 Newkome type poly ether amides Newkome et al. 24 1443 1991 Newkome et al. Synlett 53 1992 and polyglutamates Vinogradov et al. 5 1338 1999 .

Pd meta octahydroxyphenylporphyrin and Pd meta octacarboxyphenyl porphyrin compatible with either Williamson Fr or peptide Nw Glu chemistries were used as phosphorescent cores. The studies were performed in dimethylformamide DMF tetrahydrofuran THF and water. To insure appropriate aqueous solubility termini of the dendrimers were modified with oligoethyleneglycol residues e.g. PEG polyethylene glycol which rendered uncharged molecules soluble both in organic solvents and in water.

In organic solvents decrease in the quenching rates was found to be consistent with increase in the dendrimer size and these changes were rather insignificant. As expected bulkier poly ether amides exhibit a stronger effect but still the decrease in the quenching was only about 75 for G2 dendrimer whose weight is more than 12 kDa that is more than 12 times that of the core porphyrin. Notably in the case of polyglutamic derivatives of PdTCPP dendrons were attached to the para positions on the meso aryl rings of the porphyrin extending out of the macrocycle instead of covering it from above and below and thus the shield effect was much weaker for the same size dendrons. A much larger difference in quenching rates was observed in water.

The practical determination was that dendrimers constructed from aromatic building blocks potentially have much higher shielding efficiency in aqueous environments than do other types of dendrimers. In addition it was determined that in order to prevent interaction of dendrimers with biological macromolecules their periphery should be modified with PEG residues vide infra referred to as peripheral PEGylation of the dendrimers.

Other references relating to dendritic macromolocules and their methods of production can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 418 301 4 568 737 5 393 795 5 256 193 5 393 797 5 393 795 5 393 797 5 098 475 5 041 516 and 4 568 737 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. The phosphors employed in for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 865 the 865 patent and by Vinogradov and Wilson 2 103 111 1995 were preferably of the general formula described therein wherein Rwas hydrogen H or substituted or unsubstituted aryl. Rand Rwere independently hydrogen or are linked together to form substituted or unsubstituted aryl. When Rand Rwere linked together to form an aryl system the aryl system was necessarily in a fused relationship to the respective pyrrole substrate. M was Hor preferably a metal selected from the group consisting of Lu Pd Pt Zn Al Sn Y La and derivatives thereof with Pd Pt and Lu being most preferred.

Accordingly the prior art formulations were all based on meso tetraaryl substituted metalloporphyrins but the inventors have determined that non planar deformation of the porphyrin macrocycle resulting from tetra aryl substitution led to a loss of phosphorescence emission. Thus the resulting dendritic oxygen probes were effective but limited for their intended purpose.

Subsequently however the inventors identified a general approach to protected molecular oxygen probes which do not require albumin or any other supporting macromolecular carriers or nanocompositions See Lebedev et al. 1 1292 2009 Finikova et al. 9 1673 2008 Ceroni et al. 10 1056 2011 . In these probes phosphorescent metalloporphyrins are encapsulated inside hydrophobic dendrimers which form protecting shells enveloping the chromophores controlling oxygen diffusion to the excited triplet states and enabling control over the sensitivity of the approach. Peripheral PEGylation of the dendrimers ensured high aqueous solubility and prevented interactions of the probes with biological macromolecules.

Synthesis and detailed characterization of two new probes Oxyphors R4 and G4 derived from phosphorescent Pd meso tetra 3 5 dicarboxyphenyl porphyrin PdP or Pd meso tetra 3 5 dicarboxyphenyl tetrabenzoporphyrin PdTBP respectively as reported by Esipova et al 83 8756 published on line Oct. 11 2011 herein incorporated by reference. These probes are built according to the above referenced general scheme and possess features common for protected dendritic probes i.e. hydrophobic dendritic encapsulation of phosphorescent metalloporphyrins and hydrophilic PEGylated periphery. The new Oxyphors R4 and G4 are highly soluble in aqueous environments and do not permeate biological membranes. The probes were calibrated under physiological conditions pH 6.4 7.8 and temperatures 22 38 C. showing high stability reproducibility of signals and lack of interactions with biological solutes were intended for wide use in biological research. However the probes structural elements are further optimized for improved yield of synthesis 1 2 times higher monodispersity of pure monodisperse dendritic oxygen probes lack of aggregation in aqueous solutions and overall better chemical stability.

As disclosed above a byproduct of the biological oxygen measurements by phosphorescence quenching using exogenous phosphorescent probes introduced directly into the medium of interest e.g. blood or interstitial fluid is singlet a highly reactive species capable of damaging biological tissue. Consequently because potential probe phototoxicity is a concern for biological applications studies compared the ability of polyethyleneglycol PEG coated Pd tetrabenzoporphyrin PdTBP based dendritic nanoprobes of three successive generations to sensitize singlet oxygen. As a result it was demonstrated that the size of the dendrimer has practically no effect on the singlet oxygen sensitization efficiency in spite of the strong attenuation of the triplet quenching rate with an increase in the dendrimer generation.

Nevertheless in spite of their ability to sensitize singlet oxygen the phosphorescent probes were found to be non phototoxic when compared with the commonly used photodynamic drug Photofrin in a standard cell survival assay. Ceroni et al. 10 1056 1065 2011 . The lack of phototoxicity is presumably due to the inability of PEGylated probes to associate with cell surfaces and or penetrate cellular membranes. In contrast conventional photosensitizers bind to cell components and act by generating singlet oxygen inside or in the immediate vicinity of cellular organelles. Therefore PEGylated dendritic probes are safe to use for tissue oxygen measurements as long as the light doses are less than or equal to those commonly employed in photodynamic therapy.

One of the probes Oxyphor G4 was applied to imaging of oxygen distributions in tumors both intravascularly and in the interstitial space. The probe allowed dynamic visualization of the tissue pOlevels in the tumor and in the surrounding muscle as oxygenation responded to changes in the depth of anesthesia. The phosphorescence from the probe also could be detected in trans illumination geometry i.e. through the whole body of the animal thus demonstrating feasibility of in vivo full body oxygen tomography.

Although it is critically important that quenching properties of phosphorescent probes do not change in the presence of blood plasma proteins and other biological macromolecules quenching constants of all carboxylate terminated porphyrin dendrimers were found to be highly sensitive to albumin. For example k of gen 2 Frechet type porphyrin dendrimer in albumin solution 2 by mass is five times lower 30 mm Hgs than that in the albumin free aqueous buffer 151 mm Hgs Gorman et al. 122 9342 2000 . To the contrary however quenching of porphyrin dendrimers modified with oligoethyleneglycol residues PEG350 Av. MW 350 appeared to be unaffected by serum proteins. Thus kof the PEGylated analogue of gen 2 Fr chet type porphyrin dendrimer was found to have the same value 130 mm Hgs in the presence and in the absence of albumin Estrada et al. 33 1038 2008 .

Thus it was important to distinguish between the effect of hydrophobic dendrons and the effect of external PEG residues. While the latter also contribute to the protection from quenching especially at early dendritic generations the net effect of PEG is very small as noted above compared to the shielding by dendritic branches. Moreover the PEG effect rapidly levels off with extension of linear chains. It was shown that external PEG chains as large as 300 000 Da have practically no effect on oxygen quenching constants of these molecules. Moreover in addition to being able to prevent interactions of dendrimers with proteins peripheral PEG groups also strongly affect biodistribution and rate of excretion of dendritic macromolecules Newkome supra 1992 .

Among known dendrimers with aromatic backbones dendritic arylamides were very attractive because of their high chemical stability low cost and effective protocols available for their assembly. In particular arylamide dendrimers based on 5 aminoisophthalic acid 5 AIPA were selected to make the focal functionality more reactive and to simultaneously increase the flexibility of the dendritic backbone by extending the amino end of the 5 AIPA molecule by adding a flexible fragment terminated with an aliphatic amine. This possibility was explored by constructing aryl glycine AG dendrons and dendrimers Vinogradov 7 1761 2005 . The following abbreviations are used to designate aryl glycine dendrons and dendrimers. Dendrons were designated X AGnR where AG denotes the dendritic aryl glycine skeleton n is the dendrimer generation number X is the focal functionality and R is the terminal group. Dendrimers were designated C AGnR where C denotes the dendrimer core AG denotes the dendritic aryl glycine skeleton n is the generation number R is the terminal group and m is the number of dendritic wedges attached to the core.

The developed synthesis of AG dendrons relies on the classic Fischer s haloacyl halide method Miller et al. 2 346 1990 for the synthesis of building blocks. Synthesis of AG dendrons in principle also can be implemented using the Fischer s method however a more robust scheme is based on a coupling deprotection sequence employing the peptide coupling reactions of Lebedev et al. 1 1292 2009 . See also synthesis and peptide coupling reactions described in greater detail in Vinogradov Wilson In chap 14 Campagna Ceroni Puntoriero Eds. Wiley 2012 .

Each step of the sequence was carefully optimized in order to insure maximal yields and monodispersity of the probes. Porphyrins modified with AGand AG aryl glycine first and second generation dendrons could be isolated in high purity but modification of porphyrins with AG dendrons third generation proved extremely challenging always yielding mixtures of dendrimers with six seven and eight dendritic branches. The peripheral ester groups were hydrolyzed using a special two step procedure Lebedev et al. supra 2009 which in parallel destroys unreacted dendrons making it possible to entirely avoid chromatographic purifications. The resulting peripheral carboxyl groups on the dendrimers are esterified with PEG residues of the desired length and simple re precipitation from THF upon addition of diethyl ether produced pure PEGylated dendrimers. The magnitude of the attenuation effect is similar to that of poly aryl ether dendrimers. As a result quenching constants and lifetimes of gen 2 Pd porphyrin dendrimers are well suited for biological oxygen measurements. These probes exhibit good dynamic range and excellent sensitivity. For example in the case of PdP based gen 2 dendrimer the relative sensitivity coefficient R vide supra is as high as 0.9. Moreover PEG coated AG porphyrin dendrimers exhibited a property that their oxygen quenching constants kq and lifetimes are completely insensitive to the presence of biological macromolecules.

VIII. Improvements in the Next Generation of Oxygen Sensors 5 15 Diaryl and Meso Unsubstituted Porphyrin Embodiments.

Systematic structure property comparisons between differently substituted porphyrins have demonstrated that dendritic oxygen probes can be constructed using Pd meso unsubstituted or 5 15 diaryl substituted extended porphyrins recognized as meaning that the aromatic macrocycle of the porphyrin is extended by way of extending its electronic system But the 5 15 diaryl substituted extended porphyrins have significantly higher phosphorescence quantum yields up to 50 greater than tetraaryl extended porphyrins and long enough triplet lifetimes for higher oxygen sensitivity.

Probes based on extended porphyrins are optimal for tomographic tissue oxygen imaging applications Apreleva et al. 45 8547 8559 2006 Apreleva et al. 33 782 784 2008 where excitation in the near infrared range NIR is required. For high resolution microscopy applications excitation in the visible range is preferred Golub et al. . 294 1 H21 2008 Yaseen et al. 29 S381 S393 2009 Yaseen et al. 17 22341 22350 2009 .

In both cases however increase in the phosphorescence quantum yield is an important objective. Pd meso tetraarylporphyrins have their quantum yields at zero oxygen in the range of 0.02 0.08 and triplet lifetimes of 300 700 s depending on the type of extension i.e. tetrabenzo extension or tetranaphtho extension with respect to the basic 18 tetrapyrrolic macrocycle Rozhkov et al. 42 4253 4255 2003 Rogers et al. 107 11331 11339 2003 . Analogous Pt porphyrins have the quantum yields of 0.10 0.20 when measured by currently approved measurement techniques and their lifetimes are 30 60 s.

The inventors detailed photophysical structural and computational studies were conducted to delineate the interplay between radiative and non radiative triplet deactivation processes in Pd porphyrins and tetrabenzoporphyrins see Lebedev et al. 112 7723 77336 2008 . In fact non planar distortions of the porphyrin macrocycle were shown to diminish the triplet emission yield of PdTBP s competing non radiative triplet to singlet ground state transitions i.e. intersystem crossing. This is because the lifetime of the PdTBP triplet state in the absence of oxygen increases with dendritic generation thus compensating for the concomitant decrease in the rate of quenching. In fact non planar distortions of the porphyrin macrocycle were shown to diminish the triplet emission yield of PdTBP s by increasing the rate of T S referring to the internal non radiative quenching of the triplet state T returning it to the ground state S . Increase in this non radiative pathway decreases phosphorescence emission. However this effect is considerably less pronounced than in regular non extended porphyrins see . clearly shows much less non planar distortion of the macrocycle in the case of PdPh2TBP. Photophysical measurements show that non planar deformations have deleterious effect on the porphyrin triplet emissivity. Therefore even highly saddled tetraaryl TBP s which are used as cores in current probes are able to phosphoresce.

It was also determined by the inventors studies that Pd and Pt TBP s without meso substituents Finikova et al. 70 9562 9572 2005A and 5 15 diaryl TBP s Filatov et al. 73 4175 4185 2008 have much higher emission quantum yields than the corresponding tetraarylporphyrins. In the case of meso unsubstituted PtTBP s phosphorescence quantum yields reach as high as 0.5 at room temperature by currently accepted measuring techniques. The same trends are characteristic of TNP s.

Based on these findings Pt and Pd meso unsubstituted as well as 5 15 diarylsubstituted TBP s and TNP s are used as for construction of embodiments of the new generation probes of the present invention. The synthesis of 5 15 diarylsubstituted porphyrins is based on the recently developed 4 7 dihydroisoindole method Filatov et al. 2008 supra Cheprakov et al. 13 291 303 2009 and on the analogous strategy developed earlier for the synthesis of precursors of TNP s Finikova et al. 2005A supra Finikova et al. 68 7517 7520 2003 Finikova et al. 70 4617 4628 2005B . See .

In one embodiment of the present invention the porphyrinogens are assembled using the 2 2 Filatov et al. Synthesis of 5 15 diaryltetrabenzoporphyrins 73 4175. 2008 and oxidized by DDQ dichlorodicyano 1 4 benzoquinone into the target precursor tetracyclo hexenoporphyrin TCHP Ibid . After insertion of Pd or Pt the TCHP is oxidized also by DDQ into target TBP s Finikova et al. Novel versatile synthesis of substituted tetrabenzoporphyrins 69 522 2004 .

Synthesis of meso unsubstituted TBP s and TNP s with substituents in the fused rings has been previously developed Finikova et al. Synthesis and luminescence of soluble meso unsubstituted tetrabenzo and tetranaphtho 2 3 porphyrins 70 9562 2005 . However these positions are hindered sterically especially with respect to the attachment of bulky dendritic ligands required for protection of the porphyrin core from excessive oxygen quenching.

In an embodiment of the invention the scheme depicted in is used to synthesize meso unsubstituted TBP s with appropriately positioned anchor groups as disclosed. The scheme shows two routes sharing maleimide as a common precursor. One route was based on the modified Barton Zard synthesis of sulfolenolpyrrole a method of pyrrole synthesis by a cyclization reaction between a nitroalkene and isocyanoacetate under base conditions developed previously by Vicente et al. 38 3639 3642 1997 . A second route was also feasible however conditions of the Barton Zard reaction Barton Zard A new synthesis of pyrroles from nitroalkenes 1098 1985 needed to be adjusted for each specific case as its outcome is likely to be affected by the presence of aromatic imide group. The stability of this imide depends on the substituents R and their positions given that electron withdrawing substituents in 3 5 positions will de stabilize the imide with respect to hydrolytic cleavage . Accordingly to insure better protection of meso unsubstituted porphyrins already at early dendritic generations in at least one embodiment 2 6 substituents were used which direct the dendrons under and above the porphyrin plane.

Embodiments of the invention have shown that attachment of extension linkers to the anchor groups on either meso aryl rings or directly on porphyrin macrocycle greatly facilitates coupling of the protecting dendrons. Specifically extension of carboxylic groups with aminobutyrate linkages extension arms permitted high yield synthesis of monodisperse dendritic oxygen probes or improved sensitivity and higher purity See basic photophysical studies as a foundation for determining the significantly higher phosphorescence quantum yields of the 5 15 diaryl substituted extended porphyrins as compared with tetraarylporphyrins by Esipova et al. Two new protected oxyphors for biological oximetry properties and application in tumor imaging 83 8756 published on line Oct. 11 2011 .

Dendrimerization of phosphorescent porphyrins includes hydrolysis of the peripheral ester groups on the porphyrin attachment of dendrons hydrolysis of their peripheral esters on the dendrons and PEGylation of the resulting free carboxyl groups. See . These methods have been developed by the inventors and described in their previous patents cited above and incorporated herein by reference. One critical improvement however that was only recently established relates to the yield and purity limiting step in the synthesis that is attachment of the bulky dendritic substituents to the porphyrin core. This step typically proceeds via one of the standard peptide coupling reactions or any other suitable chemistry. Yet the steric hindrance imposed by large folded dendritic groups impedes the reaction. However if the anchor groups are extended by flexible linkers bulky substrate react slowly because of unfavorable steric reasons and thus the actual reaction sites are placed at a larger distance from one another they become much more accessible to nucleophilic attack. Consequently the resulting reaction occurs with higher rate i.e. complete dendrimerization is reached overnight approx. 24 hours as opposed to 7 days in the case of porphyrins without extension arms and provides clean octa dendrimerized porphyrin as opposed to mixture of hexa hepta and octa dendrimerized porphyrins imperfect contaminating dendrimers that were obtained in the case of porphyrins without extension arms.

The overall scheme of the synthesis is shown in for the case of 5 15 diaryl p extended porphyrins vide supra . The extension step is the first step in the reaction sequence and the addition of AG3 elements third generation Gen 3 arylglycine dendrimers.

C Increase in the Excitation Cross Sections of the Probe Via Intramolecular Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer FRET .

One approach to enhancing production of excitement cross sections in metalloporphyrins without directly altering their electronic properties involves harvesting the excitation energy by an electronically separate antenna and to pass it onto the phosphorescent core via intramolecular F rster type resonance energy transfer FRET See Bri as et al. 127 11851 2005 . In such an antenna core system constructed around a dendrimer the latter regulates the rate of oxygen diffusion to the core just as in the regular dendritic probes see above while the dendrimer termini control the probe bio distribution.

Resonance energy transfer is the radiationless transmission of an energy quantum from its site of absorption to the site of its utilization in the molecule or system of molecules by resonance interaction between chromophores over distances considerably greater than interatomic distance without conversion to thermal energy and without the donor and acceptor coming into kinetic collision. The donor is the marker that initially absorbs the energy and the acceptor is the chromophore to which the energy is subsequently transferred. from Van Der Meer Coker and Chen VCH New York 1994 .

F rster Fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET resonance energy transfer RET or electronic energy transfer EET is a mechanism describing energy transfer between two chromophores. 1 A donor chromophore initially in its electronic excited state may transfer energy to an acceptor chromophore through nonradiative dipole dipole coupling. 2 The efficiency of this energy transfer is inversely proportional to the sixth power of the distance between donor and acceptor making FRET extremely sensitive to small distances. 3 Measurements of FRET efficiency can be used to determine if two fluorophores are within a certain distance of each other. 4 Such measurements are used as a research tool in fields including biology and chemistry. When both chromophores are fluorescent the term fluorescence resonance energy transfer is often preferred although the energy is not actually transferred by fluorescence. In order to avoid an erroneous interpretation of the phenomenon that is always a nonradiative transfer of energy even when occurring between two fluorescent chromophores.

FRET is analogous to near field communication in that the radius of interaction is much smaller than the wavelength of light emitted. In the near field region the excited chromophore emits a virtual photon that is instantly absorbed by a receiving chromophore. These virtual photons are undetectable since their existence violates the conservation of energy and momentum and hence FRET is known as a radiationless mechanism. Quantum electrodynamical calculations have been used to determine that radiationless FRET and radiative energy transfer are the short and long range asymptotes of a single unified mechanism. Jablonski diagrams illustrate the electronic states of a molecule and the transitions between them. The states are arranged vertically by energy and grouped horizontally by spin multiplicity Jablo ski Aleksander Efficiency of Anti Stokes Fluorescence in Dyes 131 839 840 1933 .

When the donor probe is a fluorescent molecule and when light excites the fluorophore at an appropriate wavelength 250 500 nm its electrons jump from the ground state S to a higher vibrational level S S S etc . Within picoseconds these electrons decay to the lowest of these vibrational levels S and then decay more slowly nsec to one of the S states and a photon of light is emitted whose wavelength is longer than that of the exciting wavelength. The acceptor probe can be fluorescent or non fluorescent.

Accordingly FRET efficiency relates to the quantum yield and the fluorescence lifetime of the donor molecule as follows See e.g. Majoul et al. 2006 . Practical Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer or Molecular Nanobioscopy of Living Cells. In Fawley 3rd ed. . New York N.Y. Springer. pp. 788 808 . In fluorescence microscopy fluorescence confocal laser scanning microscopy as well as in molecular biology FRET is a useful tool to quantify molecular dynamics in biophysics and biochemistry such as protein protein interactions protein DNA interactions and protein conformational changes. For monitoring the complex formation between two molecules one is labeled with a donor and the other with an acceptor. The FRET efficiency is measured and used to identify interactions between the labeled complexes. After excitation the states of the antenna S are populated and have internally converted into the lowest excited singlet state S the excess energy is transferred to the core.

The F rster energy transfer mechanism assumes that the fluorescence S S of the donor 2P antenna overlaps with an absorption band S S n 1 2 . . . of the acceptor core . Therefore the core must possess linear absorption band s somewhere in the region extending to the red from 400 nm. Exact positions of these bands are defined by the Stokes shift of the fluorescence of the antenna relative to its absorption at 400 nm. The FRET from the antenna to the core results either in the population of its singlet excited state S which is depopulated via the intersystem crossing isc to yield the triplet state T resulting in either oxygen quenching or phosphorescence. Thus FRET efficiency is the quantum yield of the energy transfer transition i.e. the fraction of energy transfer event occurring per donor excitation event. There are several ways of measuring the FRET efficiency by monitoring changes in the fluorescence emitted by the donor or the acceptor or as the variation in acceptor emission intensity Clegg R. 2009 . In Gadella Theodorus Vol. 33 Elsevier. pp. 1 57 . When the donor and acceptor are in proximity 1 10 nm due to the interaction of the two molecules the acceptor emission increases because of the intermolecular FRET from the donor to the acceptor.

An example of the intramolecular Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer FRET method is shown in . Aryl glycine dendrimers are modified by including functional groups into their interior. Although coumarins Bri as et al. 127 11851 2005 are rather moderate 2P absorbers their 2PA cross sections tens of GM units are still higher than of Pt porphyrins and the emission of some coumarins for example of coumarin 343 C343 is compatible with Q band absorption of Pt porphyrins 510 nm 25 800 Mcm suggesting high efficiency FRET. C343 fluoresces with quantum yield 75 in DMF and its value is about 25 GM. Bri as et al. showed four C343 moieties could be attached to PtTCPP Pt meso tetra 4 carboxyphenyl porphyrin via ethylenediamine linkers using standard peptide chemistry giving a simple FRET enhanced two photon absorbing phosphorescent probe.

In this case coumarin 343 C343 units operate as antenna chromophores to enhance the absorption of dendritic probes. The spectral overlap between fluorescence of C343 and the Q band absorption of PdTBP is not large and F rster donor to acceptor separation distance r distance see Equation 2 above for this pair is estimated to be 10 . However C343 units in the molecule of were separated from the porphyrin by F rster distances not more than r and FRET occurred with 95 efficiency. The residual C343 fluorescence which is not oxygen independent provided the reference signal. The absorption of C343 will extend the absorption of Soret band of PdTBP. The UV visible electronic absorption spectrum of a typical porphyrin macrocycle consists of a strong transition to the second excited state S S exhibiting an intense feature extinction coefficient 200.000 at about 400 nm the Soret or B band and a weak transition to the first excited state S S at about 550 nm the Q band . See the Gouterman four orbital model of the absorption spectra of porphyrins e.g. Milgrom The Colours of Life An Introduction to the Chemistry of Porphyrins and Related Compounds Oxford 1997 ed. D. Dolphin Academic Press New York 1978 . This enhancement enables use of several available laser bands different wavelength lasers for excitation .

Finally C343 contains an amino group whose free electron pair should provide a good target for singlet oxygen which is produced as a result of phosphorescence quenching thus decontaminating and detoxifying the measurement environment. Singlet oxygen can be generated during quenching of phosphorescence and this would inactivate any singlet oxygen that is formed before it can leave the region of the phosphor. Importantly since C343 is an aromatic amine aniline it is not protonated under physiological conditions. Indeed the fluorescence spectra of C343 based probes including two photon enhanced phosphorescent probes Brinas et al. 2005 127 11851 11862 2005 Finikova et al. 111 6977 6990 2007 Finikova et al. 9 1673 1679 2008A are not affected by pH changes in the physiological range. This would not be the case if the amino group were protonated.

D Dendritic Phosphorescent Probes are Suitable for Oxygen Measurements in Liquid Organic Media e.g. Organic Solvents or Oils.

The present invention provides oxygen sensors that can be designed to be dissolved in water media for use in biological systems or designed to be dissolved in organic media for use in specialized oxygen sensors for any process in which organic media can be used including those requiring organic media. This is a specific section for those that would best be dissolved in organic media for which the external shell would need to different from those used in water based media. To achieve solubility of the dendritic probes in organic media the termini of the dendrimers e.g. carboxyl groups are amidated using 1 aminoalkanes or esterified using 1 hydroxyalkanes to create a supramolecular hydrophobic outer layer . The chemistry for this modification and the purification protocols closely resembles the above discussed procedures for covering dendrimer surfaces with PEG groups. But in accordance with addition of the supermolecular hydrophobic outer layer the resulting probes showed extremely high solubility in saturated hydrocarbons aromatic mineral oils and other organic solvents whereas without attachment of the new outermost layer the probe remains completely insoluble in such liquids.

In order to keep the Stern Volmer oxygen quenching constant of the probe suitable for oxygen measurements in the physiological pOrange polyarylglycine or other polyamide dendrimers namely polyglutamic polyesteramide polyarylamide have been tested. These dendrimers fold well in aqueous as well as in organic environments serving to attenuate oxygen access to the phosphorescent cores. Thus essentially the same dendrimers can be used for both aqueous and hydrophobic environments and only the outer layers supramolecular needs to be changed.

In sum methods are provided for substantially improving the currently available oxygen sensitive phosphors by increasing the quantum efficiency phosphorescence intensity and extending their range of applicability through making a class of oxygen sensors for measurements in organic media. Thus methods are provided in the present invention for synthesizing new porphyrin constructs in which the porphyrin is made less flexible and more planar changing with decrease internal quenching and thereby increasing the phosphorescence emission used for oxygen sensing. Additional methods are provided for structurally modifying the dendrimer used to encapsulate the porphyrin phosphor to provide for internal quenching of any singlet oxygen formed while measuring oxygen. Moreover in the present invention it is the outer layer that controls the solubility of the probe as a whole. If the probe needs to be soluble in water a water soluble outer layer is added whereas if the probe needs to be soluble in organic media an outer layer is added making it compatible with organics. The inventors experiments have shown that Pd and Pt porphyrin based Gen 2 arylglycine dendrimers AG2 modified at the periphery with 1 hexadecylamine possess high ca millimolar solubility in a variety of organic solvents e.g. oils saturated hydrocarbons aromatic mineral oils benzene toluene hexane octane tetrahydrofurane saturated alkanes mineral oil cooking oils oils used in food or cosmetics and organic liquids used in tissue and biological analyses and any equivalent thereof permitting phosphorescence measurements throughout the entire ambient oxygen range pO 0 160 mm Hg.

The disclosure of each patent patent application and publication cited or described in this document is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

While the foregoing specification has been described with regard to certain preferred embodiments and many details have been set forth for the purpose of illustration it will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention that the invention may be subject to various modifications and additional embodiments and that certain of the details described herein can be varied considerably without departing from the basic principles of the invention. Such modifications and additional embodiments are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

