---

title: Method and apparatus for policy criteria generation
abstract: Methods, apparatuses, and computer program products are described herein that are configured to generate criteria that defines instances in which a policy is to be applied or otherwise activated. In some example embodiments, a method is provided that comprises receiving an indication of a selected field of one or more fields that are applicable to a criteria for a policy. The method of this embodiment may also include receiving an indication of an operation selection and a specified value related to the selected field. The method of this embodiment may also include generating a criterion that modifies the criteria for the policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08782736&OS=08782736&RS=08782736
owner: McKesson Financial Holdings
number: 08782736
owner_city: Hamilton
owner_country: BM
publication_date: 20130131
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to a method apparatus and computer program product for generating criteria for policy activation and or application.

In some instances software programs are generated such that they provide a polished front end for users. Such a front end enables a user to easily navigate through the functionality of the program. However the backend of those same software programs are generally very complex and do not lend themselves to easy modification and or updating. For example a novice user may be able to navigate the front end whereas a programmer or other experienced software professional may be required to provide the necessary updates or modifications to the software program. While the software programmer or other software professional may be qualified to make the updates or modifications the time or resources expended may not be as efficient as if users themselves could update or modify the software program should a change need to be made. As such in some cases the updates or modifications are not simply made or may be delayed.

Methods apparatuses and computer program products are described herein that are configured to provide an intuitive user interface that allows a novice user to update or modify a software program. In particular the embodiments of the present invention enable a user to generate criteria that are configured to define instances in which a policy associated with the software program is to be applied or otherwise activated. In some example embodiments a method is provided that comprises receiving an indication of a selected policy of one or more policies defined by a software program. The method of this embodiment may also include generating using a processor and in response to receiving the indication of a selected policy a plurality of fields that are applicable to a criteria for the selected policy. In some example embodiments the criteria comprises one or more criterion that define instances in which the policy is to be activated by the software program. The method of this embodiment may also include enabling a user to build a criterion that modifies the criteria for the selected policy. In some example embodiments the criterion is generated based on an indication of at least one selected field of the plurality of fields and an indication of an operation selection and a specified value associated with each selected field. In some example embodiments the software program is configured to use the modified criteria to determine an instance in which the selected policy is to be applied.

In further example embodiments an apparatus is provided that includes at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code with the at least one memory and the computer program code being configured with the at least one processor to cause the apparatus to at least receive an indication of a selected policy of one or more policies defined by a software program. The at least one memory and computer program code may also be configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to generate a plurality of fields that are applicable to a criteria for a selected policy in response to receiving the indication of the selected policy. In some example embodiments the criteria comprises one or more criterion that define instances in which the selected policy is to be activated by the software program. The at least one memory and computer program code may also be configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to enable a user to build a criterion that modifies the criteria for the selected policy. In some example embodiments the criterion is generated based on an indication of at least one selected field of the plurality of fields and an indication of an operation selection and a specified value associated with each selected field. In some example embodiments the software program is configured to use the criteria to determine an instance in which the selected policy is to be applied.

In yet further example embodiments a computer program product may be provided that includes at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable program instructions stored therein with the computer readable program instructions including program instructions configured to receive an indication of a selected policy of one or more policies defined by a software program. The computer readable program instructions may also include program instructions configured to generate a plurality of fields that are applicable to a criteria for a selected policy in response to receiving the indication of the selected policy. In some example embodiments the criteria comprises one or more criterion that define instances in which the selected policy is to be activated by the software program. The computer readable program instructions may also include program instructions configured to enable a user to build a criterion that modifies the criteria for the selected policy. In some example embodiments the criterion is generated based on an indication of at least one selected field of the plurality of fields and an indication of an operation selection and a specified value associated with each selected field. In some example embodiments the software program is configured to use the criteria to determine an instance in which the selected policy is to be applied.

In yet further example embodiments an apparatus is provided that includes means for receiving an indication of a selected policy of one or more policies defined by a software program. The apparatus of this embodiment may also include means for generating in response to receiving the indication of a selected policy a plurality of fields that are applicable to a criteria for the selected policy. In some example embodiments the criteria comprises one or more criterion that define instances in which the selected policy is to be activated by the software program. The apparatus of this embodiment may also include means for enabling a user to build a criterion that modifies the criteria for the selected policy. In some example embodiments the criterion is generated based on an indication of at least one selected field of the plurality of fields and an indication of an operation selection and a specified value associated with each selected field. In some example embodiments the software program is configured to use the criteria to determine an instance in which the selected policy is to be applied.

Example embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments are shown. Indeed the embodiments may take many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. The terms data content information and similar terms may be used interchangeably according to some example embodiments to refer to data capable of being transmitted received operated on and or stored. Moreover the term exemplary as may be used herein is not provided to convey any qualitative assessment but instead merely to convey an illustration of an example. Thus use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.

In some examples software programs may be built such that they include various policies that based on established criteria may result in particular action or consequence occurring. For example a software program such as a time and attendance program may include criteria that may define an instance in which a pay rule set is applied to a particular timesheet. As such methods apparatuses and computer program products are described herein that are configured to enable a user to quickly and easily generate criteria e.g. a formula that indicate instances in which a policy is to be activated or otherwise applied by a software program. In some example embodiments a policy may comprise one or more rules that are to be applied when a criteria is satisfied. For example a policy of applying an overtime pay rate to worked hours may be applied in an instance in which an employee s hours are over 40 hours and if they are a full time employee.

In further examples the criteria may be used to invoke a policy that causes a particular scheduling entry to be transitioned to a time card. For example in an instance in which holiday time or education time is on a schedule that particular block of time may be transferred directly to a timecard in an instance in which that particular employee meets the criteria defined in the policy.

The methods apparatuses and computer program products described herein are therefore configured to enable a user who is not necessarily a computer programmer to generate a criteria based on a series of defined criterion in order to modify a corresponding computer program e.g. a time and attendance system . In some examples and in an instance in which a selection of a policy to be accessed or otherwise modified is received one or more fields may be automatically generated that may be used by a user in generating a criterion for the selected policy. For example a class that is related to a particular policy defines one or more fields. The fields presented are those fields that are appropriate or otherwise useable in conjunction with the particular policy to be applied.

The one or more fields are selectable such that once an indication is received that a field has been selected the selected field may be displayed in conjunction with a list of operations e.g. greater than less than or the like . A user may then select a particular operation then may enter a specific value as the operand. For example if a number of hours field was selected for an overtime policy the operation selected may be greater than and the operand may be 40 hours thus causing the policy to be activated if a particular employee had hours greater than 40 hours. In some cases a predefined set of values may also be presented. Once a field an operation and an operand are received the criterion may be verified and then stored.

In some examples criterion may be grouped with the other criterion related to the same policy. For example an overtime policy may include criteria that define each of the various instances overtime is applied. In a first case overtime may be applied when hours are greater than 40 but overtime may also be applied if the work day was a holiday. As such a logical operator such as or may then be applied to signify that the overtime policy is to be applied when hours are greater than 40 or if the day is a holiday. Using this input the system may generate the criteria for the policy such as the overtime policy so that the overtime policy can be applied by a time and attendance system.

As such a user may generate criteria for a policy using the intuitive user interface that is configured as described herein. Advantageously the user interface displays those fields and related operations that the user may use to build a particular criterion. The use of the interface is operable for example to simplify the entire process of building the criteria for the policy. Once the criterion is defined in the user interface the methods apparatuses and computer program products are configured to generate the criteria in the appropriate programming language using the appropriate variables and the proper syntax so that the criteria can be implemented by the software program.

In some example embodiments the criteria builder may operate as a component of be embodied by or otherwise have access to the time and attendance or similar system . As such the criteria builder is configured to receive an indication of a particular policy associated with the system that has been selected and an indication of any current criterion that make up the criteria for that policy. In order to build or otherwise modify the current criteria the criteria builder comprises a criterion field generation system a criterion builder and a criterion management system .

In some example embodiments the criterion field generation system is configured to provide a user with one or more selectable fields related to the selected policy. In some example embodiments and as discussed in more detail below with regard to the criterion field generation system is configured to automatically and dynamically generate the fields based on a criteria context interface class given the particular policy that was selected by the user. In some example embodiments the one or more fields are used by the criterion field generation system to instantiate the list of one or more fields that are selectable by the user. In some examples the one or more fields may be displayed in a drop box a combo box or via other means that renders or otherwise displays the one or more fields so that they are selectable by the user.

In some example embodiments the criterion builder may be configured to receive an indication of the selected field. The indication may be received via a double click of a field by a user a drag and drop of the field and or the like. In some examples the criterion builder may be configured to cause the selected field to be displayed along with an operation selection drop box e.g. in list equals greater than less than and or the like and an input area for a specified value. In some examples the specified value may be pre defined based on the selected field and or a selected operation. Consequently the criterion builder is configured to receive the field operation and specified value and based on the received field operation and specified value generate a criterion for addition to the criteria for the policy.

In some example embodiments the criterion that makes up the criteria for activating a policy can be managed by the criterion management system . In some example embodiments the criterion management system is configured to display the criterion that has been generated with respect to the criteria e.g. a visual representation of each of the currently generated formulas . In some example embodiments the criterion management system may then enable users to group or otherwise define how the criterion will be used with respect to each other such as via the use of logical operators or logical statements. In other example embodiments the criterion management system may further enable a user to group ungroup move up move down and or delete a criterion.

Alternatively or additionally and as discussed in more detail below with regard to the criteria builder may further be configured to evaluate the criterion that are entered. For example and in some example embodiments the criteria builder such as via the criterion builder is configured to determine whether the entered criterion is valid. In other example embodiments the criteria builder such as via the criterion management system is also configured to verify or otherwise check criterion groupings and the overall criteria for validity.

In the example embodiment shown computing system comprises a computer memory memory a display one or more processors input output devices e.g. keyboard mouse CRT or LCD display touch screen gesture sensing device and or the like other computer readable media and communications interface . The processor may for example be embodied as various means including one or more microprocessors with accompanying digital signal processor s one or more processor s without an accompanying digital signal processor one or more coprocessors one or more multi core processors one or more controllers processing circuitry one or more computers various other processing elements including integrated circuits such as for example an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or field programmable gate array FPGA or some combination thereof. Accordingly although illustrated in as a single processor in some embodiments the processor comprises a plurality of processors. The plurality of processors may be in operative communication with each other and may be collectively configured to perform one or more functionalities of the criteria builder application as described herein.

The criteria builder is shown residing in memory . In some examples embodiments the criteria builder is shown as part of the time and attendance or similar system also residing in the memory . The memory may comprise for example transitory and or non transitory memory such as volatile memory non volatile memory or some combination thereof. Although illustrated in as a single memory the memory may comprise a plurality of memories. The plurality of memories may be embodied on a single computing device or may be distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the criteria builder application or system. In various example embodiments the memory may comprise for example a hard disk random access memory cache memory flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc read only memory DVD ROM an optical disc circuitry configured to store information or some combination thereof.

In other embodiments some portion of the contents and or some or all of the components of the criteria builder may be stored on and or transmitted over the other computer readable media . The components of the criteria builder preferably execute on one or more processors and are configured to enable operation of a criteria builder application as described herein.

Alternatively or additionally other code or other programs e.g. an administrative interface one or more application programming interface a Web server and the like and potentially other data repositories such as other data sources also reside in the memory and preferably execute on one or more processors . Of note one or more of the components in may not be present in any specific implementation. For example some embodiments may not provide other computer readable media or a display .

The criteria builder is further configured to provide functions such as those described with reference to . The criteria builder may interact via the network and the communications interface with remote data sources e.g. remote time keeping systems time keeping data and or the like third party content and or other content or data . The network may be any combination of media e.g. twisted pair coaxial fiber optic radio frequency hardware e.g. routers switches repeaters transceivers and protocols e.g. TCP IP UDP Ethernet Wi Fi WiMAX Bluetooth that facilitate communication between remotely situated humans and or devices. In this regard the communications interface may be capable of operating with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types access types and or the like.

In an example embodiment components modules of the criteria builder are implemented using standard programming techniques. For example the criteria builder may be implemented as a native executable running on the processor along with one or more static or dynamic libraries. In other embodiments the criteria builder may be implemented as instructions processed by a virtual machine that executes as one of the other programs . In general a range of programming languages known in the art may be employed for implementing such example embodiments including representative implementations of various programming language paradigms including but not limited to object oriented e.g. Java C C Visual Basic.NET Smalltalk and the like functional e.g. ML Lisp Scheme and the like procedural e.g. C Pascal Ada Modula and the like scripting e.g. Perl Ruby Python JavaScript VBScript and the like and declarative e.g. SQL Prolog and the like .

The embodiments described above may also use synchronous or asynchronous client server computing techniques. Also the various components may be implemented using more monolithic programming techniques for example as an executable running on a single processor computer system or alternatively decomposed using a variety of structuring techniques including but not limited to multiprogramming multithreading client server or peer to peer running on one or more computer systems each having one or more processors. Some embodiments may execute concurrently and asynchronously and communicate using message passing techniques. Equivalent synchronous embodiments are also supported. Also other functions could be implemented and or performed by each component module and in different orders and by different components modules yet still achieve the described functions.

In addition programming interfaces to the data stored as part of the criteria builder such as by using one or more application programming interfaces can be made available by mechanisms such as through application programming interfaces API e.g. C C C Objective C and Java libraries for accessing files databases or other data repositories through scripting languages such as XML or through Web servers FTP servers or other types of servers providing access to stored data. The other data sources may be implemented as one or more database systems file systems or any other technique for storing such information or any combination of the above including implementations using distributed computing techniques.

Different configurations and locations of programs and data are contemplated for use with techniques described herein. A variety of distributed computing techniques are appropriate for implementing the components of the illustrated embodiments in a distributed manner including but not limited to TCP IP sockets RPC RMI HTTP Web Services XML RPC JAX RPC SOAP and the like . Other variations are possible. Also other functionality could be provided by each component module or existing functionality could be distributed amongst the components modules in different ways yet still achieve the functions described herein.

Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the components of the criteria builder may be implemented or provided in other manners such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs and the like. Some or all of the system components and or data structures may also be stored as contents e.g. as executable or other machine readable software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium so as to enable or configure the computer readable medium and or one or more associated computing systems or devices to execute or otherwise use or provide the contents to perform at least some of the described techniques. Some or all of the system components and data structures may also be stored as data signals e.g. by being encoded as part of a carrier wave or included as part of an analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums which are then transmitted including across wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Accordingly blocks of the flowcharts support combinations of means for performing the specified functions and combinations of operations for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowcharts and combinations of blocks in the flowcharts can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In some example embodiments certain ones of the operations herein may be modified or further amplified as described herein. Moreover in some embodiments additional optional operations may also be included. It should be appreciated that each of the modifications optional additions or amplifications described herein may be included with the operations herein either alone or in combination with any others among the features described herein.

As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the criterion field generation system the processor or the like for generating one or more fields for selection based on the policy that is being accessed. In some example embodiments the fields selected are the particular fields that are applicable to the policy. A more detailed discussion of how the fields may be generated is provided below with regard to .

As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the criterion builder the processor or the like for receiving an indication of a selected field of the one or more fields. As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the criterion builder the processor or the like for generating a criterion builder. In some example embodiments the criterion builder comprises an indication of the selected field a listing of operations that may be applied to a specific value or a predefined value and an input area for the entry of a specified value.

As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the criterion builder the processor or the like for receiving an indication of an operation selection and a specified value. As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the criterion builder the processor or the like for generating a criterion that modifies the criteria for the policy. In some example embodiments the criterion is generated based on the indication of the selected field and the indication of an operation selection and the specified value.

In response to the modification of the criteria for the policy the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the processor or the like for storing the criteria. In some examples the criteria may be stored as illustrated by the schema diagram shown with reference to . In further example embodiments the stored criteria may be loaded into the computing system such as by the criteria builder the processor or the like in an instance in which the criteria is to be evaluated. The evaluation of criteria is further described with reference to .

In some examples the criteria builder window is associated with a criteria controller e.g. a class that is configured to enable interaction between a policy editor and a criteria builder which is associated with a criteria utility e.g. a utility class that is configured to transform criterion into a data structure that is able to be transferred to and from the criteria builder DbRec Criteria policy detail e.g. represents database records in a criteria policy detail table and a javax.swing.Jtree e.g. a Java Swing control that is configured to display hierarchical data as an outline . The javax.swing.Jtree is associated with the criteria tree transfer handler e.g. configured to extend a TransferHandler class that enables the transfer of data during a drag and drop operation the criteria tree node e.g. an extension of a DefaultMutableTreeNode class that is configured to hold selectable field information such as data type field value column name and table name and the criteria text field transfer handler e.g. configured to extend a TransferHandler class that enables the transfer of data during a double click operation . In some examples the transfer handler and the criteria text field transfer handler are also associated with the criteria tree node and the javax.swing.TransferHandler e.g. a Java Swing class that is configured to be used to handle the transfer of a Transferable to and from Swing Component . In some examples the criteria tree node is associated with the javax.swing.tree.DefaultMutableTreeNode e.g. a Java Swing general purpose node in an example tree data structure .

In some example embodiments one or more fields relating to a policy are derived from a criteria context interface implementation which as shown above also define the tables and pre defined values to be used by the criteria builder for the policy. The policy is mapped to a criteria context based on the detail table name of the policy. As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the processor or the like for determining a criteria context implementation class name of the criteria context based on a table name relating to the policy e.g. TIME HANDLING RULE DETAIL Time Handling Rule Criteria Context in an instance in which the policy has a related CriteriaContext implementation. In some example embodiments the computing system such as via the criteria builder the processor or the like may be configured to determine whether the policy has a related CriteriaContext implementation by performing a lookup against the CriteriaContextMap to find and initialize the corresponding CriteriaContext class implementation.

As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the processor or the like for identifying one or more table column records for one or more fields specified in the criteria context interface implementation class. In some examples each table name and or column pair specified in the CriteriaContext implementation may be processed individually. In some examples the table name is used to retrieve the corresponding TableInfo record from a DataDictionary.

As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the processor or the like for receiving one or more table column records such as from the TableInfo record in the data dictionary. In some examples the TableColumnRecord is stored in the CriteriaContext instance in an ordered list such as an alphabetically ordered list holding the TableColumnRecords for each selectable field. The table column records may comprise data type table name column name field variable number and or the like.

As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the processor or the like for generating a criteria field selection tree having a selectable field for the one or more table column records. For example the CriteriaContext class instance may be passed to a CriteriaWindow such as the window shown with reference to claim b in an instance in which the window is launched. In some cases and while initializing the CriteriaWindow the list of TableColumnRecords may be retrieved by the computing system such as via the criteria builder the processor or the like from the context. From this list a CriteriaTreeNode for each TableColumnRecord is created and added to the Field Selection Tree i.e. JTree . In some examples the CriteriaTreeNode extends DefaultMutableTreeNode to enable one or more of the nodes to store additional information such as but not limited to table name column name field value and data type that may be used to perform criteria validation once the selectable field is used in a condition.

As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the processor or the like for receiving related data to the criteria to be evaluated. In some examples a Criteria Evaluation context is configured to capture the data that is to be used to evaluate the Criteria. For example in a time and attendance system such data may relate to an employee time sheet assignment data and or the like.

As is shown in operation an apparatus such as the computing system may include means such as the criteria builder the processor or the like for determining whether the criteria is to be applied. In some examples the criteria evaluation system includes the following classes CriteriaEvaluator GroupEvaluator and ConditionEvaluator as is described with reference to . In some examples the ConditionEvaluator is configured to evaluate an individual condition or criterion by substituting a field value such as from the evaluation context for the field selected in the criterion and then evaluating the resulting expression to come up with a true false value e.g. an evaluation outcome . For example if the criterion is Employee.age 21 the ConditionEvaluator is configured to determine the value for Employee.Age e.g. the age of the employee in the context and then substitute the age e.g. 30 to evaluate whether the expression 30 21 is true which it is in this example. In some examples the GroupEvaluator is responsible for evaluating a group of conditions or criterion by applying logical operators such as AND OR on the condition evaluation results. CriteriaEvaluator applies logical operators AND OR on group evaluation results to determine the final outcome of True or False which indicates whether the computing system is to apply the policy.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

