---

title: Image frame transmission method, mobile terminal, and smart television
abstract: Data compression is performed on an original image frame of a display buffer area of the mobile terminal by using a wavelet transform compression algorithm, and after the compressed data is transmitted to the smart television and an inverse wavelet transform decompression processing is performed thereon, the original image frame is restored for display, so as to achieve the content display between the screens of the mobile terminal and the smart television. Existing hardware is used to compress and decompress data, which does not occupy operation resources of the mobile terminal and the smart television, and improves the system performance and accelerates the data compression speed. Also, the adopted wavelet transform compression algorithm can effectively improve the data compression ratio, reduce the data transmission amount in the transmission process, and reduce the hardware overhead.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584831&OS=09584831&RS=09584831
owner: HUIZHOU TCL MOBILE COMMUNICATION CO., LTD.
number: 09584831
owner_city: Huizhou, Guangdong
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20130812
---
This application claims the priority of International Application No. PCT CN2013 081282 filed on Aug. 12 2013 which claims priority to Chinese Application No. 201310083103.4 filed on Mar. 15 2013. The entire disclosures of each of the above applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a multi screen interaction technology and more particularly to an image frame transmission method a mobile terminal and a smart television.

Nowadays mobile terminals and smart televisions have become products commonly used by people. However the display screen of the mobile terminal is small and the display scope thereof is relatively limited. Also the user s experience is not very good when certain application programs are being used. Therefore people gradually need communication and interconnection between smart mobile terminals and smart televisions or even data and screen sharing therebetween.

Such a multi screen interaction technology with regard to communication and interconnection between the smart mobile terminal and the smart television is to proceed transmitting analyzing presenting and controlling multimedia content between different communication devices via a wireless network so as to achieve transmitting the display data on the mobile terminal to the smart television and displaying the same thereon and satisfy the user s needs.

In conventional skills various smart mobile terminals e.g. smart phones and tablets mainly adopt operating systems such as Google Android Microsoft WP8 Windows Phone 8 Apple iOS iPhone OS and Nokia Symbian operating systems. When content is displayed by using the operating system the content required by the device for display is stored into a display buffer area of the operating system. Then a display driver of the mobile terminal is responsible for transmitting the content stored in the display buffer area to a display screen to be displayed thereon. Due to the performance limitations of a processor of the mobile terminal the content display between multiple screens dramatically increases the amount of calculations of the processor and the amount of data transmitted from the mobile terminal to the smart television is quite large as well thereby affecting the display effect.

Considering the above drawbacks existing in the conventional skills the present invention provides an image frame transmission method a mobile terminal and a smart television for solving the problems and drawbacks existing in the conventional skills.

The technical schemes adopted to solve the technical problems in the present invention are described below.

An image frame transmission method comprises steps of performing row operations on an original image frame in a display buffer area of a first communication device by adopting the Haar wavelet function to obtain first row matrices and meanwhile performing column operations on the original image frame by adopting the Haar wavelet function to obtain first column matrices performing transformations on the first row matrices and the first column matrices by adopting the Mallat algorithm to obtain a first transformed matrix compressing the first transformed matrix by the first communication device and then transmitting the compressed first transformed matrix to a second communication device decompressing the compressed first transformed matrix by the second communication device to obtain a second transformed matrix performing row operations on the second transformed matrix by adopting an inverse wavelet transform function to obtain second row matrices and performing column operations on the second transformed matrix by adopting the inverse wavelet transform function to obtain second column matrices and performing transformations on the second row matrices and the second column matrices by adopting the Mallat algorithm to obtain a to be played image frame and transmitting the to be played image frame to a display buffer area of the second communication device.

A mobile terminal comprises a first display module an image encoding compression module and a first network communication module. The image encoding compression module is respectively connected to the first display module and the first network communication module. The first network communication module being connected to a corresponding smart television. The first display module is utilized for transmitting an original image frame to the image encoding compression module. The image encoding compression module is utilized for performing row operations on the original image frame in a display buffer area of the mobile terminal by adopting the Haar wavelet function to obtain first row matrices and meanwhile performing column operations on the original image frame by adopting the Haar wavelet function to obtain first column matrices performing transformations on the first row matrices and the first column matrices by adopting the Mallat algorithm to obtain a first transformed matrix and compressing the first transformed matrix and then transmitting the compressed first transformed matrix to the first network communication module. The first network communication module is utilized for transmitting the compressed first transformed matrix to the smart television.

A smart television comprises a second display module an image encoding decompression module and a second network communication module. The image encoding decompression module is respectively connected to the second display module and the second network communication module. The second network communication module is connected to a corresponding mobile terminal. The second network communication module is utilized for receiving a compressed first transformed matrix from the mobile terminal and transmitting the compressed first transformed matrix to the image encoding decompression module. The image encoding decompression module is utilized for decompressing the compressed first transformed matrix to obtain a second transformed matrix performing row operations on the second transformed matrix by adopting an inverse wavelet transform function to obtain second row matrices and performing column operations on the second transformed matrix by adopting the inverse wavelet transform function to obtain second column matrices performing transformations on the second row matrices and the second column matrices by adopting the Mallat algorithm to obtain a to be played image frame and transmitting the to be played image frame to the second display module. The second display module is utilized for displaying the to be played image frame on the smart television.

In contrast to the conventional skills the present invention adopts a wavelet transform compression algorithm to compress image display data of the mobile terminal and then transmits that to the smart television. Based on an inverse wavelet transform algorithm the smart television decompresses the compressed data and after that the image display data of the mobile terminal is restored. The system can use the existing hardware to compress and decompress data which does not occupy operation resources of the mobile terminal and the smart television and can improve the system performance and accelerate the data compression speed. Also adopting the wavelet transform compression algorithm can effectively improve the data compression ratio reduce the data transmission amount in the transmission process and reduce the hardware overhead.

Please refer to the drawings in which the same components are represented by the same component symbols. The principle of the present invention is illustrated by an application in a suitable computing environment. The following description is based on the illustrated specific embodiment of the present invention which should not be construed as limiting other specific embodiments not discussed in detail herein.

In the following description the specific embodiments of the present invention with reference to steps and symbols of operations performed by one or more computers will be described unless otherwise stated. Therefore it will be understood that these steps and operations are performed by a computer which will be mentioned for several times later the computer including a computer processing unit manipulating electronic signals which are representative of a structured type of data. This manipulation converts the data or maintains the location of the data in a memory system of the computer which can be reconfigured or otherwise a person skilled in this art changes the way of operation of the computer in a well known manner. The data structure maintained in the physical location of the data in the memory has specific properties defined by the data format. However the principle of the present invention described in the above text does not lead to a limitation. A person skilled in the art will understand that the various steps and operations described below may also be implemented in hardware.

As used herein the terms component module system interface and so on are generally intended to refer to computer related entities for example software software in execution or a combination of hardware or hardware and software. For example a component may be a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable application program a thread in execution a program and or a computer but is not limited thereto. As illustrated in the drawings a component can be both of an application running on a controller and the controller. One or more components may be in an executed process and or thread and the components may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be the disclosed theme method apparatus or article of manufacture implemented by using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer. As used herein the term manufacture is intended to encompass any of the computer readable devices carriers or computer programs accessed by media. Of course a person skilled in the art will recognize that many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the spirit or scope of the claimed subject matter.

Although not requested embodiments are described under a universal background that computer readable instructions are executed by one or more electronic devices. The computer readable instructions may be distributed via a computer readable medium discussed below . The computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functions of computer readable instructions can be combined or distributed in various environments arbitrarily.

In other embodiments the communication device may include additional features and or functionality. For example the communication device may also include additional storage apparatuses e.g. removable and or non removable which includes but is not limited to magnetic storage devices optical storage devices and the like. Such additional storage apparatuses are illustrated by a storage device in . In one embodiment the computer readable instructions carrying out one or more embodiments provided herein may be stored in the storage device . The storage device may also store other computer readable instructions used to implement the operating system and application programs. The computer readable instructions may be loaded into memory and executed by the processing unit for example.

As used herein the term computer readable medium includes a computer storage media. The computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented by any approach or technique for storing information such as computer readable instructions and other data. The memory and the storage device are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage devices magnetic cassettes magnetic tapes magnetic disk storage devices or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium able to store desired information and be accessed by the communication device . Any such computer storage media may be a part of the communication device .

The communication device may further be allowed to establish a communication connection to communicate with other apparatuses. The communication connection may include but is not limited to a modem a network interface card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port or USB connection or other interfaces used to connect the communication device to other electronic apparatuses. The communication connection may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. The communication connection may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable medium may include the communication media. The communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data included in modulated data signals carried by for example a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes information delivery media. The term modulated data signals may include signals that one or more signal characteristics are set or changed according to the way the information is encoded into signals.

The communication device may include an input device such as a keyboard a computer mouse a digital pen a voice input device a touch input device an infrared cameras a video input device and or any other input device. The communication device may also include an output device such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device. The input device and the output device may be connected to the communication device via a wired connection a wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment the input device or output device from other electronic devices can be used as the input device or the output device of the communication device .

Components of the communication device may be connected to each other via various interconnections such as bus . Such interconnections may include Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI e.g. Fast PCI Universal Serial Bus USB FireWire IEEE 1394 optical bus structure etc. In another embodiment the components of the communication device may be interconnected via a network. For example the memory may be composed of a plurality of physical storage units at different physical locations which are interconnected via the network.

A person skilled in the art will recognize that the storage devices for storing computer readable instructions may be distributed across the network. For example the electronic device accessible via the network may store the computer readable instructions carrying out one or more embodiments provided in the present invention. The communication device may access the electronic device and download a part of or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively the communication device can download plural computer readable instructions as desired or some instructions are executed on the electronic device while some are executed on the communication device .

The present disclosure provides various operations for the embodiments. In one embodiment one or more operations may constitute one or more computer readable instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium which cause the computing device to perform the operations when be executed on the communication device. Some or all of the described sequence of operations should not be construed to imply that these operations are necessary to be dependent on the order. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that alternative orders may also have the advantages described in this specification. Moreover it should be understood that not all of the operations must be presented in each of the embodiments provided herein.

Moreover the word preferred used herein means serving as an embodiment an illustration or an example. As described herein the term preferred is not necessary to be construed as any aspect or design superior to the other aspects or designs. Instead the word exemplary manner is designed to specific concepts. In this application the term or refers to an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context X using A or B means any natural aimed inclusive replacement. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X using A or B is satisfied by any of the aforementioned circumstances.

Furthermore despite relative to one or more implementations shown and described in the present disclosure the equivalent variations and modifications based on the present specification and drawings will occur to those skilled in the art upon reading and understanding. The present disclosure includes all such modifications and variations and is only limited by the scope of the appending claims. Especially with regard to various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to indicate any component unless otherwise indicated corresponding to a specified function for example that is functionally equivalent performed by the described components even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure carrying out the functions in the exemplary implementations of the present disclosure described in the content text. In addition although a particular feature of the present disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to one of several embodiments this feature can be combined with one or more other features in the other embodiments which are expected or advantageous to any given or particular application. Moreover the terms including having with or variants thereof used in the detailed description or the claims are intended to be used in a manner similar to the term comprising .

The image frame transmission method of the present invention is a scheme provided for transmitting screen images between a mobile terminal i.e. a first communication device and a smart television i.e. a second communication device .

When the mobile terminal displays any content on a display screen the operating system copies to a display buffer area the content desired to be displayed and a display driver of the mobile terminal is responsible for displaying on the display screen the content stored in the display buffer area. The image display for the smart television having an operating system is based on the same principle. The mobile terminal of the present invention includes a smart terminal piece having an operating system for example a smart phone a tablet and a Personal Digital Assistant PDA but is not limited thereto. The working environment of the mobile terminal and the smart television of the present invention can be illustrated by the communication device shown in .

Please refer to which is a schematic structural diagram showing a mobile terminal and a smart television in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The mobile terminal of the present preferred embodiment comprises a first display module an image encoding compression module and a first network communication module . The smart television comprises a second display module an image encoding decompression module and a second network communication module . The image encoding compression module of the mobile terminal is respectively connected to the first display module and the first network communication module . The image encoding decompression module of the smart television is respectively connected to the second display module and the second network communication module . The first network communication module communicates with the second network communication module .

The first display module of the mobile terminal is utilized for transmitting an original image frame of the mobile terminal to the image encoding compression module .

The image encoding compression module of the mobile terminal is utilized for adopting the Haar wavelet function to perform row operations and column operations on the original image frame in a display buffer area of the mobile terminal to obtain first row matrices and first column matrices of the original image frame respectively adopting the Mallat algorithm to perform transformations on the first row matrices and the first column matrices to obtain a first transformed matrix and compressing the first transformed matrix and then transmitting the compressed first transformed matrix to the first network communication module .

The first network communication module of the mobile terminal is utilized for transmitting the compressed data i.e. the compressed first transformed matrix of the first transformed matrix to the second network communication module .

The second network communication module of the smart television is utilized for receiving the compressed data of the first transformed matrix transmitted by the first network communication module and transmitting it to the image encoding decompression module .

The image encoding decompression module of the smart television is utilized for decompressing the compressed data of the first transformed matrix to obtain a second transformed matrix then adopting an inverse wavelet transform function to perform row operations and column operations on the second transformed matrix to obtain second row matrices and second column matrices respectively adopting the Mallat algorithm to perform transformations on the second row matrices and the second column matrices to obtain a to be played image frame and transmitting the to be played image frame to the second display module .

The second display module of the smart television is utilized for displaying the aforesaid to be played image frame on the smart television.

The specific working principles of the mobile terminal and the smart television of the present preferred embodiment may refer to the description of an embodiment of the image frame transmission method introduced below.

Pertaining to the mobile terminal and the smart television CPU performance of such an embedded system is not very powerful. The CPU may be overloaded if it is adopted to perform compression. In the present invention the compression and decompression can be carried out by FPGA and does not occupy CPU operation resources thereby improving the system performance and accelerating the data compression speed.

Please refer to and . is a flow chart of an image frame transmission method in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The image frame transmission method of the present preferred embodiment includes the following steps.

In Step S the Haar wavelet function is adopted to perform row operations on an original image frame in a display buffer area of a first communication device e.g. a mobile terminal to obtain first row matrices and meanwhile perform column operations on the original image frame to obtain first column matrices.

In Step S the Mallat algorithm is adopted to perform transformations on the first row matrices and the first column matrices to obtain a first transformed matrix.

Specifically adopting the Mallat algorithm by the image encoding compression module to perform transformations on the first row matrices and the first column matrices to obtain the first transformed matrix is G yR yC where i 0 . . . n and G is the first transformed matrix obtained after the wavelet transformation.

In Step S the first communication device is utilized to compress the first transformed matrix and then transmit the compressed first transformed matrix to a second communication device e.g. a smart television .

The first network communication module of the mobile terminal compresses the data of the first transformed matrix and then transmits the compressed first transformed matrix to the second network communication module of the smart television . Specifically the communication between the mobile terminal and the smart television is carried out by a wired network or a wireless network. Data transmission through a network connection is well known in the art and is not described in detail herein. Specifically compressing the first transformed matrix by utilizing the image encoding compression module is carried out by obtaining a

In Step S the second communication device is utilized to decompress the compressed first transformed matrix to obtain a second transformed matrix.

After the second network communication module of the smart television receives the compressed first transformed matrix from the first network communication module of the mobile terminal the image encoding decompression module decompresses the compressed first transformed matrix to obtain the second transformed matrix. The second network communication module of the smart television receives the compressed first transformed matrix i.e. the

In Step S an inverse wavelet transform function is adopted to perform row operations on the second transformed matrix to obtain second row matrices and perform column operations on the second transformed matrix to obtain second column matrices.

Specifically the inverse wavelet transform function adopted by the image encoding decompression module of the smart television is

In Step S the Mallat algorithm is adopted to perform transformations on the second row matrices and the second column matrices to obtain a to be played image frame and the to be played image frame is transmitted to a display buffer area of the second communication device.

Specifically a matrix corresponding the to be played image frame obtained after the transformations performed by the image encoding decompression module on the second row matrices and the second column matrices by adopting the Mallat algorithm is carried out by O y R y C where i 0 . . . n and O is the matrix corresponding to the to be played image frame obtained after the inverse wavelet transformation. The matrix O is transmitted to a display buffer area of the smart television and a display driver of the smart television drives to display screen images. In such a manner transmitting the image frame data from the mobile terminal to the smart television and then displaying that on the smart television are carried out.

The present invention adopts a wavelet transform compression algorithm to compress image display data of the mobile terminal and then transmits that to the smart television. Based on an inverse wavelet transform algorithm the smart television decompresses the compressed data and after that the image display data of the mobile terminal is restored. The system can use the existing hardware to compress and decompress data which does not occupy operation resources of the mobile terminal and the smart television and can improve the system performance and accelerate the data compression speed. Also adopting the wavelet transform compression algorithm can effectively improve the data compression ratio reduce the data transmission amount in the transmission process and reduce the hardware overhead.

It should be understood that the above descriptions are merely for illustrating preferred embodiments of the present invention and are not sufficient to limit the technical schemes of the present invention. A person of ordinary skill in this field can always make modifications replacements alterations or improvements based on the above descriptions within the spirit and principle of the present invention. All of these modifications replacements alterations or improvements are within the scope as defined in the appended claims of the present invention.

