---

title: Rate-responsive, stretchable devices
abstract: Rate-dependent, elastically-deformable devices according to various embodiments can be stretched and recovered at low elongation rates. Yet they become stiff and resistive to stretching at high elongation rates. In one embodiment, a rate-dependent, elastically-deformable device includes an elastically-deformable confinement member; one or more filaments placed inside the elastically-deformable confinement member; and a fluid that substantially fills the remaining volume inside the elastically-deformable confinement member. The resistance force to extension of the device is designed to increase as the extension rate of the device increases. At low elongation rates the filaments can readily slide past each other. At high elongation rates, the fluid transforms to a less flowable material that greatly increases the force and energy required for elongation; or transforms to a non-flowable material that resists elongation. The devices thus can be stretched and recovered at low elongation rates, but become extremely stiff and resistive to stretching at high elongation rates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09303717&OS=09303717&RS=09303717
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09303717
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130626
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 670 430 filed Jul. 11 2012 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to elastic or resilient mechanical devices and in particular to rate dependent elastically deformable devices.

Springs and elastic bands are used in a range of mechanical and assistive devices to provide resilient elastic force. For example knee braces typically made out of stretchable fabrics or external linkages permit some motion to the knee but do not effectively restrict rapid motions that can lead to injury. Many joint injuries are associated with rapid twisting and translations of limbs and joints such as slipping stepping in a hole landing from a jump or planting a foot while changing direction. In fact musculoskeletal injuries i.e. twisted knees ankles and back injuries account for 82 of lost time among military personnel. Many of these injuries are associated with dynamic activities such as airdrops or jumping out of vehicles. These injuries may be further exacerbated by the approximately 100 lbs of weight in additional equipment that a soldier or warfighter may be wearing or carrying.

Rate dependent elastically deformable devices according to various embodiments can be stretched and recovered at low elongation rates. Yet they become stiff and resistive to stretching at high rates.

In one embodiment the rate dependent elastically deformable device includes an elastically deformable confinement member one or more filaments placed inside the elastically deformable confinement member and a fluid that substantially fills the remaining volume inside the elastically deformable confinement member. The resistance force to extension of the device is designed and configured to increase as the extension or elongation rate of the device increases. At low rates the filaments can readily slide past each other. At high rates the fluid transforms to a less flowable material that greatly increases the force and energy required for increased elongation or transforms to a non flowable material that resists further elongation.

The elastically deformable confinement member may be formed of rubber silicone elastomer fluoroelastomer urethane natural latex synthetic latex polymer or thermoplastic elastomer. In some embodiments the elastically deformable confinement member is a stretchable tube which may be approximately 0.01 100 mm in diameter in an initial undeformed state. Moreover the elastically deformable confinement member may include spiral wound material or folded material in order to facilitate elastic deformation. The elastically deformable confinement member might further include material or one or more layers or additives to prevent puncturing by the enclosed filaments. The fluid is contained inside the elastically deformable confinement member by crimps plugs melted ends heat crimped ends glue and or adhesives. Ends of the elastically deformable confinement member may be able to engage and or may further include an end effector for attaching to an object external to the device. The end effector may include for instance a crimp clamp spring clip threaded fastener snap on fastener glue and or adhesive.

The one or more filaments may be formed of steel polymer glass or carbon. They can be approximately 0.001 10 mm in diameter and can be monofilament or multifilament twisted untwisted or braided. In some embodiments the one or more filaments are flat flexible elements. Also the filaments may include a helical shape a wavy shape a square shape a triangular shape a sawtooth shape or a sinusoidal shape and or at least one crimp barb bump or ridge to further encourage interaction during shear. Ends of the one or more filaments can be modified to inhibit puncturing through the confinement member where the filament end modifications may include rigid smooth balls compression sleeves soft coatings filament loops low friction coatings and guide bushings or washers. At least one end of the one or more filaments may be attached to the confinement member in some embodiments.

The fluid may be a non Newtonian fluid in some embodiments such as a shear thickening fluid STF . In some instances the fluid may comprise a suspension including solid particles in a liquid with the particles being composed of polymers ceramics metals silica alumina titania clay calcium carbonate and the liquid being water an oil a polymeric liquid a glycol a fluorofluid or glycerin. In other embodiments the fluid may be an electrorheological fluid and the device is further configured to provide an electric field to the fluid or the fluid may be a magnetorheological fluid and the device is further configured to provide a magnetic field to the fluid.

According to other embodiments an apparatus may be formed of one or more of rate dependent elastically deformable devices. The apparatus may be configured as an orthotic device safety equipment sporting athletic equipment robotic assembly or mechanical assembly.

Rate dependent elastically deformable devices according to various embodiments can be stretched and recovered at low elongation rates. Yet they become stiff and resistive to stretching at high elongation rates.

The resistance force to extension of the device is designed and configured to increase as the rate of extension or rate of elongation of the device increases. The extension rate or elongation rate of the device can be expressed for example as a relative elongation of the device as a function of time or the speed velocity of the device at one of its ends which displaces with respect to the other. These rates may be measured in units such as meters sec inches sec mm sec etc. although the extension or elongation rate might also be expressed as a dimensionless strain value e.g. elongation of the device normalized by the initial device length as a function of time. This may be expressed in units of s. Other conventions might also be used for extension or elongation rates. It should also be appreciated that the terms low rate elongation and high rate elongation as used herein may be relative to a particular embodiment or application. Put another way what may be a low rate of elongation for one application may not be a low rate of elongation for another application. Similarly what may be a high rate of elongation for one application may not be a high rate of elongation for a different application. Thus a key feature of the innovative technology is the ability to judiciously tailor or otherwise configure the elongation rate response of individual devices to any particular application.

In one embodiment the elastically deformable confinement member may be formed of a stretchable elastic tube. The use of an elastic tube enables flexibility of the device in multiple directions. For some applications the tube may have an inner diameter of about 0.01 100 mm or more preferably 0.1 10 mm in an initial undeformed state. The tube may generally have a circular cross sectional shape for many applications but it should be appreciated that other cross sectional shapes are also possible such as rectangular square hexagonal etc.

The elastically deformable confinement member might also be formed into a planar shape for example formed by sealing the edges of two sheets of elastomeric materials to form an elastomeric membrane. This elastomeric body could be shaped like a square sheet round membrane or arbitrarily shaped body. An array of filaments could be enclosed in this elastomeric body and with the filaments aligned in parallel orthogonally or in any arbitrary combination of in plane orientations. The precise shape of the body and the orientation of the filaments will be dictated by the application. It should be appreciated that other stretchable configurations are also possible. For instance the outer confinement member could be formed or partially formed along its length of spiral wound or folded material which can elongate linearly when stretched like a bellows for example.

To prevent puncturing by the enclosed filaments the elastically deformable confinement member may formed of a reasonable thickness whether formed of one layer or formed of multiple layers. Wire mesh or fibers might further be incorporated into the walls of the elastically deformable confinement member for this purpose. In addition to enhance sliding of the filaments relative to the elastically deformable confinement member interior surfaces of the elastically deformable confinement member may be further provided with a low friction coating or layer of material such as Teflon .

The filaments may include be formed of wire cable ribbon band thread cord or the like of steel polymer glass carbon or other appropriate material for this purpose. The filaments may be flexible to provide flexibility of the device as well but need not be flexible for all embodiments. The filaments may be monofilament or multifilament twisted untwisted or braided. In one embodiment the filaments are flat flexible elements such as ribbons. And a pair of ribbons may be provided with ones of the pair being connected to opposite ends of the elastically deformable confinement member in some instances. The ribbons may be formed of strip shaped materials formed of nylon or metal for example. There are certain advantages to using flat ribbons including i there is more shear area between a pair of ribbons as compared to a pair of round cables so that higher force resistance to elongation is possible and ii ribbons can be stiffer than cables so the ribbon based device recovers from its stretched state i.e. relaxes faster than a cable based device.

In the preferred embodiment one end of each and every filament may be coupled to the elastically deformable confinement member preferably at or near its ends. To this end the filaments may be mechanically and or adhesively coupled to the confinement member . For mechanical attachment a crimp clamp spring clip threaded fastener snap on fastener stitch and or the like may be used. illustrate the device having filaments coupled to the ends of the elastically deformable confinement member by a crimp seal . For adhesive coupling various thermosetting or thermoplastic heat setting glues and adhesive may be used including hot melt urethane silicone epoxy acrylate or the like as some examples. If the filaments are themselves readily stretchable or elastic both of their ends could be coupled to opposite ends of the elastically deformable confinement member so as to stretch along with the elastically deformable confinement member .

In another embodiment one or more filaments in the device could be unconstrained to the confinement member . These filaments would be freely floating in the device but would provide some mechanical or viscous coupling to other filaments during device extension.

End effectors not shown may be coupled to or otherwise provide mounting points on the ends of member which may used to connect the device to other systems such as mechanical linkages. Depending of the application the end effector mounting may be permanent or readily removable. Such end effectors may include for instance threaded attachment e.g. via screws or eyehooks clips clasps buckles snaps buttons straps knots stitches stitching staples hooked fasteners clamps cotter pins nails glue adhesives or the like.

For some applications the filaments may have an outer diameter of about 0.01 10 mm in diameter or more preferably 0.1 1 mm. Smaller and larger filaments might also be used for other applications. In order to inhibit their puncturing through the outer confinement member the filaments and particularly their ends may be modified. For example filament modifications may include rigid smooth balls soft coatings filament loops low friction coatings guide bushings or washers chamfering or compression sleeves. Grinding sanding or soldering may also be used to blunt or dull the tips the filaments to inhibit puncturing through the confinement member .

Generally speaking the filaments should have some degree of stiffness for effective operation of the device . For example the filaments may be push pull cables. By push pull it is meant that the filament can readily be pushed and pulled through the fluid . Most filaments are sufficient to be pulled through a fluid because the drag between the filament and fluid tends to keep the filament in a state of tension generally unfurling the filament. However when pushed through the fluid the viscosity of the fluid tends to keep the filament in a state of compression. Thus a very thin flexible thread might not be an effective filament because it may buckle ball up or tangle up due to compressive forces between the filament and the fluid when the device retracts. To increase shearing of the fluid the filaments may further include one or more crimps barb ridges waved surfaces e.g. square triangular sawtooth or sinusoidal shaped surfaces etc. Also the filaments might be arranged in a helical or corkscrew arrangement to encourage entanglement.

One important aspect of the invention is that the resistance force to extension of the device changes and in particular increases as the extension rate of the device increases through the use the fluid . The fluid may be selected so as to change its rheological properties as the rate of extension of the device changes. For example the device may be designed so as to have a predetermined threshold rate of extension in which such a change occurs. Thus at low rates below the threshold the filaments can readily slide through the fluid and or past each other. Yet at high rates above the threshold the fluid transforms to a more rigid material or higher viscosity fluid which greatly reduces or prevents movement of the filaments through the fluid and producing a stiff linear element. Put another way the device may be thought of as being easily stretchable at low elongation rates but stiffens or locks up i.e. rigidly resists or substantially prevents any further deformation when pulled quickly at high elongation rates.

The fluid substantially fills the remaining volume inside the elastically deformable confinement member once the filaments are installed therein. The fluid may be a Newtonian or non Newtonian fluid. Newtonian fluids have a viscosity that will change with temperature but do not change with the strain rate. By contrast non Newtonian fluids have a viscosity that changes with the strain rate which may enable devices to be more tailored for certain operational performance.

In some embodiment fluid may be a shear thickening fluids STFs . STFs one type of non Newtonian fluid are materials that flow like a liquid at low deformation rates but become highly resistant to flow at high deformation rates. Exemplary thickening fluids which may be used in accordance with the embodiments of the present invention are disclosed in Norman J. Wagner and John F. Brady Shear thickening in colloidal dispersions Phys. Today 62 27 2009 herein incorporated by reference. Stretching the device at low rates does not transition the STF and the filaments are free to move through the fluid and slide past each other. If instead the device is pulled quickly high shear rates develop between the filaments and the STF material hardens binding the filaments together and providing high resistance to elongation or a stiff generally unstretchable device state. Relaxation of the force induces the STF to return to a flowable state and the device once again becomes stretchable. By using a Newtonian fluid rather than a true shear thickening fluid one can get a useful rate dependent response although the rate dependence of the response is not nearly as severe or drastic as devices containing an STF. The ideal rate dependent response of a device depends on the application. For some applications severe stiffening may be desirable to lock the device and prevent further motion. In other applications a locked response may create an undesirably severe effect instead a device that is still extensible but at considerably higher elongation forces might be more desirable. The properties of fluid can be tailored to provide the desired device response.

In some embodiments the fluid may be a suspension of solid particles in a liquid which may also be referred to as a carrier fluid or carrier liquid . For example the suspension may be formed of colloidal particles generally nano sized i.e. 1 1000 nm . Colloidal refers to the fact that the particles are intact solid particles they may not dissolve in the liquid and they are generally stabilized in the liquid so that they do not agglomerate settle or float to the surface of the liquid system over short periods of time i.e. they are stable for days weeks or longer . However devices may be constructed with a fluid that is a suspension of larger size solid particles i.e. 10 1000 m or even larger which do not dissolve in the liquid and are generally stable in the liquid too. In these devices the fluid is technically not a colloid. The term suspension as used herein is intended to encompass both colloids and suspensions of larger size solid particles in a liquid.

Depending on the type of particles and liquid and the desired non Newtonian response the solid particles may constitute 10 70 by volume of the fluid more preferably the solid particles constitute 30 60 by volume of the fluid . For examples a preferred volume fraction for spherical particles is around 50 by volume a preferred volume fraction for high aspect ratio precipitated calcium carbonate particle may be as low as 35 The liquid could be water oil a polymeric liquid a glycol a fluorofluid or glycerin for example. The colloidal particles may be composed of ceramics polymers such as poly methyl methacrylate PMMA or polystyrene or metals. Or they may comprise of silica alumina titania clay precipitated calcium carbonate or ground calcium carbonate. It is believed that precipitated calcium carbonate is more likely to be stable than ground calcium carbonate in some instances. One or more additional additives might also be included in the fluid which function as stabilizers emulsifiers surfactants pigments etc. The fluid may also include gels gums and putties.

In other embodiments the fluid may be an electrorheological fluid or a magnetorheological fluid. Electrorheological fluids include a suspension of extremely fine non conducting particles e.g. up to 50 micrometers diameter in an electrically insulating fluid. The viscosity of these fluids can change reversibly e.g. an order of up to 100 000 in response to an electric field. Magnetorheological fluids include a suspension of fine ferromagnetic particles in a liquid. When subjected to a magnetic field the fluid greatly increases its viscosity to the point of becoming a viscoeleastic solid. In the case of using an electrorheological fluid a voltage may be applied to the fluid by using a voltage generating device with opposite electrodes attached to filaments at opposite ends of the device thus creating an electric field across the fluid that would trigger a thickening response in the fluid. Similarly in the case of using a magnetorheological fluid a magnetic field generating device provided in the vicinity of the fluid for example using an electromagnet generates a magnetic field to the fluid such that the fluid can increase in viscosity or transition to a non flowable state. Suitable microcontrollers which may include known feedback or feedforward control algorithms may be further provided to control the voltage generating device and magnetic field generating device thus providing a desired fluid response.

When the device is subjected to an external tensile force the elastically deformable confinement member elongates and the one or more filaments are pulled or dragged through the fluid as it stretches. The relevant movement of the filaments through the fluid creates shearing flow s in the fluid . Some shearing flow may also be created by relevant movement of the fluid and the interior surface s of the elastically deformable confinement member and or within the fluid itself. The shearing flow of the fluid creates a force within the device which tends to resist the external tensile force that is elongating the elastically deformable confinement member .

In general the resistive force due to the shearing flow of the fluid is largely dependent on the speed or rate of elongation stretching of the elastically deformable confinement member the surface area of the filaments and or the spacing of the filaments between one another and the interior surface s of the elastically deformable confinement member . Other factors may also influence the resistive force such the cross sectional shape of the elastically deformable confinement member the shape of the filaments and or the viscosity of the fluid for instance.

As illustrated in stretching the device with an external tensile force Fin an attempt to impose low rate elongation does not create sufficient resistance force in the device such that the filaments are free to readily be pulled through the fluid and or slide past each other. Here the elastically deformable confinement member has been stretched and the filaments have been pulled and straightened somewhat and slid past each other. The fluid remains in a flowable state similar to that of the device in its initial undeformed state. Upon gradual release of the external tensile force F the elastically deformable confinement member tends to return to its initial undeformed shape and length as shown in .

On the other hand stretching the device with external tensile force Fin an attempt to impose high rate elongation as illustrated in changes the operable characteristics of the elastically deformable device . For instance if the device is pulled quickly and elongates at a high rate high shearing rates develop between the elastically deformable confinement member the filaments and the fluid . The high shearing rates cause the fluid to generate a high resistance force in the device preventing the filaments from readily sliding through the fluid and or past each other. The elastically deformable confinement member has stretched a small amount and the filaments have straightened slightly. Due to the high shearing of the fluid the fluid has now transformed into a more rigid state material . The filaments are no longer free to readily slide past one another. This results in the device transitioning to a device that is highly resistant to elongation or becomes so resistant to elongation so as to become unstretchable. The device will remain in the stiffened state as long as force is being applied to the ends of the device. If the force is relaxed the fluid will return to a flowable state like fluid and the device will gradually reduce in length back to the initial undeformed state of the material shown in .

The force versus displacement plot demonstrates the rate sensitive response of the device. The liquid here was a STF which was formulated by blending 450 nm diameter silica and ethylene glycol EG at a mass ratio of 1.92 g silica 1 g EG. The STF was dispersed using a rolling jar mixer over a period of 24 hours. The STF was then placed inside a 6.35 mm ID 7.9375 mm OD Viton tube with nylon end caps and 0.794 mm diameter stainless steel wire rope with compression sleeves on the end. The tubing was filled with shear thickening fluid by partially clamping one end of the tubing with surgical tubing forceps while slowly pouring the fluid in until the fluid reached the surgical forceps. In some cases it was helpful to apply low amounts of heat using a heat gun or to inject the fluid using a 3 mL syringe. The surgical forceps were removed and then the tubing was plugged at one end using the nylon plugs with attached wires described above. At this point the tube was gently massaged to push air bubbles to the top of the tube and more fluid was added in order to fill the void space previously occupied by the air bubbles. Afterwards the second nylon plug was inserted into the tubing.

The force versus time plot shows that the devices respond very rapidly with the high rate plateau force reached in less than 100 ms after force application. This rapid response means that there would be very little lag time between application of high elongation rate and transformation of the device to a more resistive state.

As apparent at the low elongation rates the device provides very little resistance to stretching. One the other hand as elongation rate increases the resistance to deformation force values during extension increases. Comparing the highest rate response to the lowest rate response at 100 ms the resistive force at high rate is approximately 100 higher than the resistive force at low rate. These particular embodiments of the device show a resistive force that peaks and then plateaus which could be a beneficial feature of a device. For example the long plateau force indicates high energy absorption during elongation. Also note that if the device is elongated at high rates but the available elongation force is less than the plateau force the device would essentially feel unstretchable and provide a rigid response. Other devices can be engineered with considerably higher resistive forces and resistive forces that do not plateau but reach a limiting displacement beyond which further elongation would require exceedingly high forces.

The device tested was designed to provide much higher resistance to elongation as the elongation rate increases. But it was not designed to rigidly lock up at high rates of elongation rather some elongation continued at higher rates of elongation just at much smaller degree . The device nonetheless still appeared to lock up if the force applied is less than the plateau force. While rigid locking up of the device may be useful for some applications for other applications a rigid locking effect would be too severe a response and a higher elongation force is a preferred response.

According to various embodiments of the present invention one or more rate dependent elastically deformable devices may be incorporated into various devices and apparatuses to provide rate dependent operational performance. For example in some embodiments one or more rate dependent elastically deformable devices may be incorporated into an apparatus such as an orthotic device to create rate dependent braces. Exemplary orthotic device which may be benefited in the manner may include for example head and helmet braces knee braces ankle braces back braces neck braces wrist braces slings and other orthotic devices. The rate dependent elastically deformable devices may also be provided in other wearable equipment such as shoes boots headgear belts harnesses or the like. This technology presents a new approach and thus orthotic devices that can provide higher resistance to motion during higher speed events which a soldier or athlete may encounter. These new and improved devices will be more effective at resisting unplanned loads and preventing injuries. Many joint injuries associated with rapid twisting and translations of limbs and joints such as slipping stepping in a hole landing from a jump or planting a foot while changing direction may be prevented. In other embodiments one or more rate dependent elastically deformable devices may be incorporated into safety equipment sporting athletic equipment and goods robotics restraints e.g. seat belts and mechanical assemblies. According various applications such as linkages vehicle suspension systems robotics strapping e.g. bungee type cords self tightening straps etc. clothing and woven textiles may be benefited. One device might be used as a replacement for a simple Velcro or an elastic strap.

The upper and lower portions may be formed of a conventional elastic fabric textile. Or they may be formed of a rigid or semi rigid material which comports to the curvature of the leg and knee as generally known. When worn the upper and lower portions of the brace snugly engage the knee and holds the knee brace in place on the person s leg . Adjustment straps not shown having buckles or hook and loop type e.g. Velcro fastening may be further included to better couple the brace to the leg and knee .

The knee brace further include one or more rate dependent elastically deformable devices which couple to the upper and lower portions of the brace . As shown one rate dependent elastically deformable device externally couples those elements behind in the rear of the knee . Because of the greater forces the device may be subject to in this orientation it may have a large diameter such as 1 20 mm. The device s stretches freely during normal motion of the hinged knee brace but becomes rigid during high rate motions that may cause injury.

The lengths positions number orientations and or operational characteristics of the devices in the knee braces and are strategically designed to provide optimal support. The devices incorporated into the braces or may have different characteristics. As shown in the rate dependent elastically deformable device s may be positioned in a generally parallel orientation parallel to the length of the leg in both of these knee brace embodiments. However the devices may be additionally or alternatively oriented generally orthogonally to the length of the leg and or at some angle thereto. Also the devices might further be oriented in a criss cross shape or X shape to provide greater lateral support to the knee . Other configurations are also possible. Under normal walking conditions the elements of the devices deform passively and do not resist motion. Under high loading rate potentially injurious conditions such as a knee hyperextension or knee twist during slippage the devices become rigid and greatly limit or preferably prevent further motion of the knee .

The body may be formed of a conventional elastic fabric textile. Or the body may be formed of rigid or semi rigid material which comports to the curvature of the leg foot or ankle as generally known. When worn the body snugly engages the leg foot and ankle and holds the ankle brace in place. Adjustment straps not shown having buckles or hook and loop type e.g. Velcro fastening may be further included to better couple the brace to the leg foot and ankle . These devices enable low rate extension but prevent higher rates of extension and rotation of the ankle brace .

The head and neck restraint device couples between to person s head and shoulders. As shown in the device couples between the helmet and shoulder portions of the protective vest via mounting points . Or as shown in head and neck restraint device couples between the helmet and shoulder portions of the clothing via mounting points . The mounting points may include clips clasps buckles snaps buttons straps knots stitches hooked fasteners clamps or other end effectors for example. The device further includes one or more rate dependent elastically deformable device s . A pair of devices is shown in the figures here positioned axially one on each side of the person s head. This design is not to be considered limiting other embodiments can be envisioned that use more devices different orientations and different fixturing. For instance multiple devices might be positioned axial around the entire neck in an orthotic device similar to a neck brace. Also one or more devices may be provide in a radial orientation additionally or alternatively to resist head turning or lifting motion at high rates also.

During normal operation the devices are free to stretch and do not resist head motion. Under high rate events such as a blast event or a secondary impact when a soldier is thrown into a wall or vehicle interior the devices become stiff and resist extension. Under the latter conditions loads to the helmet are transmitted directly to the shoulders rather than to the head and neck. By reducing head and neck loads the risk of injury is significantly reduced. A similar head and neck protective device is further envisioned for contact sports applications such as for football hockey or lacrosse helmets in order to reduce the likelihood of concussions during impact.

As shown in the rate dependent elastically deformable device includes an elastically deformable confinement member which houses one or more filaments as well as a fluid which substantially fills the remainder interior volume of the confinement member . Filaments may be formed of are flexible stiff filaments such as nylon ribbons. They may have a rectangular cross section in some embodiments. To confine fluid inside the elastically deformable confinement member plugs may be used. The elastically deformable confinement member may be formed of tubing may have overall length of about 6 in and an outer diameter of about 5 16 in. The filaments may have a length of 4.75 in. The plug may have a diameter of about 0.3175 in to provide a frictional or interference fit with the confinement material tubing . The plugs seal the ends of outer confinement member so as to maintain the liquid therein. Preferably this is a hermetic seal to prevent evaporation and or outgassing as well as prevent the ingress and egress of dirt debris and contaminants which could contaminate the liquid and impede operation of the device . The plugs also may serve as an attachment point for the filaments for example the plugs may be hollow in the barbed section so that one end of the filament can be placed in the hollow section then adhesive can be poured into the plug to permanently attach the filament end to the nylon plug. Furthermore the outside end of the plug provides a convenient mounting or attachment point for other hardware e.g. end effectors for coupling the device to other bodies.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

