---

title: Composite search results
abstract: Systems and methods of providing composite search results are disclosed. A search query may be received by a general purpose search engine of a first website from a user. At least one general purpose search result may be determined based on the search query using the general purpose search engine. The at least one general purpose search result may be based on a search of multiple websites. Item listing information of an item listed for sale on a second website may be determined based on the search query. The at least one general purpose search result and the item listing information may be caused to be displayed concurrently on the first website to the user. The user may be enabled to interact with the second website regarding the item by interacting with the item listing information displayed on the first website.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384286&OS=09384286&RS=09384286
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09384286
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130719
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 800 525 filed on Mar. 15 2013 and entitled COMPOSITE SEARCH LISTING which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as if set forth herein.

The present application relates generally to the technical field of data processing and in various embodiments to systems and methods of providing composite search results that include search results from both general purpose search engines and specific purpose websites.

When using the Internet users are often required to navigate from one website to another in order to pursue a topic or item of interest. However such navigation from site to site can be time consuming especially when using mobile devices. As a result users may abandon their pursuits leading to a loss of potential sales for e commerce sites.

The description that follows includes illustrative systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody illustrative embodiments. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail.

Time consuming navigation may be avoided by reducing the distance between a user s initial search query and the actual topics or items of interest. Enabling a user to interact with an e commerce website regarding an item listing from a separate general purpose website increases the likelihood that the user will complete a transaction for the item listing since the user does not need to navigate to the e commerce website and wait for the e commerce website to load.

In some embodiments a system may comprise a machine a search engine of a first website and a composite search results module. The machine may have a memory and at least one processor. The search engine may be executable by the machine and configured to receive a search query from a user accessing the first website on a device and to determine at least one search result based on the search query using the search engine. The search engine may be a general purpose search engine and the search result s may comprise at least one general purpose search result that is based on a search of multiple websites other than the first website. The composite search results module may be executable by the machine and configured to determine item listing information of an item listed for sale on a second website based on the search query where the second website is different from the first website to cause the general purpose search result s and the item listing information to be displayed concurrently on the first website to the user on the device and to enable the user to interact with the second website regarding the item listed for sale by interacting with the item listing information being displayed on the first website. In some embodiments the general purpose search result s may be based on a search of all searchable websites on the World Wide Web.

In some embodiments the composite search results module may be further configured to enable the user to initiate at least one transaction based function for the item listed for sale. In some embodiments the transaction based function s may comprise at least one of submitting a request to purchase the item listed for sale submitting a request to bid on the item listed for sale and initiating a negotiation for the item listed for sale e.g. submitting a best offer . In some embodiments the composite search results module may also be configured to enable the user to initiate other functions for the item listed for sale e.g. contacting the seller of item listed for sale to ask a question . In some embodiments the composite search results module may be further configured to enable the user to initiate these function s using at least one functionally active graphical user interface element displayed on the first website.

In some embodiments the composite search results module may be further configured to retrieve transaction information for the item listed for sale from the second website. In some embodiments the composite search results module may be further configured to use at least one remote application programming interface API of the second website in enabling the user to interact with the second website regarding the item listed for sale.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method may comprise receiving by a search engine of a first website a search query from a user accessing the first website on a device. At least one search result may be determined based on the search query using the search engine. The search engine may be a general purpose search engine and the search result s may comprise at least one general purpose search result that is based on a search of multiple websites other than the first website. Item listing information of an item listed for sale on a second website may be determined based on the search query. The second website may be different from the first website. The search result s and the item listing information may be caused to be displayed concurrently on the first website to the user on the device. The user may be enabled to interact with the second website regarding the item listed for sale by interacting with the item listing information being displayed on the first website. In some embodiments the general purpose search result s may be based on a search of all searchable websites on the World Wide Web.

In some embodiments enabling the user to interact with the second website regarding the item listed for sale may comprise enabling the user to initiate at least one transaction based function for the item listed for sale. In some embodiments the transaction based function s may comprise at least one of submitting a request to purchase the item listed for sale submitting a request to bid on the item listed for sale and initiating a negotiation for the item listed for sale e.g. submitting a best offer . In some embodiments the composite search results module may also be configured to enable the user to initiate other functions for the item listed for sale e.g. contacting the seller of item listed for sale to ask a question . In some embodiments these function s may be initiated using at least one functionally active graphical user interface element displayed on the first website.

In some embodiments determining the item listing information may comprise retrieving transaction information for the item listed for sale from the second website. In some embodiments enabling the user to interact with the second website regarding the item listed for sale may comprise using at least one remote application programming interface API of the second website.

In some embodiments a non transitory machine readable storage device may store a set of instructions that when executed by at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform the operations and method steps discussed within the present disclosure.

An API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more marketplace applications and payment applications . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases .

The marketplace applications may provide a number of marketplace functions and services to users who access the networked system . The payment applications may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment applications may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace applications . While the marketplace and payment applications and are shown in to both form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment applications may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the embodiments are of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various marketplace and payment applications and could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various marketplace and payment applications and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the marketplace and payment applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the TurboLister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the networked system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the networked system .

The networked system may provide a number of publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services. To this end the marketplace and payment applications and are shown to include at least one publication application and one or more auction applications which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The various auction applications may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding.

A number of fixed price applications support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with auction format listings and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

Store applications allow a seller to group listings within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the seller. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller. The store applications may support an online webstore such as a hosted solution where the webstore integrates with the slide checkout mechanism to enable users to easily use the webstore application on a mobile device wherein the item and item identifier are provided by the store. According to some embodiments the slide checkout cursor is configured according to input from the store such as where the cursor is designed and presented to the user having the look and feel of the store. Further the organization of the information presented to the user may be specific to the store.

Reputation applications allow users who transact utilizing the networked system to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider that where for example the networked system supports person to person trading users may otherwise have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation applications allow a user e.g. through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within the networked system over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

Personalization applications allow users of the networked system to personalize various aspects of their interactions with the networked system . For example a user may utilizing an appropriate personalization application create a personalized reference page on which information regarding transactions to which the user is or has been a party may be viewed. Further a personalization application may enable a user to personalize listings and other aspects of their interactions with the networked system and other parties. The personalization application s may integrate with the slide checkout mechanism such that the user s information is used to generate the selections and options available. In some embodiments the user is able to specify their preferences such as incorporate specific payment options addresses and other considerations. For example the user may specify that when a particular shipping address is selected then a selection to identify the item as a gift will be presented on the display when the user slides over the gift option a gift receipt is provided with the item or a gift card is provided with the item.

The networked system may support a number of marketplaces that are customized for example for specific geographic regions. A version of the networked system may be customized for the United Kingdom whereas another version of the networked system may be customized for the United States. Each of these versions may operate as an independent marketplace or may be customized or internationalized presentations of a common underlying marketplace. The networked system may accordingly include a number of internationalization applications that customize information and or the presentation of information by the networked system according to predetermined criteria e.g. geographic demographic or marketplace criteria . For example the internationalization applications may be used to support the customization of information for a number of regional websites that are operated by the networked system and that are accessible via respective web servers . The internationalization applications may integrate with the slide checkout mechanism to provide specific configurations for a geographical area. For example in Japan the display may provide the various selection items from right to left consistent with the reading order for Japanese consumers.

Navigation of the networked system may be facilitated by one or more navigation applications . For example a search application as an example of a navigation application may enable key word searches of listings published via the networked system . A browse application may allow users to browse various category catalogue or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within the networked system . Various other navigation applications may be provided to supplement the search and browsing applications.

In order to make the listings available via the networked system as visually informing and attractive as possible the applications and may include one or more imaging applications which users may utilize to upload images for inclusion within listings. An imaging application also operates to incorporate images within viewed listings. The imaging applications may also support one or more promotional features such as image galleries that are presented to potential buyers. For example sellers may pay an additional fee to have an image included within a gallery of images for promoted items.

Listing creation applications allow sellers to conveniently author listings pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via the networked system and listing management applications allow sellers to manage such listings. Specifically where a particular seller has authored and or published a large number of listings the management of such listings may present a challenge. The listing management applications provide a number of features e.g. auto relisting inventory level monitors etc. to assist the seller in managing such listings. One or more post listing management applications also assist sellers with a number of activities that typically occur post listing. For example upon completion of an auction facilitated by one or more auction applications a seller may wish to leave feedback regarding a particular buyer. To this end a post listing management application may provide an interface to one or more reputation applications so as to allow the seller conveniently to provide feedback regarding multiple buyers to the reputation applications .

Dispute resolution applications provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution applications may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a third party mediator or arbitrator.

A number of fraud prevention applications implement fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within the networked system .

Messaging applications are responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to users of the networked system such as for example messages advising users regarding the status of listings at the networked system e.g. providing outbid notices to bidders during an auction process or to providing promotional and merchandising information to users . Respective messaging applications may utilize any one of a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example messaging applications may deliver electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages via the wired e.g. the Internet Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMAX networks.

Merchandising applications support various merchandising functions that are made available to sellers to enable sellers to increase sales via the networked system . The merchandising applications also operate the various merchandising features that may be invoked by sellers and may monitor and track the success of merchandising strategies employed by sellers.

The networked system itself or one or more parties that transact via the networked system may operate loyalty programs that are supported by one or more loyalty promotions applications . For example a buyer may earn loyalty or promotion points for each transaction established and or concluded with a particular seller and be offered a reward for which accumulated loyalty points can be redeemed.

The general purpose search engine may be configured to receive a search query from a user accessing the general purpose website on a computing device e.g. laptop tablet computer smartphone and to determine at least one general purpose search result based on the search query using the general purpose search engine . For example the user may submit Samsung Galaxy S4 as the search query. The general purpose search engine may perform a general purpose search and return the general purpose search results which may include links to tech blogs and websites discussing the launch of the Samsung Galaxy S4 as well as search results from a variety of other sources external to the general purpose website .

The composite search results module may be configured to determine item listing information of item listings of an e commerce website or some other type of website different from the general purpose website based on the search query. These item listings and their related information may be stored on one or more database s of the e commerce website . The composite search results module may be configured to cause the general purpose search result s and the item listing information to be displayed concurrently on the general purpose website to the user on the device and to enable the user to interact with the e commerce website regarding the item listings by interacting with the item listing information being displayed on the general purpose website .

In some embodiments the composite search results module may be further configured to enable the user to initiate at least one transaction based function for an item listing of the e commerce website via the general purpose website without the user having to navigate to the e commerce website . In some embodiments the transaction based function s may comprise at least one of submitting a request to purchase the item listed for sale submitting a request to bid on the item listed for sale and initiating a negotiation for the item listed for sale e.g. submitting a best offer . Other transaction based functions are also within the scope of the present disclosure. In some embodiments the composite search results module may be further configured to enable the user to initiate the transaction based function s using at least one functionally active graphical user interface element displayed on the general purpose website .

In some embodiments the composite search results module may be further configured to retrieve transaction information for the item listing from the e commerce website . In some embodiments the composite search results module may be further configured to use at least one remote application programming interface API of the e commerce website in enabling the user to interact with the e commerce website regarding the item listing . The general purpose website may use the remote API s of the e commerce website to pull information about item listings based on the search query and present that information to the user on the general purpose website without the user ever having to navigate to and load the e commerce website .

The composite search results module may present the general purpose search results along with information about one or more item listings e.g. an item listing from eBay for the Samsung Galaxy S4 to the user on the general purpose website . In some embodiments the information about the item listings presented to the user on the general purpose website may comprise transactional information and may be transactionally functional. For example the user may view the item listing and perform transactional functions e.g. select a bid on or buy option for the corresponding item on the general purpose website without having to click through or otherwise navigate to the e commerce website . In some embodiments the user may perform all of the transactional functions e.g. all the way through completing the purchase of the item directly from the general purpose website without having to go to the e commerce website . In some embodiments the user may perform the initial transactional function selecting a bid or buy button or some of the transactional functions directly from the general purpose website without having to go to the e commerce website . In this respect the functionality of the e commerce website is being brought forward in the navigation process to the user at the general purpose website in order to increase the likelihood that the user will complete a transaction.

Additionally item listing information from an e commerce website may be retrieved based on the search query and then presented concurrently with the general purpose search results . As previously discussed in some embodiments the item listing information may comprise functionality that enables the user to interact with an e commerce site from which the item listing information belongs. In some embodiments the composite search results module may reach into the live item product listings of the e commerce website through remote API s of the e commerce website .

In some embodiments the item listing information may be presented in the same search result section as the general purpose search results . However it is contemplated that the item listing information may additionally or alternatively be presented in a separate section as the general purpose search results . illustrates a graphical user interface displaying composite search results where the item listing information is presented between the search field and the search results section for the general purpose search results . It is contemplated that other display configurations of the general purpose search results and the item listing information are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Although reference is made herein to the use of a general purpose website a general purpose search engine and general purpose search results it is contemplated that these elements may be replaced with a specific purpose website e.g. an e commerce or social media website a specific purpose search engine and specific purpose search results e.g. results obtained only from the specific purpose website such as the website s own item listings respectively in accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly in such embodiments the specific purpose search results may be presented to the user on the specific purpose website along with the item listing information from another website.

In the item listing information may comprise an image of an item for sale on an e commerce website as well as identifying and or descriptive information of the item. In some embodiments the item may be offered for auction. Accordingly the item listing information may comprise auction related information including but not limited to remaining time for the auctioning of the item and bid information e.g. current bid number of bids for the item. The item listing information may also comprise user interface elements to enable the user to perform transaction related functions for the item. For example the item listing information may comprise a user input field for the user to provide a bid amount as well as a selectable Place bid button to enable the user to submit the provided bid amount to the e commerce website . It is contemplated that other transaction related functions and user interface elements to perform those functions are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

The item listing information may also comprise a selectable Seller Information user interface element to enable the user to find out information about the seller of the item. For example as seen in the user may click on the Seller Information user interface element and be presented with seller information e.g. seller ID and feedback rating . The seller information may be retrieved from the e commerce website without the user having to navigate to the e commerce website .

The item listing information may also comprise a selectable More Results user interface element to enable the user to see more item listings that are based on the search query submitted by the user to the general purpose search engine or that are related to the current item being presented to the user . For example as seen in the user may click on the More Results user interface element and be presented with additional item listing information which may include images of additional items and their corresponding prices e.g. current bid price . The additional item listing information may be retrieved from the e commerce website without the user having to navigate to the e commerce website .

It is contemplated that other types of item listing information are also within the scope of the present disclosure. Such information may be retrieved from the e commerce website and presented to the user along with general purpose search results without the user having to navigate to the e commerce website .

In some embodiments item listing information and general purpose search results may be presented to the user before the user is finished entering the entire search query. illustrates a graphical user interface displaying composite search results in accordance with some embodiments where item listing information and general purpose search results are provided to the user before the user is finished entering the entire search query. When the user is typing a keyword into the search field as the user is entering the characters of the keyword suggested query terms may be provided in an auto fill or auto complete box .

The general purpose search engine may perform multiple operations behind the scenes in the background to understand what the user intent is in order to personalize the experience for the user . For example when attempting to enter the keyword Samsonite even though the user may have only entered sam the general purpose search engine may determine that the user is looking for bags so it may provide Samsonite higher in the auto fill box than Samsung .

In some embodiments the general purpose search engine may use a suggested query for real time retrieval of item listing information which may then be presented to the user in the auto fill box before the user has even completed entering and submitting the keyword for search. The general purpose search engine may use user history brand preferences immediate context e.g. user searching for travel items as well as other signals to predict the keyword. In the example above as soon as the user starts typing sam the general purpose search engine may be able to predict the keyword and use it to retrieve item listing information .

In some embodiments item listing information presented in the auto fill box may have transactional functionality as previously discussed. In some embodiments the composite search results module may use remote API s to obtain the item listing information for the auto fill box . The general purpose search engine may take the predicted keyword package it and search for it on another website site e.g. the e commerce website using one or more remote API s of the other website.

As previously mentioned although reference is made herein to the use of a general purpose website a general purpose search engine and general purpose search results it is contemplated that these elements may be replaced with a specific purpose website e.g. an e commerce or social media website a specific purpose search engine and specific purpose search results e.g. results obtained only from the specific purpose website such as the website s own item listings respectively in accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly in such embodiments the specific purpose search results may be presented to the user on the specific purpose website along with the item listing information from another website.

It is contemplated that any of the features and or embodiments discussed herein may be combined or incorporated into any of the other features and or embodiments.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the network of and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

A computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the static memory .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and compact disc read only memory CD ROM and digital versatile disc or digital video disc read only memory DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

