---

title: System and method for reviewing travel trips
abstract: A mobile communication device includes a global positioning system (GPS) capability, a digital processor, digital memory, a display screen, and a software (SW) application executing by the processor, the SW providing determining and recording a start of a trip, tracking location of the vehicle after trip start, interpreting data and recording an acceleration event, a deceleration event or a speeding event, recording fuel volume during the trip, determining and recording an end of the trip; and an interactive display including an address at the start and the end of the trip, separated by a timeline for the trip, a vehicle icon moveable along the timeline, icons specific to event type at locations along the timeline representing the acceleration, deceleration and speeding events determined during the trip, and a summary box providing a distance and duration of the trip and fuel efficiency and fuel cost for the trip.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09423269&OS=09423269&RS=09423269
owner: Automatic Labs, Inc.
number: 09423269
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131009
---
The present application claims priority to the filing date of Provisional Patent Application PPA with Ser. No. 61 711 917 filed Oct. 10 2012. All disclosure of the referenced PPA is incorporated in the present application at least by reference.

The present invention is in the field of computer implemented inventions and pertains more specifically to managing data for a traveler and displaying to the traveler details about trips taken in a vehicle.

Many systems are available in the art that collect information allow users to enter information and then use the information collected and entered to display to a user certain aspects of activity to which the entered and collected information pertains. For example there are programs for general purpose computers that enable a user to take his or her blood pressure blood oxygen content and the like and then may display to the user graphs or charts so the user may readily see how her blood pressure has trended over a period of days or weeks.

One area of interest to the present inventors is information related to trips a user may take in a vehicle. Typically vehicles like personal automobiles are not equipped to monitor and record things like location with GPS speed acceleration and deceleration addition of fuel usage of fuel and the like.

What is needed is a coded program that may execute on a mobile device such as a smart phone for example equipped with GPS and an accelerometer and an ability for a user to enter information that may then display to the user for individual trips rich information about each trip such as duration incidences of rapid acceleration and deceleration and the time and location of same and similar information about trips. Such a system will provide to a user a means of managing expenses in driving motivation to change driving behavior and much more.

In an embodiment of the invention a mobile communication device is provided comprising global positioning system GPS capability a digital processor a non transitory digital memory coupled to the processor a display screen and a software SW application executing by the processor the SW providing determining and recording a start of a trip in which the mobile communication device is carried in a vehicle the recording including a geographic location determined by GPS coordinates associated with geographic data tracking location of the vehicle after trip start by the GPS system and recording the tracking data interpreting the tracking data and recording an acceleration event a deceleration event or a speeding event when vehicle velocity as determined by position over time by the GPS exceeds a preprogrammed acceleration deceleration or speed the recorded event including magnitude and duration of the event recording fuel volume at start addition of fuel during the trip and usage of fuel during the trip determining and recording an end of the trip the recording including a geographic location determined by GPS coordinates associated with geographic data and an interactive display on the display screen of the mobile communication device the interactive display including a display in text of an address at the start location and the end location of the trip separated by a timeline for the trip a vehicle icon moveable along the timeline icons specific to event type at locations along the timeline representing the acceleration deceleration and speeding events determined during the trip and a summary box providing a distance and duration of the trip and fuel efficiency and fuel cost for the trip.

In one embodiment the mobile communication device is coupled wirelessly by near field pairing to a Link device connected to an Onboard Diagnostics OBD connector of the vehicle enabling the device to access data from the OBD system for use in the trip recording and event determinations. Also in one embodiment the mobile communication device is coupled wirelessly by a cellular network and an Internet gateway to an Internet connected server hosted by an enterprise the Internet connected server providing data useful by the mobile communication device in the trip recording and event determinations.

In one embodiment the SW application is originally provided to the device by the Internet connected server. Also in one embodiment start and end of the trip is entered by a user of the device and vehicle through input mechanisms of the mobile communication device. Still in one embodiment fueling events during the trip including amount and cost of fuel are entered by a user of the device and vehicle through input mechanisms of the mobile communication device.

In some embodiments the SW application is executed remotely on the Internet connected server and data is transmitted between the Internet connected server and the mobile communication device via an Internet connection. Also in some embodiments multiple trips are recorded and the interactive display on the display screen of the mobile communication device shows more than one trip along the timeline and is scrollable to show more recorded trips taken by a user of the vehicle.

In some embodiment the vehicle icon is moveable by touch or by click and drag and positioning the vehicle icon at an event icon additional detail about the event is displayed and in some embodiments the display includes an input to cause a display of the trip on a map which may be zoomed in or out to display additional or less geographic detail.

In some embodiments events determined for the trip are displayed along the path of the vehicle on the map where the events occurred. Also in some embodiments tapping or clicking as appropriate for display screen type on text boxes and icons causes additional information about events or data to be displayed. In other embodiments data for a trip is enabled to be downloaded from the mobile communication device to a portable memory device or to a computerized appliance in a form that may be coherently displayed transmitted to other devices and printed.

Also illustrated in is a service module enabled to connect to On Board Diagnostics OBD systems in various vehicles. The inventors term this module a Link device which is in itself unique and which is taught and claimed in another application.

Link in various embodiments of the present invention is connected to the OBD Port of a vehicle as is shown in and acts like a wireless gateway to the vehicle s OBD system through the vehicle s OBD port. Link presents itself as an Application Programming Interface API which is accessible wirelessly. Capabilities of the Link are available for use by any application written to leverage these APIs.

Link is capable of reading various diagnostics information such as amount of fuel left in a gas tank or charge left on a battery of a battery powered vehicle. OBD systems provide a great deal of such information. Link also has Bluetooth pairing capability or other near field wireless communication capability and is thus enabled to pair with device to provide OBD data in real time.

Device described in detail above has access through cellular network having base station and an Internet gateway via path to Internet backbone representing all connections and interconnections in the Internet network. Server is connected to backbone . Thus a user of device having an Internet browser application may access one or more web page at server enabling the user to download to device a version of SW according to an embodiment of the invention. Versions of SW may be provided having a different range of functionality and may be specifically enabled to execute on specific types of devices using different operating systems.

In alternative embodiments SW may be provided in other ways to a user. A user for example may purchase a version of SW that may be delivered on a disk or a thumb drive and use a general purpose computer to transfer the SW to device . There are many possibilities.

SW in various embodiments when executed on device or by server provides a system enabling a user to track activities and occurrences in trips taken in a vehicle accompanied by device . The device itself when SW is executing as initiated by a user tracks the vehicles location same as device location and records velocity data acceleration and deceleration and time of day and date as well as other data in some versions of the SW in a manner that SW may use to calculate and store data in different ways. The SW may for example note a very sudden deceleration from a velocity followed by a stationary location for a threshold time and interpret that series of events as an accident. The SW may be enabled to place an emergency call under such a circumstance. The SW may note instances of speeding determined by device velocity and knowledge of speed limit at the GPS location when the speeding is recorded and issue an alert in some manner to the driver. There are many possibilities.

An important function of the SW is to track activities and characteristics during a trip where the beginning and end points may be set by a user or determined automatically by SW . The device through SW may for example determine a vehicle is parked by noting that it has not moved for more than 30 minutes for example. The device when the vehicle same location as the device begins to move again may determine and record that a new trip is being tracked and keep recording data until determining that the vehicle is parked again. In another embodiment there may be inputs specific for a user to inform the device that a new trip is commencing and also to inform the device when the trip is finished. The two norms may work together for example the device may identify and start the tip and the user may inform the end of the trip.

During a specific trip the device through SW records vehicle speed and perhaps direction as well associated with date and time of day throughout duration of the trip. The device may have preprogrammed thresholds for determining sudden braking events excessive speed events and the like through GPS location data associated with passing time or may have a built in accelerometer useful for such determination. In some embodiments the device may access information at server for use in determinations by SW . For example in some embodiments when a driver stops for fuel device may access date at server for fuel price. Server in these embodiments maintains an extensive database updated periodically of fuel prices indifferent locations such as within the boundaries of Oakland Calif. This data cannot of course be accurate for every service station but will be very close. Db may store extensive data of other sorts as well for use by SW . One such body of data is a map of different locations that may be data in a trip recorded by device through SW . In some embodiments server accesses Google Maps for map data to display in cooperation with a device and SW . Data input to device and SW is also in some embodiments made available through OBD connected Link .

Device also enabled the user to input data such as fuel price and volume pumped at specific points in a trip when the driver stops for fuel. In some embodiments there may be facility for a user to input specific notes to be used in a preprogrammed manner by SW . So in various embodiments data required for calculation and preparation of outputs of device is available from a variety of sources.

In display the recording of a trip is locked into date and time for all activities and events and the time line is vertical in the display from the bottom up. The display also is always just a partial display of recorded trips and is scrollable either upward to see more recent trips or downward to see trips further in the past. The display on an interactive touch screen in many embodiments may be scrolled by gentle stroke with a user s finger as is well known in many devices having touch screens. In some embodiments other means of scrolling may be provided such as a conventional scroll bar.

Returning now to display vehicle icon is shown at the top of the vehicle path and label provides the location of the vehicle as parked at 550 1st St. in Sonoma Calif. In some embodiments a user may tap on label and the system will respond by displaying a map of Sonoma showing the location of the parked vehicle in Sonoma.

There are summary reports of three trips shown in the display of . A first trip shown is from 703 Main Street San Francisco Calif. to 550 41st Street Sonoma Calif. The summary report for this trip indicates the distance traveled was 12.4 miles the duration was 19 minutes and the cost in fuel was 1.25. On the left at the fuel efficiency for the trip is indicated as 17 mpg.

A second trip is shown as proceeding from 550 41st Street Sonoma Calif. to 35 Main Street Sonoma Calif. . For this trip as shown in summary report the distance traveled was 48.3 miles the duration was 53 minutes and the fuel cost was 4.23. Fuel efficiency at is shown to be 20 mpg. Perhaps the user drove around Sonoma for a considerable time instead of driving directly to the second address from the first.

A third trip is shown as commencing at 35 Main St. Sonoma Calif. and proceeding to 550 41st St. Sonoma Calif. . Summary report indicates this trip was 49.1 miles duration was 48 minutes fuel cost was 3.87 and fuel efficiency was 25 mpg. Again Sonoma must be a big place.

Some notable events occurring during trips are indicated along path at the time they occurred. Two events are sudden acceleration events and are indicated by a particular triangular icon pointing upward and occurred during the second trip. One sudden deceleration event shown as a particular icon pointing downward is indicated during the second trip displayed. A speeding event also indicated by a particular icon is shown during the first trip.

As described above more trips may be reviewed in display by scrolling. Also in many embodiments a user may drag vehicle icon to other positions in path . Dragging vehicle to a position in the path adjacent to summary may in some embodiments cause the system to display additional information about the trip. In one embodiment the additional information will be a map of the trip. Positioning the vehicle at one of the acceleration deceleration or speeding events will in some embodiments cause the display to indicate further detail about these events such as for example for a deceleration event the speed decrease over the time that caused the system to record a deceleration event. There are coded instructions at server or in the app running on device that have specific conditions for comparison against events recorded during a trip and determining an acceleration deceleration or speeding event. The system also has stored data updated periodically for speed limits in all areas that a user s vehicle may travel.

Information provided by the system in display to the user is not limited to display in the summary panels such as panels and . Such additional information may be presented in pop up windows for example that may be connected to the icon of the event.

In some embodiments the record of trips may be downloaded from device or from server in segments either as individual trips or as groups of adjacent trips in a manner that the record may be emailed or transmitted to others and may be displayed on a monitor computerized appliance such as a pad device of a laptop computer and may be printed. This record can be limited to a summary report or can have any level of detail including all of the data stored for the trips.

Many drivers today have little insight into how their driving habits impact their vehicle s fuel efficiency safety and cost of gasoline. Further because filling up at a pump or a charger occurs infrequently relative to the vehicle trips people take drivers often lack an intuition for the cost of their individual trips or the cost of their driving habits overall. The present invention in several embodiments for reviewing trips allows users to review the trips they ve taken in a timeline following a vertically animated vehicle as it moves from location to location along the user s driving path. The vertical space between each location represents the trip s length and contains trip statistics like distance and time travelled average fuel efficiency MPG fuel efficiency over time and fuel cost . The display also presents safety events such as sudden braking maneuvers fast accelerations and incidents of speeding all of which can negatively impact fuel efficiency and driver safety of which many drivers are currently unaware.

Elements of the overall system in various embodiments of the invention include the Link device which is capable of accessing data from the vehicle s OBD system and is capable of providing the OBD information to a user s mobile device . The user s device is an essential element in embodiments of the invention and monitors vehicle activity through on board systems such a GPS and in some cases an accelerometer. Device also maintains communication with Internet connected server which provides many services including the application that executes in device to provide practice of the invention and data of many sorts useful in embodiments of the invention.

In some embodiments connection to server is not necessary and Link device is not used. In these embodiments all data and function is provided by device executing SW . In some other embodiments device and Link device are used but not with connection to server . In these embodiments device has access to information from the vehicle s OBD system. In other embodiments Link device device and server are all involved and this embodiment provides maximum functionality.

It will be apparent to the skilled person that there are many versions and embodiments of the present invention that may not be explicitly described in this specification. The specification provides examples of elements and practice of the invention in several ways to teach the apparatus and practice of the invention in enabling fashion. The invention however may be practiced in many instances by altering one or more details. For example there are many ways that text may be displayed in the interactive display of and selecting a different display technique that is not explicitly described herein does not constitute a new invention. Al such alterations are within the scope of the present invention which scope is limited by the claims that follow.

