---

title: Implant delivery and deployment system and method
abstract: An implant delivery system comprising a catheter including at least one lumen, an implant configured to be received in the lumen, and a latching mechanism configured to be received in the implant. The latching mechanism may be configured to releasably couple the implant to a delivery wire and to transmit a torque through the delivery wire to cause at least a portion of the implant to rotate. The an implant may comprise a shaft, a spacer configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position, a garage configured to couple the spacer to a first end region of the shaft, and at least one anchor mechanism. The garage may define a cavity configured to receive the latching mechanism and to increase rotational and translational stability of the latching mechanism.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09517129&OS=09517129&RS=09517129
owner: Cardio Solutions, Inc.
number: 09517129
owner_city: West Bridgewater
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130813
---
The subject application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 545 927 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 506 623 filed Jul. 10 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 431 399 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 216 302 filed Apr. 28 2009 which is a continuation in part U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 092 525 filed on Oct. 26 2005 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 940 694 filed Nov. 15 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 filed Sep. 12 2008 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to the repair and or correction of dysfunctional heart valves and more particularly pertains to heart valve implants and systems and methods for delivery and implementation of the same.

A human heart has four chambers the left and right atrium and the left and right ventricles. The chambers of the heart alternately expand and contract to pump blood through the vessels of the body. The cycle of the heart includes the simultaneous contraction of the left and right atria passing blood from the atria to the left and right ventricles. The left and right ventricles then simultaneously contract forcing blood from the heart and through the vessels of the body. In addition to the four chambers the heart also includes a check valve at the upstream end of each chamber to ensure that blood flows in the correct direction through the body as the heart chambers expand and contract. These valves may become damaged or otherwise fail to function properly resulting in their inability to properly close when the downstream chamber contracts. Failure of the valves to properly close may allow blood to flow backward through the valve resulting in decreased blood flow and lower blood pressure.

Mitral regurgitation is a common variety of heart valve dysfunction or insufficiency. Mitral regurgitation occurs when the mitral valve separating the left coronary atrium and the left ventricle fails to properly close. As a result upon contraction of the left ventricle blood may leak or flow from the left ventricle back into the left atrium rather than being forced through the aorta. Any disorder that weakens or damages the mitral valve can prevent it from closing properly thereby causing leakage or regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation is considered to be chronic when the condition persists rather than occurring for only a short period of time.

Regardless of the cause mitral regurgitation may result in a decrease in blood flow through the body cardiac output . Correction of mitral regurgitation typically requires surgical intervention. Surgical valve repair or replacement is carried out as an open heart procedure. The repair or replacement surgery may last in the range of about three to five hours and is carried out with the patient under general anesthesia. The nature of the surgical procedure requires the patient to be placed on a heart lung machine. Because of the severity complexity danger associated with open heart surgical procedures corrective surgery for mitral regurgitation is typically not recommended until the patient s ejection fraction drops below 60 and or the left ventricle is larger than 45 mm at rest.

Referring to a perspective view of one embodiment of a percutaneous delivery system for delivering and or recapturing a mitral valve implant within the heart is shown. The delivery system may include a mitral valve implant a delivery catheter a guidewire and a deployment clamping mechanism configured to releasably couple the implant to a delivery wire not shown . The implant may comprise a spacer a shaft or stop tube and an anchoring mechanism . In general the mitral valve implant may be delivered within the heart and anchored to the native coronary tissue as generally illustrated in such that at least a portion of the spacer is disposed proximate a mitral valve and the mitral valve implant may interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation for example as discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 filed on Sep. 12 2008 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IMPLANTING A HEART IMPLANT the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. For example at least a portion of one or more cusps of the heart valve may interact with engage and or seal against at least a portion of the heart valve implant for example but not limited to the spacer when the heart valve is in a closed condition. The interaction engagement and or sealing between at least a portion of at least one cusp and at least a portion of the heart valve implant may reduce and or eliminate regurgitation in a heart valve for example providing insufficient sealing including only a single cusp e.g. following removal of a diseased and or damaged cusp and or having a ruptured cordae. A heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be used in connection with various additional and or alternative defects and or deficiencies.

As shown the delivery system may include a delivery catheter for example but not limited to a steerable delivery catheter configured to be percutaneously introduced or inserted into one or more vessels of the body e.g. one or more veins and or arteries and conveyed to the heart for delivery and or recapture of the mitral valve implant . Conveyance of the catheter and or of the mitral valve implant to the heart may be directed and or assisted by monitoring the travel of the catheter e.g. via radiographic and or other imaging techniques and or by passing the catheter through another larger catheter already in place not shown . The catheter may have a length and outer diameter configured to extend from the incision site in the patient s body through one or more veins and or arteries to the desired location within the heart e.g. the left ventricle .

The catheter may define at least one lumen having an internal diameter configured to receive and convey the guidewire the deployment mechanism and the implant from a proximal end of the catheter to a distal end of the catheter . The catheter may include a flexible material having sufficient rigidity strength and inner lubricity to be guided through the blood vessels to the heart and to convey the implant . For example the catheter may include a combination or combinations of polymeric and or metallic materials having an inner diameter of between 5 French size and 50 French size an outer diameter of between 0.004 inches 0.250 inches larger than the corresponding inner diameter and a length of between 10 centimeters and 200 centimeters.

The guidewire may be configured to be disposed within the lumen of the catheter and may have a length greater than the length of the catheter . The guidewire may include a flexible wire having sufficient strength and or rigidity to convey and or urge the implant through the lumen of the catheter . For example the guidewire may include a combination or combinations of polymeric and or metallic materials having a diameter of between 0.004 inches and 0.060 inches and a length of between 100 centimeters and 500 centimeters. Consistent with at least one embodiment herein the guidewire may have a diameter of 1 32 .

Turning now to an implant consistent with at least one embodiment of herein is illustrated. The implant may comprise a spacer or valve body portion for example a resiliently deformable spacer configured to be received in the lumen of the catheter which may be coupled to a shaft . The shaft may be coupled to at least one anchor portion mechanism configured to couple attach and or otherwise secure the mitral valve implant to native coronary tissue . According to one embodiment at least a portion of the anchor mechanism may include a generally helical screw or the like configured to be at least partially screwed into the native coronary tissue .

The spacer may comprise a spacer cage having at least a portion of the outer surface covered with a balloon . The spacer cage and or the balloon may comprise a resiliently flexible structure configured to at least partially collapse from an expanded position as illustrated to a retracted or collapsed position. When in the collapsed position the spacer cage and balloon may be configured to be received in and advanced along the lumen of the delivery catheter . When in the expanded position the spacer cage and balloon may be configured to interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve e.g. at least one cusp to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation as generally illustrated in .

The spacer cage may comprise a frame or ribbed structure for example a frame of resilient flexible material such as but not limited to shape memory materials for example but not limited to nickel titanium compositions e.g. Nitinol or the like . The spacer cage may comprise a plurality of support structures or ribs extending generally along the longitudinal axis of the implant . The support structures may be configured to resiliently bend radially inwardly and or outwardly for example to facilitate loading of the implant within the delivery catheter and or to facilitate sealing with the mitral valve . The number and location of the support structures may depend upon the particulars of the patient s condition as well as the desired flexibility and desired shape of the spacer . For example the implant may comprise between 5 to 12 support structures .

The balloon may be configured to be at least partially disposed about the outer surface of the spacer cage . The balloon may comprise a resilient flexible biologically acceptable material. For example the balloon may comprise Elasteon material or the like configured to generally encapsulate the outer surface of the spacer cage. The balloon may be coupled or otherwise secured to at least a portion of one or more of the support structures for example but not limited to overmolding adhesives and or laminating and or may be only secured about the ends of the spacer cage .

The spacer may therefore be configured to interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation. As such the configuration and or geometries of the spacer may depend upon the particulars of the condition of the patient s mitral valve and the damage thereto. The implant may have sufficient overall flexibility to facilitate advancement of the implant within the delivery catheter to minimize the potential of the implant becoming wedged or stuck within the delivery catheter . In addition the implant may also have sufficient overall rigidity to maintain the spacer within the mitral valve such that the implant performs as intended.

The spacer may optionally include a garage configured to couple the spacer to the shaft or stop tube . Consistent with at least one embodiment herein the support structures of the spacer cage may be coupled to the garage for example about a first end region of the garage . A proximal end region of the stop tube may be coupled to a second end region of the garage generally opposite the first end region . The distal end region of the stop tube may be coupled to a can configured to receive at least a portion of an anchoring device for example the helical screw . A portion of the can for example but not limited to the distal end region may include a sheath or pledget configured to stimulate ingrowth of the native coronary tissue over time and to further anchor or secure the implant to the tissue. The garage may also define a cavity configured to engage with the deployment mechanism as described herein.

Turning now to a cross sectional view of an implant is generally illustrated including a deployment mechanism . As will be explained in greater detail herein the deployment mechanism is configured to be releasably coupled to the implant such that the implant may be advanced through the delivery catheter and secured to the native coronary tissue of the patient s heart for example the wall of the left ventricle proximate the apex . According to at least one embodiment the deployment mechanism may be configured to advance the implant through the delivery catheter to the implant site rotate the implant to secure the anchoring mechanism to the tissue and release the implant .

The deployment mechanism may comprise a sleeve configured to releasably engage a latching mechanism . The sleeve may comprise a generally flexible tubing such as but not limited to a poly tetrafluoroethylene PTFE tube defining an lumen or passageway . The sleeve may be configured to be disposed within the lumen of the delivery catheter and extend from within the implant for example but not limited to from the spacer and or the garage and out beyond the proximal end of the delivery catheter . The sleeve may also have an outer surface having a size and or shape configured to be received within the chamber or cavity of the garage . For example the sleeve may have an outer configuration configured to engage the garage cavity and to provide rotational and or lateral stability of the sleeve and or the latching mechanism as is discussed further herein. According to at least one embodiment consistent herein the sleeve and the cavity of the garage may have a generally cylindrical configuration however the sleeve and or the cavity may have other shapes configured to provide rotational and or lateral stability of the sleeve and or the latching mechanism . For example the sleeve and or the cavity may have a non circular cross section such as but not limited to a rectangular triangular or hexagonal shape or the like.

The latching mechanism may comprise a first latch pin configured to cooperate with a second latch pin to form a releasable connection. The first latch pin may be coupled to a delivery wire configured to be received within the lumen of the sleeve and to extend beyond the distal end of the sleeve .

The second latch pin may be coupled to a portion of the implant such as but not limited to the spacer stop tube and or the anchoring mechanism . For example the second latch pin may be coupled to a first end region of an anchoring wire . The anchoring wire may extend through a lumen or passageway of the stop tube and a second end region may be coupled to the anchoring mechanism for example the helical screw . Optionally one or more centering inserts may be provided along the length of the anchoring wire . For example one or more inserts may be provided within the can and or the stop tube . The inserts may include an opening passageway configured to receive the anchor wire to keep the anchor wire centered with respect to the implant and minimize buckling and or kinking of the anchor wire during the deployment of the implant . The inserts may be integrally formed with or a separate element from the can or stop tube .

Turning now to one embodiment of the first and second latch pins is illustrated in an uncoupled and coupled position respectively. The first and second latch pins may each have a generally C shaped engagement potion . At least one of the engagement portions may define a cavity or recess configured to receive a tab or protrusion of the other engagement portion as generally illustrated in . The engagement portions may also have a variety of other configurations configured to form a connection.

The first and second latch pins of the latching mechanism may be held in place in the coupled position by the sleeve as generally illustrated in . For example the sleeve and the first and second latch pins may have a size and or shape configured to substantially prevent the first and second latch pins from moving relative to one another and to provide rotational and or lateral stability when the latching mechanism is received within the sleeve. To decouple the latching mechanism the sleeve may be pulled back i.e. pulled proximally away from the heart to expose one or more of the first and second latch pins . Once at least one of the first and second latch pins is exposed the delivery wire may be moved for example twisted rotated or the like to decouple the first and second latch pins .

As discussed above the anchoring mechanism of the implant may also include a helical screw coupled to the anchoring wire and a stop mechanism . The helical screw may be configured to be advanced from a retracted position in which the helical screw is substantially disposed entirely within the can as generally illustrated in to an extended position in which the helical screw is configured to engage the heart tissue as generally illustrated in . The implant may be advanced through the delivery catheter while in the retracted position. Retracting the helical screw within the can while advancing the implant through the delivery catheter may facilitate loading and or advancing the implant through the delivery catheter by minimizing the likelihood that the anchoring mechanism may become jammed within the lumen of the delivery catheter . Alternatively a portion of the helical screw for example the distal most end region may be disposed beyond the can .

The stop mechanism may be configured to control the maximum depth that the helical screw may be extended from the can thereby controlling the maximum depth that the helical screw may be inserted into the native coronary tissue when securing the implant . Consistent with at least one embodiment herein the stop mechanism may comprise a threaded region disposed within the can of the anchoring mechanism . The threaded region may may have a thread pitch and size substantially corresponding to a first portion of the helical screw . As such the first portion of the helical screw may be rotated and threaded through the threaded region of the stop mechanism to advance the helical screw out of the can from the retracted position as generally illustrated in to the extended position as generally illustrated in .

The helical screw may also include a second portion having a pitch for example but not limited to a zero pitch which cannot pass through the threaded region . As the anchoring wire is rotated e.g. from a rotational torque applied to the delivery wire and transmitted through the latching mechanism the first region of the helical screw may be threaded through the stop mechanism until the second region engages e.g. binds against the threaded region of the stop mechanism . As such the stop mechanism may be configured to control the maximum depth that the helical screw may be extended from the can thereby controlling the maximum depth that the helical screw may be inserted into the native coronary tissue when securing the implant in the heart .

To deliver the implant the first and second latch pins of the latching mechanism may be coupled together as generally illustrated in and loaded into the distal end region of the sleeve as generally illustrated in . The sleeve may be configured to keep the first and second latch pins of the latching mechanism secured together by generally preventing movement of the first and second latch pins relative to each other. The distal end region of the sleeve including the first and second latch pins may then be received into the implant for example into the cavity formed by the garage as generally illustrated in . The arrangement configuration of the garage and the sleeve may provide rotational stability to the first and second latch pins of the latching mechanism when a force or torque is applied to the delivery wire .

With distal end of the sleeve and the first and second latch pins of the latching mechanism disposed within the can as generally illustrated in the implant may be loaded into and advanced through the delivery catheter by using a pusher for example but not limited to a low density polyethylene tube or the like . The pusher may be received into the delivery catheter after the implant and may urge the implant through the delivery catheter .

The implant may be advanced through the delivery catheter until the anchoring mechanism of the implant is disposed proximate the distal end region of the delivery catheter as generally illustrated . As the implant is advanced through the delivery catheter the sleeve may be maintained around the latching mechanism to ensure that the latching mechanism remains coupled. Additionally the dimensional tolerances between the garage cavity and the sleeve as well as the latching mechanism and the sleeve may increase the rotational and or lateral stability of the latching mechanism . Once the anchoring mechanism is disposed proximate the distal end region of the delivery catheter and the delivery catheter is in the appropriate location within the heart for example but not limited to proximate the apex of the left ventricle a translational force may be applied to the pusher to urge the anchoring mechanism of the implant e.g. but not limited to the can against the native coronary tissue in the heart .

A torque may also be applied to the delivery wire and transmitted through the latching mechanism and the anchoring wire causing the helical screw to rotate within the stop mechanism as generally illustrated . The delivery wire may have sufficient flexibility to pass through the delivery catheter while also having sufficient rigidity to resist buckling or kinking under load. According to one embodiment the delivery wire may include a 1 32 wire. The translational force applied to the pusher may urge the can against the native coronary tissue . As a result the torque applied to the delivery wire and anchor wire may cause the helical screw of the anchoring mechanism to rotate with respect to the can while keeping the can and the remainder of the implant substantially stationary.

As the anchoring mechanism is rotated the helical screw may be advanced from the retracted position to the extended position in which at least a portion of the helical screw is exposed beyond the distal end of the can as generally illustrated in . The dimensional tolerances between the garage cavity and the sleeve as well as the latching mechanism and the sleeve lumen may increase the rotational and or lateral stability of the latching mechanism . Additionally the centering inserts may increase the rotational and or lateral stability of the anchoring wire within the implant during rotation of the helical screw . The helical screw may be threaded into the tissue of the heart until the second region of the helical screw engages against e.g. binds the stop mechanism . The stop mechanism may therefore control the maximum depth that the helical screw may be threaded into the native coronary tissue and may reduce the potential of the helical screw puncturing through the opposite side of the heart . Additional long term fixation of the implant may be provided by the pledget disposed about the distal end region of the anchoring mechanism .

Once the helical screw of the implant is secured to the native coronary tissue the distal end region of the sleeve may be pulled back i.e. towards the proximal end of the delivery catheter to expose one or more of the latching pins . Once exposed the delivery wire may be rotated to decouple the latching pins and therefore decouple the delivery wire from the implant . The delivery wire along with the first latching pin may then be pulled back and removed from the implant .

Turning now to one embodiment of a loading system for loading an implant into the delivery catheter is generally illustrated. As discussed herein the implant may include a spacer having a diameter which when expanded is greater than the diameter of the delivery catheter lumen . The loading system may include a loading sheath as generally illustrated in configured to load the implant into the delivery catheter . The loading sheath may include a distal end a proximal end and a hollow shaft or lumen . The at least a portion of the implant spacer may be received into the hollow shaft lumen of the loading sheath as generally illustrated in . The internal dimensions of the lumen loading sheath may be configured to at least partially compress and or collapse the spacer thereby reducing the cross section of the implant .

Optionally the lumen of the loading sheath may be configured to receive the entire implant as illustrated. For example the anchor portion of the implant may be located proximate the distal end of the loading sheath . The proximal end of the loading sheath may also be configured receive a portion of a pusher for example the proximal end region of the pusher . As discussed herein the pusher may be configured to advance the implant through the delivery catheter to the implant site and may include a low density polyethylene tube or the like. The delivery wire may also be disposed within the loading sheath and through the lumen of the pusher .

Turning now to with the implant and pusher received in the lumen of the loading sheath the distal end of the loading sheath may be first advanced through the hemostasis valve of the delivery catheter and optionally into the control handle of the delivery catheter which is configured to control the position of the distal end of the delivery catheter as generally illustrated in . The loading sheath may be further advanced into the delivery catheter until the entire spacer is received in the delivery catheter . Optionally the loading sheath may be advanced until the proximal end region of the loading sheath is received in the delivery catheter . As such the distal end region of the pusher may also be loaded into the delivery catheter as well the implant .

With the implant received within the delivery catheter the loading sheath may be removed from the delivery catheter as well as the implant and the pusher . According to one embodiment the pusher may be held in place and the loading sheath may be pulled distally out of the hemostasis valve and away from the delivery catheter . The loading sheath may then be advanced over the remaining length of the exposed pusher . As may be appreciated however the pusher may relatively long and other objects of the percutaneous delivery system may prevent the loading sheath from simply sliding off.

To facilitate the removal of the loading sheath the loading sheath may optionally include a peel away sheath as generally illustrated in . According to this embodiment the loading sheath may include a longitudinal split perforation or the like and optionally one or more for example two tabs and or knobs and . Once the implant and or the pusher are received inside the lumen of the delivery catheter the loading sheath may be removed by holding the pusher substantially stationary and pulling on the two knobs attached to the tabs of the loading sheath causing the loading sheath to split in half along its longitudinal axis. With the loading sheath split it may be easily removed from the pusher . As a result the implant and the pusher may be loaded into the delivery catheter as generally illustrated in .

Turning now to one embodiment of a de airing system is generally illustrated. The de airing system is configured to allow the user e.g. physician to remove any air associated with the implant prior to inserting the implant into the delivery catheter . If entrapped air from the percutaneous delivery system is allowed to be introduced into the patient s cardiovascular system the air may be travel to the patient s brain or other parts of the patient s body where it may cause serious bodily harm and or death for example due to blood clotting or the like .

According to at least one embodiment herein the de airing system may include a fluid such as but not limited to a saline solution or the like which may be injected around the implant to flush away and or remove any entrapped air before the implant is inserted into the delivery catheter . The de airing system may include a first reservoir of fluid which may be configured to be fluidly coupled to the lumen of the sleeve for example about the proximal end of the sleeve . The sleeve may be disposed within a lumen of the pusher which may be substantially abutting against a distal end of the implant . The fluid may be injected into the lumen of the sleeve where it may flow through the sleeve and around delivery wire and the latching mechanism . A portion of the fluid may also flow pass the latching mechanism through the garage and stop tube around anchor wire into the can and through the threaded region and helical screw and out the distal end of the implant .

The sleeve may also include one or more openings slots apertures or the like configured allow some of the fluid to pass out of the sleeve and fill spacer . The fluid may then flow from the spacer into the lumen of the pusher back to a second reservoir fluidly coupled to the pusher . As may be appreciated the fluid flowing through the de airing system may remove any air entrapped around the implant . As a result the implant may be loaded into the delivery catheter without introducing any unwanted air into the patient s cardiovascular system.

Turning now to one embodiment of a de airing driver handle system is illustrated in an exploded or unassembled view. The de airing driver handle system may include a de airing system and or a driver handle. The de airing system may be configured to remove air from the implant prior to inserting the implant into the delivery catheter as discussed herein while the driver handle may be configured to manage the position of the sleeve and decoupling of the latching mechanism as well as to enable rotation of the helical screw into the native coronary tissue upon deployment of the implant .

The de airing driver handle system may include a pusher fitting configured to terminate the proximal end of the pusher . The pusher fitting may be configured to allow the sleeve to be disposed within the lumen of the pusher and to extend beyond the proximal end of the pusher . For example the pusher fitting may a compression fitting or the like. A fluid receiving reservoir may be fluidly coupled to the pusher fitting and may be configured to receive fluid flowing from the implant and the pusher lumen . According to at least one embodiment the fluid receiving reservoir may include a fitting including a needle less injector port or the like.

A sleeve fitting may also be coupled to the fluid receiving reservoir for terminating the proximal end of the sleeve . The sleeve fitting may be configured to allow the delivery wire to be disposed within the lumen of the sleeve and to extend beyond the proximal end of the sleeve . For example the sleeve fitting may include a compression fitting or the like. A fluid injection reservoir may be fluidly coupled to the sleeve fitting and may be configured to inject fluid into lumen of the sleeve where it ultimately flows around the implant and into the pusher as discussed herein. According to at least one embodiment the fluid injection reservoir may include a fitting configured to be fluidly coupled to a syringe or the like and the sleeve . The fitting may be configured to allow the delivery wire to sealingly pass through. Optionally a valve such as but not limited to a stopcock or the like may be provided to further regulate the flow of fluid form the fluid injection reservoir . A drive knob or the like may be coupled to the delivery wire to rotate the delivery wire and ultimately the helical screw of the anchor mechanism . The drive knob may include a set screw clamp or the like configured to allow the drive knob to be releasably coupled to the delivery wire .

It may be appreciated that one embodiment of the functional components of the de airing driver handle system have been illustrated and described. The various components may be combined and or split into one or more systems. For example the various fittings may be combined into a single driver handle device to facilitate their use.

Turning now to one embodiment illustrating the procedure for anchoring the implant into the native coronary tissue is generally illustrated. The implant may be advanced through the delivery catheter by applying a translational force to the pusher and against the implant . As the implant along with the entire pusher assembly de airing driver handle system is advanced forward through the delivery catheter the can of the implant may emerge from the distal end of the delivery catheter and may be urged biased against the native coronary tissue for example against the wall of the left ventricle proximate the apex as generally illustrated in . As can be seen the distal end region of the sleeve may be disposed substantially around the latching mechanism including the first and second latching pins . In addition the anchoring mechanism may be disposed in the retracted position in which the helical screw may be disposed within the can .

Turning now to the set screw on the driver knob may optionally be loosened and the drive knob may be moved back from the proximal end of the de airing handle system along the delivery wire and retightened to allow the helical screw to be advanced during the subsequent steps. For example the drive knob may be moved back approximately 1 cm.

With the can against the native coronary tissue and the driver knob moved back from the de airing handle system the driver knob may be rotated and urged forward to cause the delivery wire to be rotated as generally illustrated in . The torque may be transmitted through the latching mechanism causing the anchoring wire and ultimate the helical screw to rotate. Additionally a translational force may be applied to the pusher to urge the can of the implant against the native coronary tissue and generally prevent rotation of the can . The sleeve may be disposed about the first and second latching pins and along with the garage may be configured to provide lateral and rotational stability to the latching mechanism as described herein. Additionally one or more centering inserts may also provide additional lateral and rotational stability.

The first portion of the helical screw may rotate within the threaded region to advance the helical screw beyond the distal end of the can and into the native coronary tissue . The helical screw may be advanced beyond the distal end of the can until the second portion engages against or binds with the threaded region . As a result the maximum depth that the helical screw may be advanced into the native coronary tissue may be controlled and puncturing of the heart wall may be avoided.

Turning now to the set screw on the driver knob may optionally be loosened and the drive knob may be moved back from the proximal end of the de airing handle system along the delivery wire and retightened to allow the latching mechanism to be decoupled. For example the drive knob may be moved back approximately 2 inches.

To decouple the latching mechanism the sleeve fitting of the de airing handle system may be disconnected and the sleeve may be retracted i.e. moved proximally away from the implant as generally illustrated in . As the sleeve is retracted one or more of the latching pins may be exposed from the distal end region of the sleeve . The latching pins may still be loosely coupled at this point.

Turning now to the delivery wire may also be retracted. Retracting the delivery wire may fully disengage decouple the first and second latching pins . The disengagement of the latching mechanism may be seen on fluoroscopy or the like and may also be felt by the physician the delivery wire will feel loose when disengaged decoupled . The sleeve and the delivery wire may be retracted out of the implant not shown . The pusher may be held against the implant and the delivery catheter may be retracted to further deploy the implant .

As mentioned above the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to a system or method which must satisfy one or more of any stated or implied object or feature of the present disclosure and should not be limited to the preferred exemplary or primary embodiment s described herein. The foregoing description of a preferred embodiment of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the precise form disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principles of the present disclosure and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the present disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as is suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the present disclosure as determined by the claims when interpreted in accordance with breadth to which they are fairly legally and equitably entitled.

