---

title: Apparatus and method pertaining to conveying information via an RFID transceiver
abstract: An RFID transceiver and RFID-tag reader cooperate to convey information from one to the other and further accommodate the RFID-tag reader transmitting information to the RFID transceiver that causes a modification of information presented via the RFID transceiver. By one approach an RFID-tag reader detects a circumstance that evidences a particular status as pertains to a particular item of such information in a given RFID transceivers. An RFID-tag reader can then serve to modify the information at the corresponding RFID transceiver. By one approach, the aforementioned information comprises a to-do list. The aforementioned modification can comprise modifying at least one to-do item in that to-do list. The aforementioned detection of a circumstance can comprise detecting a physical location of the given RFID transceiver. That location information can be compared to locations that correspond to specific to-do items in the list to identify correlations that evidence completion of specific to-do items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09230145&OS=09230145&RS=09230145
owner: Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
number: 09230145
owner_city: Bentonville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130425
---
This application is related to co pending and co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 804 393 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS PERTAINING TO RFID TAG BASED USER ASSERTIONS and filed Mar. 14 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

RFID tags are known in the art. These so called tags often assume the form factor of a label or a literal tag but are also sometimes integrated with a host article and or its packaging. RFID tags typically comprise an integrated circuit and one or more antennas. The integrated circuit typically carries out a variety of functions including modulating and demodulating radio frequency signals data storage and data processing. Some integrated circuits are active or self powered in whole or in part while others are passive being completely dependent upon an external power source such as an RFID tag reader to support their occasional functionality.

There are proposals to utilize RFID tags to individually identify individual items. The Electronic Product Code EPC as managed by EPCGlobal Inc. represents one such effort in these regards. EPC based RFID tags each have a unique serial number to thereby uniquely identify each tag and by association each item correlated on a one for one basis with such tags. The corresponding document entitled EPC Radio Frequency Identity Protocols Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz Version 1.0.9 is hereby fully incorporated herein by this reference. 

In addition to reading part or all of the informational contents of an RFID tag an RFID tag reader can also serve to convey information to an RFID tag.

Elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions and or relative positioning of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. Also common but well understood elements that are useful or necessary in a commercially feasible embodiment are often not depicted in order to facilitate a less obstructed view of these various embodiments of the present invention. Certain actions and or steps may be described or depicted in a particular order of occurrence while those skilled in the art will understand that such specificity with respect to sequence is not actually required. The terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary technical meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions by persons skilled in the technical field as set forth above except where different specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein.

Generally speaking pursuant to these various embodiments an RFID transceiver and RFID tag reader cooperate to convey information from one to the other. In particular these teachings accommodate the RFID tag reader transmitting information to the RFID transceiver that causes a modification of information presented via the RFID transceiver. By one approach an RFID tag reader detects a circumstance that evidences a particular status as pertains to a particular item of such information in a given RFID transceiver. In such a case these teachings will accommodate using such an RFID tag reader to modify the information at the corresponding RFID transceiver.

By one approach and by way of a non limiting example the aforementioned information comprises a to do list. In this case the aforementioned modification can comprise modifying at least one to do item in that to do list. By one approach the aforementioned detection of a circumstance that evidences a particular status as pertains to a particular item of information comprises at least in part detecting a physical location of the given RFID transceiver. By way of further example that physical location information can be compared to physical locations that correspond to specific to do items in the to do list to identify correlations of interest that evidence for example attention to and or completion of specific to do items.

So configured and by way of example associates for a given enterprise can be provided with extremely inexpensive devices that compatibly interact with the enterprise s RFID tag reader infrastructure to receive and display for example individualized task assignments. More particularly the device and the RFID tag reader infrastructure can cooperate with one another in a manner that permits dynamic and automatic management of those task assignments. For example completed to do items can in many cases be automatically marked as being completed or can otherwise automatically be removed from the displayed list of to do items.

By one approach these teachings facilitate this dynamic management of task assignments without a need for direct user input to the device itself. Accordingly the cost and complexity of the device can be reduced further by avoiding a need for buttons switches touch sensitive displays voice recognition or the like. These teachings are also highly scalable and will accommodate a wide variety of application settings information types and volume and end user device configurations.

These and other benefits may become clearer upon making a thorough review and study of the following detailed description. Referring now to the drawings and in particular to a first apparatus configured in accordance with these teachings includes a control circuit that operably couples to an RFID transceiver and a display . Such an apparatus can be sized and have a form factor appropriate to permit the apparatus to be easily carried and or worn by an average person of either gender for example in a pocket or in a holster on a lanyard that is disposed around the user s neck as a wristwatch styled device and so forth . If desired such an apparatus can have other components such as a portable power supply one or more user input interfaces and so forth . For the sake of clarity and a simple example however such additional components are not shown here.

The RFID transceiver is configured to receive information from an RFID reader and to transmit at least a unique identifier such as a unique EPC value to the RFID reader. The present teachings will accommodate a wide range of practices in these regards. For many application settings however it will suffice if the RFID transceiver comprises an EPC GEN2 compliant RFID tag transceiver of which many are well known and understood in the art.

The display can comprise for example any of a variety of flat screen display technologies and or flexible screen display technologies as desired. By one approach the display comprises an electronic paper display such as but not limited to an electrophoretic ink display as is known in the art .

The control circuit can comprise a fixed purpose hard wired platform or can comprise a partially or wholly programmable platform. These architectural options are well known and understood in the art and require no further description here. This control circuit is configured for example by using corresponding programming as will be well understood by those skilled in the art to carry out one or more of the steps actions and or functions described herein. In particular the control circuit is configured to present via the display at least some of the information from the RFID reader as received via the RFID transceiver . The control circuit is also configured to modify at least some of the presented information in response to other items of information from the RFID reader.

As will be described below in more detail the aforementioned information from the RFID reader can comprise at least in part a to do list and hence the control circuit can serve in part to display at least a part of that to do list on the display . In such a case the aforementioned modifications can comprise modifying the to do list as a function at least in part of other information from the RFID reader.

This system control circuit is configured to carry out various activities in support of the present teachings By one approach for example this control circuit is configured via for example appropriate programming to carry out the process shown in .

At the control circuit uses at least one of the RFID tag readers to send information to at least one apparatus as described above. For the sake of a simple illustrative example the remainder of this description shall presume to refer to the receiving apparatus as an RFID tag. Transmitting information such as text from an RFID tag reader to an RFID tag comprises a well understood area of endeavor. Accordingly for the sake of brevity further details in these regards are not provided here.

By one approach this information comprises at least in part a to do list i.e. a list of errands chores or tasks that are assigned or otherwise undertaken to be accomplished typically within some corresponding specified or understood time frame . As noted above the receiving apparatus is configured to present such received information on its display . presents an illustrative example of such a to do list as shown on such a display . In this example each to do item comprises a brief textual task description along with an empty checkbox to denote the corresponding to do item as being not yet accomplished.

So configured the to do items can be uniquely targeted to specific receiving RFID tags by using and leveraging for example the unique EPC value assigned to each such RFID tag in this example and hence to specific individuals who are assigned temporarily or permanently to such tags. In this way if desired each associate at a given facility such as a retail store can be provided with a personal to them to do list of tasks that are specific to their shift location rank status training or the like.

By one optional approach at the control circuit compares the physical location of the given RFID tag to physical locations as correspond to individual information items as comprise the information. This can comprise for example comparing the physical location of a given RFID tag to physical locations as correspond to individual to do items on the aforementioned to do list. There are various known ways by which the physical location of a given RFID tag can be ascertained using for example radio frequency based triangulation accordingly further details in those regards are not provided here.

The control circuit then identifies correlations between the RFID tag s physical location and the physical locations that correspond to the given individual information items. For example as shown in the to do item RESTOCK MUSTARD can have a corresponding physical location within a retail facility i.e. a particular aisle and a particular part of that aisle where mustard is ordinarily stocked and displayed. In such a case this step can comprise identifying when the RFID tag s physical location is the same as the physical location for where mustard is ordinarily stocked and displayed.

At the control circuit seeks to detect one or more circumstances of interest. For example the control circuit can detect when a circumstance that evidences a particular status as pertains to a particular item in the information arises and if desires persists for at least some predetermined period of time . By one approach this can comprise detecting that the RFID tag is at the location where mustard is stocked and displayed. These teachings will also support the detection of a series of circumstances that together evidence the status of interest. For example this process will permit first detecting that the RFID tag is physically proximal to an area in a back store room where mustard is stored and then detecting that the RFID tag is next moved to the aisle and area where mustard if displayed and or that the RFID tag has remained in the aforementioned area for at least a predetermined amount of time that corresponds to a restocking behavior. These events and observations in sequence can together constitute evidence that the status of the to do item RESTOCK MUSTARD is COMPLETED. 

Upon detecting such a circumstance at the control circuit then uses at least one of the plurality of RFID tag readers to modify the information in the given RFID tag. When the foregoing information comprises a to do list as described above this modification can comprise by one approach modifying at least one to do item in the to do list. As exemplified in by one approach such a modification can comprise if desired modifying the corresponding to do item s to indicate completion of the to do item. As illustrated this can comprise placing a marker in the checkbox for the RESTOCK MUSTARD to do item. As another example not illustrated an overstrike line could be placed over part or all of the text portion of the to do item.

These teachings will accommodate a variety of approaches in these regards. For example background shading could serve in these same regards. It would also be possible to change the specifics of the displayed font to indicate completion of the to do item by for example changing the color or grayscale value of the font changing the font from a bold font to an ordinary font by italicizing the font and so forth .

In lieu of the foregoing and as illustrated in these teachings will also accommodate modifying the completed to do item by simply removing the to do item from the presented to do list . By yet another approach the to do item can first be modified as described above to indicate completion and then after some predetermined period of time such as ten seconds one minute five minutes or some other duration of interest the to do item is then removed from the presented to do list .

So configured the user apparatus can maintain a to do list without requiring any specific actions from the user other than attending to the to do items themselves. By one approach then the user apparatus can be completely without any user input interfaces and might simply comprise from the standpoint of a user interface a display that presents the aforementioned to do list both in an original form and as automatically updated from time to time as described herein. Such a device offers a very economical approach to providing associates with a dynamic active to do list to help ensure that associates understand their current responsibilities and to help prompt their attention to those responsibilities.

These teachings are also highly flexible in practice and will accommodate a variety of variations modifications and combinations. As one example in these regards at the control circuit can optionally identify an additional to do item to add to the to do list for a specific apparatus . By one example if desired such an additional to do item can be identified as a function at least in part of one of the other to do items that comprises the to do list for a particular apparatus . As a simple illustrative example in these regards a spill may occur in some portion of a retail facility and a review of present to do items indicates that a particular associate s to do list has them working on a task in an area that is relatively near where the spill occurred.

At then the control circuit can again use one or more of the RFID tag readers to send the additional to do item to one or more corresponding RFID tags to thereby supplement the already supplied to do lists on those apparatuses . As shown in and by way of an illustrative example a new to do item CLEAN UP SPILL IN AISLE as denoted by reference numeral has been received by the apparatus and is now automatically presented on the display as part of the to do list .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of other modifications alterations and combinations can also be made with respect to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention and that such modifications alterations and combinations are to be viewed as being within the ambit of the inventive concept. As a specific illustrative example in these regards the apparatus can be configured to sound an audible alert upon receiving a to do list upon receiving a modification to an existing to do item and or upon receiving a supplemental to do item. As another illustrative example these teachings will readily accommodate having the control circuit transmit information to the apparatus to thereby cause the latter to present a to do list having one or more redacted to do items even if the corresponding associate did not themselves attend to the redacted to do items.

