---

title: Social media lottery game with player profile wagering selections
abstract: The present invention combines aspects of social media with traditional lottery games. In one aspect, the present invention provides lottery game for drawing-based and instant-based games, where the numbers or icons that are traditionally used are replaced by player profiles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443396&OS=09443396&RS=09443396
owner: IGT GLOBAL SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
number: 09443396
owner_city: Providence
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present invention relates to lottery games and more particularly to lottery games that can involve social media.

Lottery ticket games are known and are provided in different formats including instant win type games and online or drawing based games. With an instant ticket game a player typically scratches one or more places on a ticket to determine if he or she is a winner. With drawing based games a player typically selects several numbers from a pool of numbers and a lottery drawing of numbers such as from a bin of ping pong balls for example is conducted later to determine whether there are any winners. Lottery tickets can be physical tickets purchased at retailers or virtual tickets purchased and played online.

Social media is a separate and more recent phenomenon whereby individuals can interact in a variety of ways online through social media related web systems such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter MySpace and other sites. Various functions are available at these sites with a typical theme being the sharing of various types of information with a group or network of known friends and contacts.

The present invention combines aspects of social media with traditional lottery games. In one aspect the present invention provides a system and method for new lottery games where the numbers or icons that are traditionally used are replaced by player profiles.

As shown in for example a matrix grid or other arrangement of player profiles is provided on a lottery ticket according to embodiments of the present invention whereby individual profile elements can be used as wagering selections similar to how a number might be selected for a lottery drawing or casino style game. The player profile elements can be a photograph inputted by a player an avatar or other creation inputted by a player to the system for example. Whether the player uses an avatar a photographic image or other creation the selected item can be referred to as a profile icon for purposes of the present disclosure. In one embodiment of the present invention each player must opt in in order for his or her player icon to be selected for the wagering matrix. Thus there can be an initial pool of registered game players such as indicated at in and a subset pool of opted in players as shown in . In one embodiment of the present invention a player must be registered to play and only registered players can become eligible to opt in. Further as part of the opt in process players can decide what to use as their player profile icon and can select and store a copy of one or more icons associated with the player and taken from a social media web site to which the user is a member for example. Such information can be stored as part of the player s profile. Players have the ability to pull in any of a number of pre determined profile icons from other social media sites which could include an actual photograph or avatar or the player can create a new profile icon including an actual photographic image or avatar for example.

Once the player registers opts in and creates his her player profile icon the system can then randomly select player icons from the pool of opted in players to be used in a specific game. In one embodiment of the present invention a player can maintain multiple icons in his or her profile and the system of the present invention can randomly select or the player can specifically designate which player icon is to be used in the pool available for selection into the game matrix or arrangement for a given game. It will be appreciated that a player icon grid made available for selection by the user for a particular game need not take a specific shape e.g. rectangular square etc. but can simply refer to any two dimensional arrangement such that each grid has an individual grid location corresponding to an individual player icon as illustrated in for example. As further shown in the example illustrated in the system randomly selects a number of Lucky Friends as at who will be shown on the ticket for the game. The system can also randomly select a number of Power Pals who will be shown on the ticket for the game. In one embodiment of one game according to the present invention the player selects five player profiles from the Lucky Friends pool as shown at and one player profile from the Power Pals pool as shown at . This corresponds to a Pick5 type game plus a Power Ball extra pick similar to some lottery drawing games. It will be appreciated that the game matrix can be based on any traditional numbers game including daily numbers games bi weekly games or Powerball Mega Millions style games.

The present invention can operate such that different profiles are selected for each game. Further the present invention can operate to allow players to access and coordinate profile information using their profiles from other social media websites. In one embodiment of the present invention in addition to potentially winning by playing the game players can win by being selected by the system for the game pool. In a specific embodiment of the present invention all players associated with player icons that are randomly selected for the pool of selectable icons receive a prize. Such an embodiment encourages participation by the eligible registered players. Players can also earn and accumulate loyalty points or prizes for being selected for the pool being selected by other players during play of the game referring others to the game and or having the referred player s win a game.

In conducting this embodiment of a game the system of the present invention establishes the grid with multiple individual grid locations and randomly selects multiple profile icons from the pool of available icon entries sufficient to populate the grid . As discussed above it will be appreciated that at least one of the received selectable profile icon pool entries can be taken from a social networking data repository. In one embodiment of the present invention the player can provide the system with an indication of a specifically desired profile icon to be highlighted for potential inclusion in the selected profile icons for the player in the event the desired profile icon is one of the selectable profile icons in the established grid. For example if a player is friends with Jane Doe and wishes to consider using Jane Doe s player icon the player can inform the system of the present invention which upon randomly selecting the grid of icons for play can determine if Jane Doe s icon has been selected and can thereafter highlight or otherwise bring the player s attention to Jane Doe s icon in the field of selectable icons. In this way the player s favorite icons can be designated and save the player time in trying to find the favorite icon s once the grid has been revealed.

It will thus be appreciated that the game according to one embodiment of the present invention can be operated by establishing a pool of available profile icons e.g. icons corresponding to opted in players randomly selecting a first subset of the pool for displaying on a user interface as player selectable profile icons e.g. the grid of profile icons and executing a first game by comparing a player selected subset of the first subset with a randomly selected game subset of the first subset of profile icons. The game can further operate in future games to randomly select further subsets of the previously established pool for displaying on a user interface as player selectable profile icons and executing further games by comparing a player selected subset of the further subsets with a randomly selected game subset of the subsequent subsets of profile icons. In this way it will be appreciated that the game of the present invention does not include the same profile icons available for selection from game to game which is in contrast to a traditional drawing based game whereby for example a set number of numbers e.g. 1 to 59 are available for selection. Further the first subset selected by the present invention for display to the user can be replaced into the pool prior to selecting additional subsets of the pool for future games. Thus if a player icon is selected for one game it is not removed from being available for selection in future games according to one embodiment of the present invention. Additionally if a player has indicated a favorite icon or icons to be included the present invention can accommodate this by pre populating a player s selections to include whichever favorite or desired icon s have been made available for selection in a given game.

The present invention also facilitates social aspects by permitting chat and group wagering. For example in one embodiment players are able to set up group wagers to increase their chances of winning An organizer of a group play can set the parameters of a group wager and invite other registered users to opt in on the wager. Players can decide how many players can be a part of the group wager and for how much money each player needs to pay. If a group bet wins the players can decide how to split the money between all of the members as well as if any proceeds of the winnings will go to a charity for example.

In one embodiment the present invention can be implemented with a front end user interface link to social media sites such that the user can log in using social media site credentials in order to play. In another embodiment of the present invention a back end application programming interface API to social media sites is provided. In operation the present invention can be provided so as to operate only for registered game lottery players following necessary jurisdictional requirements. A registered game player will have previously created an account containing for example identity information contact information such as an e mail address and credentials such as a password in order to be able to log in and conduct future activities as a registered player. Optionally the registered player can also enter other player profile details within his or her account including playing preference information notification preference information one or more player icons such as a photographic image or avatar for example and personal interest information such as hobbies sports music food animals and similar interests for example. In one embodiment of the present invention notification information can include a request to notify the player s preferred social media site that one of his or her friends or designated player icons has been involved in some type of event within game play such as for example being selected as part of the grid of selectable icons being selected by the random selection of winning icons etc. A registered player can access and play a game according to the present invention by for example logging in to a dedicated website for game play using log in credentials specifically established for the game of the present invention. As an alternative example the player can login to a dedicated website for game play in accordance with the present invention using his or her preferred social media network profile and the present invention can recognize the player as a registered player through his or her unique e mail address and or personal or profile information.

The game of the present invention can operate with traditional print tickets tickets purchased and or played over the Internet and tickets purchased as part of a subscription. The game can further operate as part of an electronic instant ticket a video lottery terminal game a play for fun game with no monetary value a game that awards credits or prizes instead of money a mobile application game a Bingo game a slot game a Keno game a poker game a game that is revealed on a monitor and other games.

In the exemplary embodiment shown in the present invention can comprise a computer based system where the components can be implemented in hardware software firmware or combinations thereof. illustrates an exemplary high level network with exemplary users and or external computer systems that can interact with the system of the present invention. The users can access the system of the present invention using client computing devices such as desktop computers laptop computers mobile communications devices MCDs smart television appliances or one or more public game terminals or kiosks in appropriate commercial sites subject to any jurisdictional limitations for example. It will be appreciated that the system of the present invention can incorporate necessary processing power and memory for storing data and programming that can be employed by the processor to carry out the functions and communications necessary to facilitate the processes and functionalities described herein.

Players can enter commands and information into the computer through a user interface including traditional input mechanisms such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices can include for example a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner voice recognition device keyboard touch screen toggle switch pushbutton or the like. One or more monitors or display devices can be provided with the player s computing device or game terminal as will be understood in the art. In addition to display devices the computing devices can also include other peripheral output devices which may be connected through an output peripheral interface. The computers implementing the invention may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers the remote computers typically including many or all of the elements described above.

As further shown in the system can include a presentation or user interface component a player membership component a player wallet component a game management component a player management component and an administrative component and further can be coupled to one or more databases and or other data sources. These software components can be programmed or configured to communicate with one another or with the data storage modules. The system can run these software modules to facilitate the lottery type games in accordance with embodiments of the present invention as described. The database holds records related to players and games including winning combinations player selections player opt in permissions and other information. In one embodiment of the present invention the system of the present invention is in communication with external service providers and web sites such as banking service providers who may provide credit or payment transaction services for players and social media sites that may provide access to player profile information and or player personal network information.

Each of the client computing devices can communicate with the system via a user interface presentation component . The presentation component provides computer and or Internet access for players and game operators administrators to communicate with the other components. The player membership component performs functions related to registering new players such as verifying player information assigning player IDs and creating player records. The wallet component manages player accounts and handling debit and credit transactions against the player accounts including wagering and winner payouts. The game management component performs functions such as scheduling and conducting lottery drawings selecting player profiles for production in connection with a given game generating and publishing game results and calculating payout amounts. The player management component contains and manages data records related to each player including for example player identification data registration information wager preferences account history social network information and opt in information. The administrative component facilitates administrative and customer service tasks to be performed by a system operator for example. The administrative component can further provide API s such as a back end application programming interface to social media sites for example.

Unless otherwise stated devices or components of the present invention that are in communication with each other do not need to be in continuous communication with each other. Further devices or components in communication with other devices or components can communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediate devices components or other intermediaries. Further descriptions of embodiments of the present invention herein wherein several devices and or components are described as being in communication with one another does not imply that all such components are required or that each of the disclosed components must communicate with every other component. In addition while algorithms process steps and or method steps may be described in a sequential order such approaches can be configured to work in different orders. In other words any ordering of steps described herein does not standing alone dictate that the steps be performed in that order. The steps associated with methods and or processes as described herein can be performed in any order practical. Additionally some steps can be performed simultaneously or substantially simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously.

It will be appreciated that algorithms method steps and process steps described herein can be implemented by appropriately programmed general purpose computers and computing devices for example. In this regard a processor e.g. a microprocessor or controller device receives instructions from a memory or like storage device that contains and or stores the instructions and the processor executes those instructions thereby performing a process defined by those instructions. Further programs that implement such methods and algorithms can be stored and transmitted using a variety of known media. At a minimum the memory includes at least one set of instructions that is either permanently or temporarily stored. The processor executes the instructions that are stored in order to process data. The set of instructions can include various instructions that perform a particular task or tasks. Such a set of instructions for performing a particular task can be characterized as a program software program software engine module component mechanism or tool. Common forms of computer readable media that may be used in the performance of the present invention include but are not limited to floppy disks flexible disks hard disks magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROMs DVDs any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable medium when used in the present disclosure can refer to any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium can exist in many forms including for example non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media can include dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media may include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires or other pathways that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying sequences of instructions associated with the present invention to a processor. For example sequences of instruction can be delivered from RAM to a processor carried over a wireless transmission medium and or formatted according to numerous formats standards or protocols such as

Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Wi Fi Bluetooth GSM CDMA satellite EDGE and EVDO for example. Where databases are described in the present disclosure it will be appreciated that alternative database structures to those described as well as other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. The drawing figure representations and accompanying descriptions of any exemplary databases presented herein are illustrative and not restrictive arrangements for stored representations of data. Further any exemplary entries of tables and parameter data represent example information only and despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models and or distributed databases can be used to store process and otherwise manipulate the data types described herein. Electronic storage can be local or remote storage as will be understood to those skilled in the art. Appropriate encryption and other security methodologies can also be employed by the system of the present invention as will be understood to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The present disclosure describes numerous embodiments of the present invention and these embodiments are presented for illustrative purposes only. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it will be appreciated that other embodiments may be employed and that structural logical software electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. Accordingly those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention may be practiced with various modifications and alterations. Although particular features of the present invention can be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments or figures that form a part of the present disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments of the invention it will be appreciated that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or figures with reference to which they are described. The present disclosure is thus neither a literal description of all embodiments of the invention nor a listing of features of the invention that must be present in all embodiments.

