---

title: Mitigation of radio frequency interference (RFI) in global positioning system (GPS) signals
abstract: A technology is provided for reducing pulsed radio frequency interference. The GPS signal may be received at a GPS device. The GPS device may include a GPS receiver. The GPS signal may include a plurality of sign and magnitude bits. Pulsed RFI may be detected in the GPS signal based on samples of the magnitude bits in the GPS signal. The pulsed RFI received at the GPS receiver may be reduced by communicating a blank signal when the samples of the magnitude bits indicate the pulsed RFI.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09632183&OS=09632183&RS=09632183
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 09632183
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131122
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8682 10 C 0007 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The government has certain rights in the invention.

number of Global Positioning System GPS devices has grown rapidly in recent years among military civil and commercial users around the world. In general GPS is a space based satellite navigation system that provides location and time information. GPS may function anywhere on or near the Earth where there is an unobstructed line of sight to four or more GPS satellites. Thus GPS may not be accessible inside buildings subterranean locations or underwater. GPS has a variety of applications on land at sea and in the air. For example GPS may facilitate activities such as banking mobile phone operations navigation of commercial aircraft and boats scientific studies tracking and surveillance.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Global Positioning System GPS receivers may be used to provide location information in a wide range of situations. For example GPS receivers may be used with automobiles airplanes missiles mobile devices etc. The GPS receiver may receive GPS signals from a plurality of satellites to determine the location of the GPS receiver. For example a missile may use the GPS signals when calculating a navigational path or to follow a pre determined navigational path. In some instances the GPS signal received by the GPS receiver may include pulsed radio frequency interference RFI . In general a pulsed signal may experience a rapid change in amplitude from a baseline value to a higher or lower value and then rapidly return to the baseline value. A pulsed signal may have a rectangular pulse a cosine squared pulse a Dirac pulse a sinc pulse a Gaussian pulse etc.

The pulsed RFI may mask the GPS signal and as a result the GPS receiver may be unable to determine its location based on the GPS signal. In other words the pulsed RFI may have greater amplitude compared to a typical GPS signal such that the pulsed RFI may mask the GPS signal. Therefore a pulsed RFI mitigation technique may be used to identify the pulsed RFI in the GPS signal and then remove the pulsed RFI from the GPS signal. The GPS signal substantially without the pulsed RFI may be communicated to the GPS receiver. As a result the GPS device may successfully track the GPS signal to perform navigational functions.

The pulsed RFI may adversely impact the GPS receiver by degrading the carrier to signal noise C No wherein the C No is expressed in decibels or dB . When the pulsed RFI is reduced in both the L and L bands the C No ratio may increase. As an example the pulsed RFI may reduce the C No ratio by approximately 3.8 dB using the pulsed RFI mitigation technique whereas the C No ratio may be reduced by approximately 24 dB when the pulsed RFI mitigation technique is not used. In the absence of pulsed RFI the C No ratio of the GPS receiver may be unchanged because substantially 100 of the GPS signal may be provided to the GPS receiver .

In one example the pulsed RFI mitigation technique may be implemented in the existing firmware of the GPS receiver . For example the pulsed RFI mitigation technique may be implemented in a field programmable gate array FPGA device included in the GPS device. The Very High Speed Integrated Circuits Hardware Description Language VHDL associated with the FPGA device may be modified to reduce the pulsed RFI in the GPS signal. The pulsed RFI mitigation technique may support uniform operation over temperatures and gain variations in the antenna and GPS receiver . The pulsed RFI mitigation technique may be independent of frequency duty cycle pulse rate and RFI signal magnitude. In addition the pulsed RFI mitigation technique may be asynchronous such that non periodic RFI pulses and periodic RFI pulses may be mitigated. Furthermore the pulsed RFI mitigation technique may not limit the RFI pulses to having a 50 duty cycle.

In one example the magnitude bits included in the GPS signal samples may indicate input signal levels into the GPS receiver. For example the magnitude bits may indicate a 1 state or a hit when its signal level or signal power exceeds an expected mean signal level or mean signal power by a specified deviation. In contrast the magnitude bits may indicate a 0 state or a non hit when the signal level corresponds to the mean signal level. As will be discussed below the magnitude bits may be used to distinguish pulsed RFI data from non pulsed RFI data in the GPS signal .

A running sum of the magnitude bits that indicate a hit may be determined in the FIFO delay buffer . The pulsed RFI may be detected in the GPS signal depending on the number of hits that are detected in the FIFO delay buffer . In particular if the running sum of the magnitude bits reveals a pre defined number of consecutive hits then the GPS signal may be presumed to have pulsed RFI. In one example if the running sum of the magnitude bits indicates 100 or more hits in a row then the GPS signal may be presumed to have pulsed RFI. In other words at least 100 consecutive hits out of 128 samples may indicate the presence of pulsed RFI in the GPS signal .

When pulsed RFI is detected in the GPS signal a blank sample may be provided to the GPS receiver instead of the GPS signal having the pulsed RFI. In one example the blank sample may be provided to the GPS receiver in response to the 100 consecutive samples indicating a magnitude hit. If the running sum indicates less than 100 consecutive magnitude hits or zero magnitude hits then the blank sample is not provided to the GPS receiver. In another example if 100 non consecutive hits are determined out of the 128 samples then the blank sample is not provided to the GPS receiver.

In one example when 100 or more hits occur in a row the output of the FIFO delay buffer i.e. the sign and magnitude bits of the GPS signal may be multiplexed with a blanked output i.e. zero data . The output of the FIFO delay buffer multiplexed with the blanked output may produce the blank signal. The blank signal may be input to the GPS receiver. In other words the GPS receiver may receive zero data when the running sum indicates that the GPS signal contains pulsed RFI. When less than 100 hits occur in a row the output of the FIFO delay buffer may be input to the GPS receiver.

As discussed in further detail below the blank signal may be fed to the GPS receiver for a predefined period of time. For example the blank signal may be fed to the GPS receiver for an additional 160 samples. As a result of the GPS receiver receiving the blank signal the pulsed RFI in the GPS signal may not inhibit the functionality of the GPS receiver. After a pre defined period of time the GPS receiver may stop receiving the blank signal and receive GPS signals without pulsed RFI. Therefore the GPS receiver may receive GPS signals not having pulsed RFI with intervals of blank signals. The intervals of blank signals may indicate portions of the GPS signals where pulsed RFI was removed.

In one example the output of the FIFO delay buffer may be communicated to a Selective Availability Anti Spoofing Module SAASM . The SAASM may be a GPS receiver used by the military to allow decryption of GPS signals. Since GPS relies on low powered frequency waves traveling from satellites to GPS receivers on the ground GPS may be vulnerable to intentional jamming by enemies in a military scenario. Thus the SAASM may decrease the likelihood of the GPS receiver receiving a spoofed signal i.e. an intentionally modified GPS signal that causes the GPS receiver to determine an incorrect location . In addition the blank signal may be communicated to the SAASM during periods when pulsed RFI is detected in the GPS signal . The SAASM may decrypt the GPS signal and use the decrypted GPS signal for determining a geographical location of the GPS device.

Alternatively the output of the FIFO delay buffer i.e. the sign and magnitude bits of the GPS signal may be communicated to a positioning module. The positioning module may receive the blank signal and a GPS signal without pulsed RFI. The positioning module may receive the blank signal for the predefined time period or for up to 100 microseconds upon detection of the pulsed RFI in the GPS signal. The positioning module may determine a geographical location of the GPS device using the GPS signal without pulsed RFI. In other words the location may be determined without the SAASM first decrypting the GPS signal without pulsed RFI.

When the blank signal is communicated to the GPS receiver a fixed magnitude hit ratio data stream may be input to an automatic gain control AGC VHDL such that the blanked signal may have a minimized effect on the AGC. In general AGC may be an adaptive system found in GPS devices. The average output signal level may be fed back to adjust the gain to an appropriate level for a range of input signal levels. In GPS devices the AGC acts as a variable gain amplifier adjusting the power of the incoming GPS signal to minimize quantization losses. In one example a fixed 16 magnitude hit ratio may be input to the AGC. In addition since the pulsed RFI may be determined based on 100 consecutive samples having a magnitude hit the AGC may be similarly controlled when the GPS receiver receives continuous wave CW jamming signals or broadband jamming signals.

In one example the running sum determines a predefined number of non hits i.e. samples that do not indicate a 1 and then a zero signal may be fed into the AGC to automatically increase the gain. For example a zero signal may be fed into the AGC when the running sum determines 1280 consecutive non hit samples. In other words a second running sum may be kept for 1280 samples to reset the AGC if pulsed RFI is not detected in the GPS signal samples. In addition the pulsed RFI signal may be detected and reduced in the L frequency independent of the L frequency. Therefore the pulsed RFI technique for reducing pulsed RFI from the GPS signal may be performed independently for both the L and L frequencies.

In one example the GPS signal may include continuous RFI and then revert to a pulsed RFI. Since the AGC may have attenuated the intermediate frequency IF signal the magnitude bit associated with the pulsed RFI may appear as a normal signal i.e. a GPS signal without RFI during the ON portion of the pulse. During the OFF portion of the pulse the magnitude bit may appear as a string of zeros. As a result the blank signal may not be multiplexed with the GPS signal because the GPS signal may be attenuated by the IF AGC. Thus a string of zeros may be communicated to the AGC state machine for a predetermined time period e.g. 10 milliseconds . After the 10 ms the AGC may return to maximum IF gain and the running sum may continue to detect for pulsed RFI based on GPS signal samples temporarily stored in the FIFO delay buffer .

At State RFI may be determined in the GPS signal. The state machine may be in State i.e. a default state until RFI is detected in the GPS signal. As previously discussed RFI may be detected in the GPS signal when 100 consecutive magnitude bits out of 128 samples indicate the presence of RFI. The magnitude bits may indicate input signal levels into the GPS receiver. For example the magnitude bits may indicate a 1 state or a hit when its signal level or signal power exceeds an expected mean signal level or mean signal power by a specified deviation. When 100 consecutive magnitude hits are detected in the GPS signal in State then the state machine may transition to State i.e. sending blank signals . In State if 1280 zeros i.e. magnitude bits that are non hits are detected in a row then the AGC threshold may be lowered i.e. State .

At State A a blank signal may be communicated to the GPS receiver. In other words the GPS signal may be multiplexed with a blanked output to produce a blank signal. As previously discussed the blank signal may be communicated to the GPS signal when 100 consecutive magnitude hits are detected in the GPS signal in State . The blank signal may be communicated to the GPS receiver based on a timer. The timer may limit the period for which the blank signal is communicated to the GPS receiver. In one example the timer may limit the blanking to a maximum of 100 microseconds. In other words after pulsed RFI is detected the blank signal may be communicated to the GPS receiver for up to 100 microseconds.

If the pulsed RFI stops within the 100 microseconds i.e. the running sum does not detect 100 consecutive magnitude hits out of 128 total samples within the 100 microsecond period then the state machine may transition to State B which continues blanking the signal for another 160 samples to clear the FIFO delay buffer of the hit samples.

If the pulsed RFI is longer than 100 microseconds i.e. the running sum continues to detect 100 consecutive magnitude hits out of 128 total samples after the 100 microsecond period then the RFI may be determined to be non pulsed RFI. For example the RFI may be caused by continuous wave CW jamming signals or broadband interference. Thus if the timer expires i.e. the pulsed RFI is longer than 100 microseconds then the state machine may transition to State and wait for the AGC to update so that the magnitude samples are not a hit. 

At State B if the pulsed RFI stops within the timer period e.g. 100 microseconds the blank signal may continue to be communicated to the GPS receiver for an additional period of time. For example the blank signal may be communicated to the GPS receiver for an additional 160 samples. By communicating the blank signal for the additional 160 samples the edges of the pulsed RFI may be removed. In an alternative configuration the blank signal may be communicated for a duration greater than or less than 160 samples. The state machine may transition to State after the blank signal has been communicated for 160 samples.

Alternatively if a new RFI pulse is detected in State B i.e. during the communication of the blank signal for the 160 samples then the state machine may transition to State . If the new RFI pulse is detected then the state machine may transition to State A one clock cycle later. In other words the state machine may remain in State for one clock cycle. The new RFI pulse may be detected when at least 100 consecutive magnitude hits are detected in the GPS signal.

At State the state machine may wait for the AGC to decrease RFI gain. The expiry of the timer may imply that the RFI is not pulsed. In other words if the RFI occurs for longer than 100 microseconds then the RFI may be implied to be continuous. Thus the RFI may be longer than the 100 microsecond duration of the timer. The AGC may be adjusted until the magnitude of the RFI becomes a predetermined hit ratio. For example the AGC may be adjusted until the magnitude of the RFI becomes a 16 hit ratio. In other examples the percentage of magnitude hits may correspond to a specific GPS software algorithm. Alternatively the AGC may be adjusted to compensate for the additional continuous RFI. In State the non blanked signal may be communicated to a GPS receiver or a SAASM. When the running sum of continuous magnitude hits are reduced via AGC control the state machine may transition to State .

At State the AGC may be reset to nominal strength. If 1280 consecutive magnitude non hits are detected then the AGC may be lowered to increase the signal gain until the magnitude of the RFI becomes a predetermined hit ratio. For example after 1280 consecutive non hits are detected the AGC may be lowered to increase the signal gain until the magnitude of the RFI becomes a 16 hit ratio. The state machine may transition from State to State to initiate pulse RFI detection.

In one example the GPS signal may include continuous RFI and then revert to a pulsed RFI. Since the AGC may have attenuated the intermediate frequency IF signal the magnitude bit associated with the pulsed RFI may appear as a normal signal i.e. a GPS signal without RFI during the ON portion of the pulse. During the OFF portion of the pulse the magnitude bit may appear as a string of zeros. As a result the blank signal may not be multiplexed with the GPS signal because the GPS signal may be attenuated by the IF AGC. Thus a string of zeros may be communicated to the AGC state machine for a predetermined time period i.e. State . In one example the string of zeros may be communicated to the AGC state machine for 10 milliseconds ms . After the 10 ms the AGC may return to maximum IF gain and pulsed RFI detection may be applied at State .

A state machine may detect pulsed RFI in the GPS signal based on the GPS signal samples that are temporarily stored in the FIFO delay buffer . The state machine may select a blank signal to communicate to a Selective Availability Anti Spoofing Module SAASM in place of the GPS signal with the pulsed RFI. Alternatively the blank signal may be communicated to a GPS receiver . The blank signal may be communicated along with GPS signals that do not have pulsed RFI. In other words GPS signals without pulsed RFI may be communicated to the GPS receiver but the GPS signals may include one or more intervals of blank signals. The intervals of blank signals may indicate portions of the GPS signal where pulsed RFI was removed. The GPS receiver may use the GPS signals to determine the location of the GPS device .

In one example the FIFO delay buffer and the state machine may be included in a field programmable gate array FPGA . The Very High Speed Integrated Circuits Hardware Description Language VHDL associated with the FPGA may be modified to mitigate the amount of pulsed RFI in the GPS signal before the GPS signal is communicated to the SAASM or the GPS receiver .

A pulsed RFI detection module may be configured to detect for pulsed RFI in the GPS signal based on samples of the magnitude bits in the GPS signal. The pulsed RFI detection module may be further configured to detect at least 100 consecutive magnitude bits out of 128 samples indicating that the GPS signal includes the pulsed RFI.

A pulsed RFI reduction module may be configured to reduce the amount of pulsed RFI received at the GPS receiver by communicating a blank signal to the GPS receiver for a predefined time period. In one example the pulsed RFI reduction module may be configured to communicate the blank signal for the predefined time period upon the samples of the magnitude bits indicating the pulsed RFI to the GPS receiver. In addition the pulsed RFI reduction module may be configured to multiplex the blank signal with the GPS signal for up to 100 microseconds upon detection of the pulsed RFI in the GPS signal and reduce the amount pulsed RFI received at the GPS receiver by communicating the blank signal to the GPS receiver for an additional 160 samples after the 100 microseconds

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a method for reducing pulsed radio frequency interference RFI is disclosed. The method can comprise providing receiving the GPS signal at a GPS device wherein the GPS device includes a GPS receiver and the GPS signal includes a plurality of sign and magnitude bits. In one example the GPS signal may be received at a First In First Out FIFO delay buffer included in the GPS device. The method can also comprise detecting pulsed RFI in the GPS signal based on samples of the magnitude bits in the GPS signal. Additionally the method can comprise reducing the pulsed RFI received at the GPS receiver by communicating a blank signal when the samples of the magnitude bits indicate the pulsed RFI.

In one aspect the method can further comprise communicating the blank signal to the GPS receiver for a predefined time period. In another aspect the method can comprise communicating GPS signals that do not contain pulsed RFI to a selective availability anti spoofing module SAASM included in the GPS device for a predefined time period. In addition the method can comprise communicating GPS signals that do not contain pulsed RFI to the GPS receiver the GPS signals including one or more intervals of blank signals.

In one aspect the method comprises detecting pulsed RFI in the GPS signal by detecting at least 100 consecutive magnitude bits out of 128 samples indicate that the GPS signal contains the pulsed RFI. In addition the method comprises lowering an automatic gain control AGC of the GPS device when 1280 consecutive samples of the magnitude bits do not indicate pulsed RFI. Furthermore the method comprises detecting the pulsed RFI in the GPS signal based on GPS signal samples and reducing the pulsed RFI received at the GPS receiver by communicating the blank signal to the GPS receiver for up to 100 microseconds in accordance with a timer.

In one aspect the method comprises detecting that the GPS signal samples do not indicate the pulsed RFI when the blank signal is being communicated to the GPS receiver in accordance with the timer and communicating the blank signal to the GPS receiver for an additional 160 samples for reducing the pulsed RFI received at the GPS receiver. In addition the method comprises detecting that the samples of the GPS signal do not include the pulsed RFI by detecting that less than 100 consecutive magnitude bits out of 128 samples indicate a presence of pulsed RFI in the GPS signal.

In one aspect the method comprises determining that GPS signal samples indicate continuous RFI upon expiry of the timer and adjusting an automatic gain control AGC of the GPS device to compensate for the continuous RFI. In one example adjusting the AGC includes providing a fixed ratio of 16 of the samples of the magnitude bits indicating pulsed RFI to the AGC. In addition the method comprises receiving the GPS signal at a First In First Out FIFO delay buffer included in the GPS device.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

