---

title: System to provide price adjustments based on indicated product interest
abstract: A system to provide price adjustments based on indicated product interest includes reception of an indication from a customer of interest in a first product, reception of an indication from a customer of interest in a second product, determination of a price adjustment for the second product based on the indication of interest in the first product, and transmission of the price adjustment to the customer. By virtue of the foregoing features, a retailer may be willing to provide a price adjustment for the second product which would otherwise not be provided. Moreover, such a price adjustment may incent the customer to purchase the second product in a case that the second product would not otherwise be purchased, thereby potentially increasing a total profit received by the retailer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08781894&OS=08781894&RS=08781894
owner: Inventor Holdings, LLC
number: 08781894
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130603
---
This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 a to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 606 364 filed Jun. 29 2000 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ADJUSTING PRICES ASSOCIATED WITH PRODUCTS issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 473 341 on Jun. 25 2013 which itself claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 204 519 filed May 16 2000 the contents of each application hereby being incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

This application is also related to i U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 085 424 filed May 27 1998 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 138 105 on Oct. 24 2000 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DYNAMIC ASSEMBLY OF PACKAGES IN RETAIL ENVIRONMENTS and ii U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 360 422 filed Jul. 23 1999 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 899 710 on Mar. 1 2011 titled DETERMINATION AND PRESENTATION OF PACKAGE PRICING OFFERS IN RESPONSE TO CUSTOMER INTEREST IN A PRODUCT the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

The present invention relates to systems for selling products to customers. More specifically the present invention concerns a system to determine transmit and provide a price adjustment for a product based on expressed interest in other products.

Competition for customers in retail markets is fierce. As a result retailers are constantly evaluating and executing various methods designed to attract customers. According to one method a retailer operating a retail store discounts prices on some products in order to encourage customers to visit the retail store and to purchase other products for non discounted prices.

An ability of a retailer to attract customers with a discounted price is typically related to a size of a discount reflected in the discounted price. However selling a product for a price reflecting a large discount often results in a net loss for the retailer since the discounted price is often less than a cost of the product to the retailer. Therefore large discounts on prices of products may not prove beneficial to retailers unless customers who purchase the products also purchase other products for non discounted prices. Since retailers are not assured that other products will be purchased along with the discounted products retailers are hesitant to provide large discounts. Consequently traditional discounting is limited in its ability to attract customers.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 612 868 and 5 173 851 to Off et al. describe systems in which a coupon for a first product is provided to a customer upon purchase of a second product. The first product is selected based on a stored relationship indicating that a customer purchasing the second product may also desire the first product. Several factors reduce the attractiveness of these systems to customers. For example a customer who has selected products to purchase and has approached a checkout area with the selected products will often be reluctant to add a product to the selected products. Also potential customers possess highly varied tastes and needs. Therefore it is unlikely that many customers will desire a first product which is selected based simply on a stored relationship with a second product.

Each of the related U.S. Patent Applications listed above describes systems designed to address the foregoing problems. For example U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 085 424 describes a system in which in one embodiment packages of several products are created based on factors such as whether the products are complementary inventory levels relative product margins revenue management principles or the like. Using the same or additional factors the system determines a package price for which to offer the several products comprising the package. Typically the package price is less than the sum of the retail prices of each of the several products.

According to one embodiment of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 360 422 an indication of interest in a primary product is received from a customer and a secondary product is identified based on the primary product and factors such as purchasing history of the customer previous interest indicated by the customer stored associations of complementary products retail profit margins of the primary product and the secondary product or the like. Finally the primary product and the secondary product are offered to the customer for a package price which is less than a sum of the retail prices of the primary product and the secondary product.

Since the systems of the foregoing U.S. Patent Applications allow a retailer to offset a loss in profit margin from a sale of one product with a gain in profit margin from a sale of another product a retailer is more willing to deeply discount a retail price of one of the offered products. As a result an ability of the retailer to attract customers is greater than that offered by conventional discounting techniques.

However the above described systems fail to attract certain customers to a retail store regardless of the size of an offered discount because these customers are simply not interested in the second product. Since these customers will not experience any discount these customers are not encouraged to visit the retail store. Accordingly what is needed is a system for discounting prices which does not erode profit margins to the extent of conventional discounting systems and which is more attractive to customers than other contemplated systems.

The present invention addresses the foregoing by in one aspect including reception of an indication from a customer of interest in a first product reception of an indication of interest in a second product determination of a price adjustment for the second product based on the indication of interest in the first product and transmission of the price adjustment to the customer. By virtue of the foregoing features a customer is presented with an opportunity to receive a price adjustment for a product in which he is interested. Therefore the customer may be incented to purchase the second product in a case where he would not otherwise purchase the second product. Moreover the retailer is willing to provide a price adjustment for the second product which would otherwise not be provided because of the indicated interest in the first product which suggests that the retailer may receive a profit from a sale of the first product.

In an additional aspect also transmitted with the price adjustment is an indication that the customer will be charged a price for the second product according to the price adjustment only if the first product is purchased. Such a feature provides extra incentive for the customer to purchase both the first product and the second product. Since the retailer is assured that the price adjustment will be applied only if the first product is purchased and the retail profit margin of the first product is received the retailer may be more willing to transmit a price adjustment reflecting a significant discount in the sale price of the second product.

An additional aspect of the invention includes a determination of whether the customer is purchasing the first product a sale of the second product to the customer for a sale price based on the price adjustment if it is determined that the customer is purchasing the first product and a sale of the second product to the customer for a retail price if it is determined that the customer is not purchasing the first product. This aspect provides further features for assuring the retailer that the customer will be charged in accordance with the price adjustment for the second product only if the first product is purchased and thereby also assuring the retailer that the retail profit margin of the second product will not be sacrificed without receiving some benefit in return.

Other aspects further increase the attractiveness of the price adjustment by including transmission of a retail price of the second product along with the price adjustment. As a result a customer is able to determine easily an extent of a discount reflected in the price adjustment.

In further aspects the price adjustment is determined based on revenue management information related to the first product and to the second product in order to ensure that a profit obtained through a sale of the first product and the second product for a price reflecting the price adjustment is acceptable to the retailer. In some cases such a profit is greater than that obtainable through a sale of the first product alone.

In another aspect the present invention includes indication of an interest in a product and reception of a price adjustment for the product wherein the price adjustment is determined based on the interest in a first product and is different from another price adjustment for the product received in a case that no interest in the first product is indicated. According to yet another aspect the present invention includes indication of an interest in a product and reception of a price adjustment for the product wherein the price adjustment is a first price adjustment if the customer has previously indicated an interest in a first product and is a second price adjustment if the customer has not previously indicated an interest in the first product. By virtue of each of the previous two aspects price adjustments for a product may be varied depending upon a customer s expressed interest in other products.

In further aspects the present invention concerns identification of a product to be purchased by a customer determination of whether the product is associated with a price adjustment transmitted to the customer and determined based on an indication of interest from the customer in a first product and determination of whether the first product is being or has been purchased by the customer and if it is determined that the first product is being or has been purchased by the customer charging the customer a price for the product based on the price adjustment. The foregoing features allow a retailer to offer significant price adjustments to attract customers since the price adjustment is provided only if a purchase of the first product is assured. Purchase of the first product may be desired by the retailer to ensure reception of a retail profit margin of the first product to ensure disposal of excess inventory of the first product or for other reasons.

According to another aspect the invention relates to an apparatus including means for obtaining an indication from a customer of interest in a first product means for obtaining an indication from the customer of interest in a second product means for producing a price adjustment for the second product based on the indication of interest in the first product and means for transmitting the price adjustment to the customer.

With these and other advantages and features of the invention that will become hereinafter apparent the nature of the invention may be more clearly understood by reference to the following detailed description the appended claims and to the several drawings attached hereto.

To insure clarity of the following description set forth below are definitions of several terms used herein. The scope of the present invention is not to be deemed limited by the definitions.

Price Adjustment A value used to determine a sale price of at least one product. Types of price adjustments include prices 100.00 price discount values 10 off a retail price and percentage discount values 10 off a retail price . It should be noted that price discount values and percentage discount values may be defined in terms of prices other than a retail price.

Product A good or service. The term product may also be used herein to refer to one or more related or unrelated goods and or services.

Retailer An entity which sells products to customers. Such entities include proprietors of traditional retail stores proprietors of online retail stores product manufacturers product warehousers telemarketers mail order services and online storefront providers.

Retail Profit Margin A profit received by a retailer through sale of a product for a retail price. A retail profit margin may be calculated by subtracting a product s cost from the product s retail price.

Retail Store Generally a location at which products are offered for sale by a retailer. Traditionally a retail store is a physical building in which a retailer offers and sells products to customers. Retail stores also include websites in which descriptions and visual representations of products for sale may be viewed by customers and through which the customers may purchase one or more of the products for sale.

Sale Price A price which a customer pays in exchange for a product. Sale prices include retail prices and prices adjusted according to price adjustments.

As a brief introduction to the following detailed description one specific embodiment of the present invention is now described. According to this embodiment a customer executes a web browser on a personal computer and enters into the web browser a uniform resource locator URL corresponding to a website operated by a product retailer. The URL is sent over the World Wide Web to an appropriate web server located in a retailer controller and in response the web server delivers a web page to the web browser which displays the web page on the personal computer. The customer then navigates through various web pages of the website using the web browser in order to shop for products.

In this embodiment one web page contains a list of hyperlinks with each hyperlink being associated with a particular product. Accordingly upon selecting one of the hyperlinks the web browser receives and displays a web page containing a view a description and a retail price of an associated first product. The customer indicates an interest in the first product by selecting an add to cart icon displayed on the web page. As a result the retailer controller records that the customer has indicated an interest in the first product. Next the customer selects a hyperlink associated with a second product.

Based on the indicated interest in the first product the retailer controller determines a price adjustment for the second product. In this example the price adjustment is a discounted price which is less than a retail price for which the second product would be sold absent the indicated interest in the first product. A web page corresponding to the second product is then transmitted to the web browser the web page including the price adjustment and a view a description and the retail price of the second product. The web page also specifies to the customer that the second product will be sold in accordance with the price adjustment only if the customer also purchases the first product.

The customer continues adding products to his cart in order to designate those products for purchase. The customer then selects a displayed checkout icon to indicate a desire to purchase the products currently in the cart. In response the customer is charged according to price adjustments for those products in the cart which are associated with price adjustments and for which required products are also being purchased and is charged a retail price for all other products in the cart. For example the customer is charged for the second product according to the price adjustment if the first product is being purchased and is otherwise charged the retail price for the second product.

It should be noted that the foregoing merely describes one particular embodiment of the invention and that the invention should not be deemed limited to the particular aspects mentioned above.

Each of the elements of the system may be located in a retail store. For example the retailer controller may be a computer server located in a control center within the retail store and the customer devices and may be customer kiosks situated at various locations within the retail store. However the elements of the system need not be located at a retail store or in a same location. Rather the system may be used in an online embodiment wherein at least one of the customer devices and is located remotely from the retailer controller . It should be noted that the system may simultaneously provide remote and in store functionality.

Multiple physical devices may be used to perform the functions of the retailer controller according to the present invention and some or all of these functions may also be performed manually. The retailer controller may be operated by a retailer by an entity providing customer acquisitions services to retailers by an entity providing shopping and retail services to customers by an entity providing online store fronts to retailers or by any other entity to which the present invention may provide benefits. In the following description actions which may be performed by an entity operating the retailer controller such as reception of payment will be imputed to the retailer controller .

As described above at least one of the customer devices and may be a dedicated kiosk operated within a retail store to communicate with the retailer controller which may or may not be located in the retail store. One or more of the customer devices and may also comprise a personal computer operated by a customer to access and interact with a website provided by a web server executing within the retailer controller . Other types of customer devices and usable in conjunction with the present invention include a personal digital assistant PDA an Internet kiosk a hand held bar code scanner a pager a cellular phone a pay phone a video game an automated teller machine a slot machine a watch a vending machine an in car communications system such as the NAVSTAR system for providing World Wide Web data or the like or any other device adapted to communicate with the retailer controller over whatever communication media exist between the device and the controller . For example in a case that the customer device is a PDA such as a Palm VII which communicates with the retailer controller over the World Wide Web the customer device may execute a web browser application for passing data to the retailer controller and or requesting data from the retailer controller .

In another example the customer device comprises both a retailer terminal not shown located at a retail store and a device such as a PDA used to communicate with the retailer terminal via an infrared or other connection. Such a retailer terminal may be associated with a single product or a group of products. This association allows the retailer controller to identify a product or group of products relating to a received communication by reference to the retailer terminal from which the communication was received.

One or more of the POS terminals and may comprise an electronic cash register computer terminal or other type of POS terminal. In one embodiment each of the POS terminals and is located at a single retail store and is used to determine prices for products brought to the terminal and to charge a customer for each of the products. The POS terminals and may also comprise dedicated terminals used solely in conjunction with the retailer controller to determine price adjustments according to the present invention or credit debit card authorization terminals provided with software enabling operation in accordance with the present invention. In other embodiments the retailer controller controls the determination and transmission of price adjustments for several retailers and each of the POS terminals and is located at a different retail store along with one of the customer devices and .

As shown in the customer device may communicate directly with the POS terminal . Such communication may occur via an infrared or other interface and may be used to transmit a customer identifier a payment identifier a transaction identifier and or price adjustment information stored in the customer device to the POS terminal .

Although three customer devices are shown in and and three POS terminals are also shown in any number of customer devices and POS terminals may be in communication with the retailer controller according to either embodiment of the invention. Furthermore although the communication media between the customer devices and the POS terminals and and the retailer controller are represented by dedicated connections it should be understood that one or more of the customer devices and and in the case of the system of the POS terminals and may be connected to a network such as a Local Area Network LAN or a Wide Area Network WAN to which is also connected the retailer controller . The network may be an Internet Protocol IP based network such as the World Wide Web and or one or more of a satellite based network a cellular network a radio frequency RF network a telephone network a cable television network or any other communication system for transferring data between locations.

It should also be understood that the invention may be embodied in hardware configurations other than those shown in and . For example the invention may be embodied entirely in a customer device provided to customers by a retailer upon entry into a retail store. In other embodiments indications of interest are received and price adjustments are determined by a customer device or a POS terminal and the POS terminal is used to charge a customer appropriate retail prices and prices based on price adjustments.

Those skilled in the art will understand that devices in communication with each other need not be continually transmitting to each other. On the contrary such devices need only to transmit to each other as necessary and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example a device in communication with another device over the World Wide Web may not transmit data to the other for weeks at a time.

The retailer controller of comprises a processor such as one or more RISC processors. The processor is coupled to a communication port through which the retailer controller communicates with other devices. For example the retailer controller receives an indication of interest in a first product from the customer device and transmits a price adjustment for a second product to the customer device through the communication port . As mentioned above each of the customer devices and as well as the POS terminals and may communicate with the retailer controller over different communication media. Accordingly the communication port is configured in one embodiment to communicate using hardware and software protocols of the different media. In addition the retailer controller can communicate with locally attached devices through the communication port .

Also connected to the processor are an input device a display and a printer . The input device may be any device for inputting data such as a keyboard a touch screen a mouse a voice input device an infrared port or the like. The input device can be used by personnel to enter data used by the retailer controller in accordance with the present invention and can be used by an employee or a customer to input an indication of interest in a product to the retailer controller .

The display is used to output graphics and text and may be a CRT computer monitor a flat panel display or another type of display device. Graphics text or other data may also be output by the printer in hardcopy format.

The processor is also in communication with a data storage device . The data storage device is generally a data memory and may include any appropriate combination of magnetic optical and or semiconductor memory. The data storage device may also include for example Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM a compact disc and or a hard disk. Furthermore the processor and the storage device may each be for example i located entirely within a single computer or other computing device or ii connected to each other by remote communication media such as a serial port cable telephone line or radio frequency transceiver. In one embodiment the retailer controller comprises one or more computers that are connected to a remote server computer for maintaining databases.

The data storage device stores a program of processor executable process steps. The program may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. The program can be stored in the storage device during manufacture of the storage device can be downloaded from a compact disc or other computer readable medium or can be retrieved from a remote or local source through the communication port in the form of a signal having the program encoded thereon.

The processor executes the process steps of the program and thereby operates in accordance with the present invention and particularly in accordance with the steps described herein with respect to the retailer controller . In one example the process steps of the program are executed to receive an indication from a customer of interest in a first product to receive an indication from a customer of interest in a second product to determine a price adjustment for the second product based on the indication of interest in the first product and to transmit the price adjustment to the customer.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the steps of the program are transferred from the data storage device into a main memory such as a RAM and executed therefrom by the processor . In alternate embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with processor executable software process steps for implementation of the processes of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware or software.

The data storage device also stores processor executable process steps for basic operation of the retailer controller such as process steps of an operating system a Web server a database management system and device drivers for allowing the retailer controller to interface with computer peripheral devices. These latter process steps are known to those skilled in the art and are therefore not described in detail herein.

The storage device also stores i a customer database ii a product database and iii a transaction database . The databases to are described in detail below and portions thereof are depicted in tabular form with sample entries in the accompanying figures. In this regard and as will be understood by those skilled in the art the schematic illustrations and accompanying descriptions of the databases presented herein are merely intended to demonstrate operable systems for associating and storing information which may be used in accordance with the present invention. A number of other data structures may be employed besides those suggested by the tables shown. Similarly the illustrated entries of the databases represent sample information only those skilled in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those illustrated.

As shown the customer device includes a processor connected to a communication port . The communication port is configured to transmit data to the retailer controller via a network connection such as the World Wide Web via an intermediate device such as the above described retailer terminal via dedicated connection or via another connection and to receive data from the retailer controller . Also connected to the processor are an input device for receiving data and instructions from a customer a display for displaying data to the customer and a printer for creating a hardcopy of data such as of a confirmation of a price adjustment and terms thereof. The input device the display and the printer may comprise any of the input devices displays or printers discussed above.

A storage device is also connected to the processor and stores data and processor executable process steps for the operation of the customer device . Specifically the storage device stores process steps of a program which may be executed to control the customer device to operate as described herein. The process steps of the program may be stored in the storage device during its manufacture may be downloaded from a compact disc or other computer readable medium or may be retrieved from a remote or local source through the communication port embodied in a signal having the process steps encoded thereon.

Also stored in the storage device are processor executable process steps of a web browser which can be executed by the processor to provide communication between the customer device and a Web server executing within the retailer controller via the World Wide Web. Of course depending on the communication media disposed between the customer device and the retailer controller other known applications or hardware may be needed for the customer device to communicate with the retailer controller . Process steps of an operating system not shown such as the Palm operating system are also stored in the storage device and executed by the processor to control basic operation of the customer device .

In some embodiments the invention is embodied solely in the customer device which may be given to customers upon entering a retail store. In these embodiments the program includes process steps executed by the processor to receive an indication from a customer of interest in a first product to receive an indication of interest in a second product to determine a price adjustment for the second product based on the indication of interest in the first product and to transmit the price adjustment to the customer. The program also includes according to these embodiments process steps executable to identify a product to be purchased by a customer to determine whether the product is associated with a price adjustment transmitted to the customer and determined based on an indication of interest from the customer in a first product and to determine whether the first product is being or has been purchased by the customer and if it is determined that the first product is being or has been purchased by the customer to charge the customer a price for the product based on the price adjustment. The databases to are also stored in the storage device according to some of these embodiments.

The POS terminal of includes a processor for executing processor executable process steps and a communication port connected thereto for communicating with the retailer controller over a network or a dedicated connection. The communication port may also be used to communicate directly with the customer devices and or with other devices. Of course in the latter embodiment the communication port is configured to provide communication interfaces compatible with the customer devices and and the other devices.

Also connected to the processor are a bar code scanner for scanning a product bar code usually located on product packaging and for extracting a product identifier such as a Universal Product Code UPC a Store Keeping Unit number or a product identifier internal to the retailer therefrom. Many types of such scanners are known in the art including a hand held scanner and a fixed scanner across which a bar code is swiped.

An employee input device is also connected to the processor . The employee input device allows an employee to manually enter a product identifier into the POS terminal and also provides cash register functionality. Accordingly the employee input device comprises a numeric keypad function keys for invoking convenient functions and may be embodied in a keyboard a voice recognition unit a touch screen or other input system.

A display is connected to the processor and is used primarily to display prices to the employee and to the customer. In one embodiment a price to be charged to the customer is displayed on the display each time a bar code is scanned by the bar code scanner . After all desired products have been scanned the display displays a total price due to the retailer. The display may comprise a CRT display a flat panel display an LCD display an LED display or the like. A printer is primarily used to print receipts and or coupons for presentation to a customer and may comprise a thermal printer a laser printer an inkjet printer or other type of printer.

Also connected to the processor is a customer input output device which is used by a customer to enter a customer identifier and payment information into the POS terminal . For example the customer input output device may present a request to the customer to swipe her frequent buyer card or other retailer affiliated card through a magnetic card reader of the customer input output device . After the customer swipes her card and a customer identifier is read therefrom the customer input output device may request the customer to swipe a credit or debit card through the card reader so as to provide an account to which the total price may be charged. Accordingly the customer input output device may comprise a credit or debit card authorization terminal.

In other embodiments the customer input output device is an interface port through which the customer device such as a PDA may communicate with the POS terminal . As such the customer identifier and or the account identifier may be directly transmitted from the customer device to the POS terminal . The customer input output device according to this embodiment may also be used to receive price adjustment information discussed in detail below directly from the customer device .

A storage device is connected to the processor and stores processor executable process steps of a POS program which are executed by the processor so as to allow the POS terminal to operate in accordance with the present invention. As described above with respect to the storage device and the storage device the process steps of the POS program may be stored in the storage device during manufacture of the storage device may be downloaded from a compact disc or other computer readable medium or can be retrieved from a remote or local source through the communication port in the form of a signal having the process steps encoded thereon.

Each record shown in the illustrated portion of the customer database includes several fields the fields specifying i a customer identifier preferably used throughout the databases of the data storage device to associate data with an associated customer ii a name of the associated customer iii contact information for use in contacting the associated customer iv a payment identifier usable to extract payment from the associated customer and v a customer rating . It should be noted that the invention may be embodied in a system which does not use any of the information illustrated in the customer database of .

The contact information as shown may include any type of information by which a retailer may contact a customer such as a postal address an electronic mail address a telephone number a facsimile number or the like. The payment identifier may specify a credit card number a checking account number an online bill payment service or other information using which the retailer may extract a payment from a customer.

The customer rating in one embodiment is based on an associated customer s purchasing history. For example a customer having purchased items resulting in over 500 profit for a retailer in a past year is assigned a Gold customer rating while a customer having purchased items resulting in less than 50 in profit is assigned a Bronze customer rating . A customer may also pay a fee in order to be associated with a particular customer rating. In one embodiment the customer rating is used to determine a price adjustment to provide to a customer. In this embodiment after receiving an indication from a customer of interest in a first product the retailer controller determines a price adjustment for a second product based on the indication and based on a customer rating associated with the customer. For example the price adjustment reflects a lower sale price if the customer is associated with a Gold customer rating than if the customer is associated with a Bronze customer rating . In other embodiments only customers having a certain rating are eligible to receive price adjustments according to the present invention.

The retail price is in one embodiment a price for which an associated product is offered for sale and sold to a customer absent any price adjustment according to the invention. Of course a retail price may reflect a price discount other than a price adjustment according to the invention. For example a retail price associated with a product may be decreased by 10 in a case that the retailer wishes to provide at least a 10 discount to any customer purchasing the product.

The cost may include a price for which the retailer purchases the associated product from a manufacturer a cost for warehousing the product other inventory costs and overhead such as rent and utilities attributable or charged to the product. The amount in inventory may be used as an estimate of demand for an associated product. For example the retailer controller may offer a significant price adjustment for a product associated with a large amount in inventory . It should be noted that revenue management information other than a cost and an amount in inventory may be stored in the product database and used to determine a price adjustment for a product. Revenue management information may include information relating to demand supply volume profit margins forecasted inventory or other variables such as those specified in the book Revenue Management Hardcore Tactics for Market Domination by Robert G. Gross.

The minimum sale price may be a price set by a product manufacturer in order to control price dilution. In this regard product manufacturers often expend great effort in developing a pricing structure intended to maximize sales of each product in a product line. Reducing a retail price of such a product may compromise the integrity of the pricing structure. Accordingly these manufacturers may set a minimum sale price to preserve the integrity of the pricing structure. In one embodiment the minimum sale price is compared to a price adjustment determined for a product to ensure that the price adjustment does not reflect a sale price of less than the minimum sale price .

A tabular representation of a portion of the transaction database is shown in . Generally the transaction database may be used by the retailer controller the customer device and or the POS terminal to determine appropriate sale prices to charge a customer for products represented therein. In one embodiment the transaction database is used to identify a product to be purchased by a customer to determine whether the product is associated with a price adjustment transmitted to the customer and determined based on an indication of interest from the customer in a first product to determine whether the first product is being or has been purchased by the customer and to charge the customer according to the price adjustment if it is determined that the first product is being or has been purchased by the customer.

The fields of the transaction database include i a transaction identifier identifying a single sales transaction involving one or more products ii a customer identifier uniquely identifying a customer participating in the sales transaction iii a product identifier identifying a product involved in the sales transaction iv a retail price of the product v a price adjustment for the product and vi required product s in which an interest must be shown in one embodiment or which must be purchased according to another embodiment in order for a customer to receive the associated price adjustment .

As shown in a single product identifier may be associated with several price adjustments with each of the several price adjustments associated with respective required product s . As also shown in more than one required product s may be associated with a price adjustment and a product identifier . In the latter case and depending upon the particular embodiment a customer must indicate an interest in indicate an intent to purchase or actually purchase each of the more than one required product s in order to receive the associated price adjustment .

In one example illustrated in a customer identified by the customer identifier C 2532 is required to purchase the required product P 10596 in order to receive a price adjustment associated with the product identifier P 96832 and is further required to purchase the required product P 96832 in order to receive the price adjustment associated with the product identifier P 12457. It should be understood that any number of products may be similarly interrelated.

In one embodiment the transaction database is stored in the storage device of the customer device . According to this embodiment the transaction database may be populated by the retailer controller while a customer shops for products in a retail store and transmitted to the customer device prior to checkout or may be created and populated by the customer device entirely. In either case the transaction database may be transmitted from the customer device to the POS terminal via the customer input output device prior to checkout. Population and usage of the transaction database will be described in detail below.

Briefly the process steps include reception of an indication from the customer of an interest in a first product reception of an indication from the customer of an interest in a second product determination of a price adjustment for the second product based on the indication of interest in the first product and transmission of the price adjustment to the customer.

Initially in step S an indication of interest in a first product is received from a customer. It should be noted that also received in step S may be an indication of interest in one or more other products in which case the process steps may be affected as noted below.

An indication of interest in a product may be received in many ways in accordance with the present invention. For example in an embodiment in which the customer is physically present in a retail store the indication of interest is received when a customer uses a customer device such as an in store kiosk a PDA or other handheld device in communication with the retailer controller via the World Wide Web or another type of network to locate and request information regarding a first product. An indication of interest may also be received once the customer uses a customer device to indicate an intent to purchase the first product by adding the first product to a real or virtual shopping cart . An indication of interest may be received in step S as a result of the customer simply entering the retail store approaching a customer service counter registering to receive price adjustments or accepting a handheld device offered by the retail store. The customer may use such a handheld device to scan a product bar code on a first product in which case a UPC extracted from the bar code and transmitted to the retail controller is received in step S as an indication of interest in the first product. The retail store may track a customer s location within the store and receive an indication of interest in a first product if the customer approaches the first product or it is determined that the customer is located near to the first product for a specified amount of time thereby suggesting that the customer is evaluating the first product. Additionally the indication of interest received in step S may include a commitment by the customer to purchase the first product.

In an online embodiment of step S a customer s initial request to access a home page of a website operated by a retailer or an indication that a web page including a representation of the product has been viewed for a particular period of time may each be considered an indication of interest in a first product. Also selection of a picture or a description of a product displayed on a web page of the website addition of the product into a virtual shopping cart or an indication of a desire to purchase the first product may each be considered received indications of interest in the first product in step S. Further details of one online embodiment are described below with respect to through .

An indication of customer interest may be received from a party other than a customer. For example an online ad tracking service such as Doubleclick friends of the customer or an entity storing information regarding the customer s tastes needs or desires may provide a retailer with an indication of customer interest received in step S. In addition information relating to a previous purchase of a product by the customer or by the customer s friends may be received in step S as an indication of an interest in the same or a different product.

In a case that the first product is an initial product in which an indication of interest is received the retailer controller or the customer device may create a record of the transaction database in step S which corresponds to a new transaction. Accordingly a transaction identifier identifying the new transaction is assigned to the record as is a customer identifier identifying the customer. Of course a record of the transaction database corresponding to a new transaction may be created when a customer enters a retail store receives a customer device from a retailer accesses a retailer website registers at a kiosk in a retail store or at other appropriate times. Included in the record may be a product identifier corresponding to the first product as shown with respect to the product identifier P 55667 in .

Following step S an indication of an interest in a second product is received from the customer in step S. In one embodiment a message is transmitted to the customer such as Keep shopping for more discounts after step S in order to encourage the customer to indicate an interest in a second product. Such an indication may consist of any of the activities described above with respect to step S. Moreover the indication may be received based on a determination of an association between the first product and a second product or based on a pre stored association between the first product and the second product.

Several methods for determining a second product based on an indication of interest in a first product are described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 09 085 424 and 09 360 422. In one method described in Ser. No. 09 085 424 a second product is determined based on a first product and on revenue management related data such as relative profit margins inventory demand and whether or not the products are complementary in nature. An indication may also be received in step S based on stored information indicating that the customer previously indicated an interest in the second product or based on a customer profile indicating the customer s likes dislikes hobbies occupation gender income range or other information.

Next in step S a price adjustment for the second product is determined based on the indication of interest in the first product. A specific embodiment for determining a price adjustment according to step S is described below with respect to . Generally the price adjustment may be determined in step S based on the retail price of the second product a retail profit margin of the first product a retail profit margin of the second product revenue management information as described above a likelihood that the customer will actually purchase the first product and or a customer rating . The price adjustment may also be determined based on a price sensitivity of the customer which may be determined based on whether the first product is a high end or a low end product. In one embodiment the price adjustment is determined based on an indication of interest in one or more additional products which may be stored in the customer database .

In another embodiment a price adjustment is determined in step S based on respective retail prices of several products selected by a customer for purchase and based on any price adjustments already determined for the several products. In this regard an already determined price adjustment may be considered in the step S determination only if included among the several products are other products which a customer is required to purchase in order to receive the already determined price adjustment.

In one embodiment of step S a determined price adjustment associated with a given product is compared with a minimum sale price also associated with the given product to ensure that a sale price according to the price adjustment is not less than the minimum sale price . If so the price adjustment is redetermined. It should be noted that price adjustments according to the invention may include other constraints such as non transferability expiration dates times and required future commitments e.g. subscriptions or other purchases .

According to certain embodiments the transaction database is populated with transaction information in step S. Specifically associated in the transaction database are a product identifier identifying the second product a retail price of the second product which may be determined from the product database the determined price adjustment for the second product and as required product s a product identifier of the first product. If the determination of the price adjustment was based on more than one product more than one required product s may be associated with the price adjustment .

After the price adjustment is determined in step S flow proceeds to step S. In step S the price adjustment is transmitted to the customer. As mentioned above in one embodiment also transmitted to the customer in step S is an indication that the second product will be sold in accordance with the price adjustment only if the first product is purchased. Although in some embodiments the price adjustment is transmitted to the customer in step S using a same communication method as used to receive the indications of step S and step S the price adjustment may be transmitted in step S using other systems. In one example an indication of interest in a second product is received by customer selection of a hyperlink displayed by a web browser and describing the second product. In response a web page is created to include the price adjustment and the created web page is sent to the web browser. In another embodiment the price adjustment is transmitted to the customer after the customer has indicated a desire to purchase the second product thereby providing a pleasant surprise to the customer.

Also transmitted in one embodiment of step S is a retail price of the second product which may be determined by reference to the product database . Transmission of the retail price along with the price adjustment may provide additional enticement to the customer to purchase the second product because the transmission may assist the customer in appreciating a discount reflected in the price adjustment.

In some embodiments flow returns from step S to step S to receive an indication of interest in another product. Accordingly a subsequent determination of a price adjustment in step S may be based on the indication of interest in the another product on the indication of interest in the first product on the indication of interest in the second product or on any combination thereof.

By virtue of the process steps a customer is presented with an opportunity to receive a price adjustment for a product in which he is interested. Therefore the customer may be incented to purchase the product in a case where he would not otherwise purchase the product. Moreover the retailer is willing to provide a price adjustment for the product which would otherwise not be provided because of the indicated interest in another product which suggests that the retailer may receive a profit from a sale of the another product.

Flow begins at step S in which information is retrieved relating to the first product in which an indication of interest was received in step S. Such information may be retrieved in step S by using a product identifier corresponding to the first product to locate a corresponding record in the product database . According to the example described by the process steps the information retrieved in step S includes a retail price and an associated cost . Of course other information relating to the first product may be retrieved in step S.

Next in step S a retail profit margin of the first product is determined. In one embodiment the retail profit margin is determined by subtracting the retrieved cost from the associated retail price . Information is then retrieved in step S related to the second product in which interest was indicated in step S. The information retrieved in step S may be the same information retrieved in step S albeit with respect to the second product or may be different information. In the present example the information is retrieved in step S by locating a record in the product database including a product identifier identical to the product identifier of the second product and by retrieving a retail price and a cost associated with the record. Accordingly in step S a retail profit margin of the second product is determined by subtracting the cost retrieved in step S from the retail price retrieved in step S.

A discount is determined in step S based on the margins determined in step S and step S. In one embodiment the discount is determined in step S by adding the two determined margins to determine a total retail profit margin of the first product and the second product. The total is multiplied by a discount factor such as 10 to determine the discount. The discount factor may vary depending upon the identities of the first product and the second product. For example a smaller discount amount may be used if the first product and the second product are popular products than if the products are relatively unpopular.

For the sake of clarity the following is a description of the foregoing example of step S using data illustrated in the above described databases. Assuming that the first product is identified by the product identifier P 10596 and the second product is identified by the product identifier P 96832 the retail profit margins determined in step S and step S are 300 and 120 respectively. Adding these two margins results in a total retail profit margin of 420 and multiplying this total retail profit margin by a 10 discount factor results in a discount of 42.

A price adjustment is determined in step S. In one embodiment the price adjustment is equal to the discount determined in step S. That is according to the foregoing example the price adjustment for the second product would be equal to 42 off . Of course the price adjustment may be determined as a percentage discount value or a sale price based on the determined discount. Referring again to the previous example thusly determined price adjustments would be 42 200 21 off and 158 respectively.

A price adjustment for a second product may be determined based solely on the retail profit margin of the second product. In such an embodiment the retail profit margin is determined and a discount is determined by multiplying the determined margin by a percentage discount. Again the price adjustment may be equal to the discount a percentage discount value or a sale price as described above.

The process steps begin at step S in which a first product is selected. Selection of a first product in step S may proceed using any of the scenarios described above with respect to reception of an indication of interest in a first product in step S of the process steps . is a view of the display of the customer device for use in describing one embodiment of step S. Shown in is a web page transmitted from the retailer controller to the customer device and displayed on the display of the customer device in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The web page was transmitted to the customer device in response to operation of the web browser to access a website maintained by a web server of the retailer controller and to request the web page therefrom.

Web page includes a list of hyperlinks corresponding to various products. In particular the hyperlink corresponds to a product described as D Brand 400 MHz Pentium III computer system . According to the present example a customer operates the customer device so as to select the hyperlink in step S.

In step S a retail price of the first product selected in step S is received. illustrates one embodiment of step S. Shown in is a web page transmitted to the customer device in response to selection of the hyperlink . The web page includes a product description and a product identifier each of which may be retrieved from a corresponding record in the product database as well a product view and a detailed product description . As described with respect to step S the web page also includes a retail price of the selected product. Again the retail price may be retrieved from the retail price field of the product database .

In step S a desire to purchase the first product is indicated. One method for indicating such a desire in S includes selection of the add to cart icon of the web page . As described above selection of the first product may be considered in some embodiments as an indication of a desire to purchase the first product.

A second product is selected in step S. For example returning to the hyperlink corresponding to a product described as L Brand inkjet printer may be selected as a second product in step S. Next in step S a price adjustment for the second product is received based on the indication of the desire to purchase the first product. A web page is shown in for illustrating step S. As shown therein the web page as displayed on the display includes a product description a product identifier and a retail price identical to respectively a product description a product identifier and a retail price respectively associated with the selected product. Also received with the web page is a price adjustment . In the illustrated embodiment the received price adjustment is a sale price.

Also shown in is an indication that the second product will be sold for a price in accordance with the price adjustment if the first product is purchased. As described above such a feature assures a retailer that the sale price of the second product will not be affected by the price adjustment unless the first product is purchased and the retail profit margin of the first product is received . As a result the retailer may be more willing to offer a significant price adjustment for the second product. In other embodiments a second product is sold according to a price adjustment simply by virtue of receipt by the retailer controller of an indication from a customer of interest in the first product or simply by virtue of receipt from a customer of an indication of an intent to purchase the first product. As described above these various embodiments provide different amounts of incentive for a retailer to offer a price adjustment and to determine the extent of an offered price adjustment.

Flow begins at step S in which a customer identifier is received. In one embodiment of step S a customer arrives at a POS terminal of a retail store with several desired products intending to pay for the products and thereafter to leave the retail store with the products. At the POS terminal the customer input output device displays a message to the customer instructing the customer to swipe her preferred customer card through a magnetic card reader provided with the device . The card reader reads a magnetic strip located on the card in order to receive the customer identifier in step S. Alternatively the customer may swipe a credit or debit card through the magnetic card reader which retrieves account information from the card and uses the account information in conjunction with the customer database to locate an associated customer identifier . The latter arrangement allows the customer to complete a purchase using only one card.

In another embodiment of step S the customer device transmits price adjustment information such as that shown in to the POS terminal through the customer input output device . The customer identifier is then retrieved therefrom.

Next in step S it is determined whether price adjustment information is associated with the received customer identifier. In one embodiment the transaction database is examined to determine whether it includes price adjustment information associated with a customer identifier identical to the received customer identifier. In this regard a transaction identifier may be received in step S and the transaction database may be examined in step S to determine whether it includes price adjustment information associated with a transaction identifier identical to the received transaction identifier.

If no associated price adjustment information is located flow continues to step S wherein a product identifier of each desired product is determined using the bar code scanner a retail price of each product is determined by locating a retail price associated with the product identifier the customer is charged for the associated retail prices a receipt is printed using the printer and the customer departs the retail store with the desired products.

If it is determined in step S that price adjustment information is associated with the received customer identifier the price adjustment information is retrieved in step S. Specifically records having an associated customer identifier identical to the customer identifier received in step S are copied from the transaction database to the storage device for fast access to the data therein. Step S and step S may be skipped over in a case that the price adjustment information shown in is transmitted directly from the customer device to the POS terminal .

Next in step S product identifiers of all desired products are received. In one embodiment the product identifiers are received by scanning a product bar code corresponding to each product which is located either on the product or on the product s packaging. Once the product identifiers are received it is determined in step S whether one of the received product identifiers is represented in the retrieved price adjustment information. More particularly it is determined whether a first one of the received product identifiers is a product identifier listed in one of the records retrieved in step S. If so it is determined in step S whether product identifiers listed in the retrieved price adjustment information as required product s were received in step S. Step S therefore is intended to confirm that the customer is purchasing those products that are required in order for the customer to obtain a sale price in accordance with a price adjustment. In this regard in a case that a product identifier is associated with more than one price adjustment and or sets of required product s either of the sets of required product s may be received in step S to result in a positive determination in step S.

A sale price corresponding to the received product identifier is determined in step S. For example a price adjustment is identified which is associated with the required product s deemed to have been received in step S. If the price adjustment is itself a sale price the sale price determined in step S is equal to the price adjustment . If on the other hand the price adjustment is a percentage discount value or a price discount value the sale price is determined in step S by applying the discount value to the associated retail price .

In a case that a product identifier is associated with more than one price adjustment and or sets of required product s step S presents several options. For example the product identifier P 55667 of the transaction database is associated with two price adjustments each of which is associated with a different required product . If each required product is being purchased the sale price determined in step S may be based on both associated price adjustments 4.50 off a retail price on a greater of the two price adjustments 4.00 off a retail price on a lesser of the two price adjustments 0.50 off a retail price or based on which of the two required products were scanned first in step S.

The determined sale price is added to the customer s bill in step S. It is then determined in step S if any product identifiers received in step S have not been analyzed. If so flow returns to step S to determine if a next one of the received product identifiers is represented in the retrieved price adjustment information.

Returning to step S if it is determined that the product identifier is not represented in the received information the retail price associated with the product identifier in the transaction database is determined and the retail price is added to the customer s bill in step S. Flow continues from step S to step S and proceeds as previously described.

If it is determined in step S that no received product identifiers remain to be analyzed flow continues to step S wherein the customer is charged the total billed amount. The amount may be charged to the customer using the payment identifier associated with the customer identifier received in step S or using other known means.

Although the process steps are described above with respect to a traditional checkout process within a retail store it should be understood that the process steps are also applicable to the sale of products in an online environment with or without variation.

The following are several examples of additional embodiments of the present invention. These examples do not constitute a definition of all possible embodiments and those skilled in the art will understand that the present invention is amenable to many other embodiments. Those skilled in the art will understand how to make any changes if necessary to the above described system to accommodate these and other embodiments and applications.

In one embodiment a customer is presented with several price adjustments for a first product each of the price adjustments associated with a respective different product. According to such an embodiment the customer may purchase the first product for a sale price in accordance with a price adjustment if the customer also purchases a different product associated with the particular price adjustment. For example transmitted to a customer may be a price adjustment of 200 for a stereo system and a price adjustment of 175 for the same stereo system. The 200 price adjustment may be associated with a cordless phone and the 175 price adjustment may be associated with a 25 inch color television. This information may be transmitted to the customer in response to an indication from the customer of an interest in the first product or without any customer input. Moreover different associated products and price adjustments may be determined using any of the methods described above.

In another embodiment a customer may purchase a second product for a sale price according to a price adjustment if the customer or any other customer associated with the customer in a buying group same household company club etc. purchases a first product required for the price adjustment.

The customer may not be required to purchase all required product s at a same time in order to receive an associated price adjustment. For example the customer may receive a price adjustment simply by committing to purchase the required product s at a later date.

In order to indicate an interest in a product to indicate an intent to purchase a product or to request a purchase of a product a customer may swipe an appropriate card bearing a magnetic strip through a card reading device located near the point of display of the product. A product identifier corresponding to the product and a customer identifier read from the magnetic strip are then associated in the storage device of the retailer controller . Accordingly a product identifier corresponding to each subsequently selected product is also associated with the customer identifier in the data storage device . In this regard each product may be assigned a separate card reading device designed to transmit to the retailer controller only a product identifier corresponding to a single associated product or the card reading device may have an additional input device which the customer uses to input a product identifier corresponding to a selected product or to input other information using which the product identifier may be determined.

As described above price adjustment information for a transaction such as that shown in may be stored in the customer device . In one embodiment the customer device may use the information to allow a customer to check out without interaction with the POS terminal . In this regard it is assumed that each product with which the customer attempts to check out is represented in the price adjustment information. Accordingly it may be determined whether required product s associated with a price adjustment are being purchased by reference to the listed product identifiers . A retailer may conduct random receipt audits at a retail store exit to ensure that the customer does not remove products other than those identified by the product identifiers .

In some embodiments a total billed amount for certain products can differ depending solely on an order in which the certain products are selected by a customer. In other embodiments price adjustments are determined so that a total amount billed does not depend upon an order of selection.

In an embodiment where a customer places products into a real or virtual shopping cart the customer may be presented with a sale price for each product in the shopping cart or a total sale price of all products in the shopping cart. A sale price of a product in the shopping cart is determined based on a price adjustment associated with the product if all products required for the price adjustment are also in the shopping cart. As a result removal of a product from the shopping cart causes a sale price of the product to be removed from a list of sale prices presented to the customer or deducted from a total sale price presented to the customer. However if the removed product is a required product associated with price adjustments for other products in the shopping cart the removal may also result in an increase in sale prices listed for the other products and or an increase in the total sale price.

In an example of the foregoing embodiment a customer places a computer system having a retail price of 1000.00 into his shopping cart. Next the customer indicates an interest in an inkjet printer by requesting information regarding the printer. In response the customer is informed that a retail price of the printer is 200.00 and that he will receive a 50 discount off the retail price if the printer is purchased along with all other products currently in the shopping cart. The customer then places the printer in the shopping cart and is presented with a total sale price of 1000.00 50 200.00 1100.00. The customer may also or otherwise be presented with a list of sale prices for products in the shopping cart the list including 1000.00 and 100.00. The customer then indicates an interest in a television and is informed that a retail price of 400.00 will be discounted to 350.00 if the television is purchased along with the printer. Once the television is added to the shopping cart the customer is presented with a total sale price of 1100.00 350.00 1450.00 and or a list including 1000.00 100.00 and 350.00. If the customer then removes the computer system from the shopping cart the customer is presented with a total sale price of 200.00 350.00 550.00 and or a list of sale prices including 200.00 and 350.00. Specifically removal of the computer system causes an increase in a sale price of the printer because the computer system is a required product associated with a price adjustment for the printer. On the other hand removal of the computer system does not cause an increase in a sale price of the television because the computer system is not a required product associated with a price adjustment for the television.

Although the present invention has been described with respect to particular embodiments those skilled in the art will note that various substitutions and modifications may be made to those embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

