---

title: Method and system for providing search services for a social media ecosystem
abstract: A method and system for providing social media ecosystem searching services. Cascading searching is used to locate a desired person in a social media ecosystem. Plural related micro-levels are created in cascading searching lists. The plural related micro-levels include one or more cross-connections between the plural cascading merged lists including cross-connections between the search categories, search subcategories or search keywords in the search categories and search subcategories. The cascading searching provides micro-level searching for a desired person in the social media ecosystem at a level not available with other searching techniques. The system includes voice search requests and automatic translation of search requests and communication requests once a desired person is located into plural different languages. The social media search ecosystem cascading searching services are provided on a cloud communications network for mobile and non-mobile devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348916&OS=09348916&RS=09348916
owner: Unittus, Inc.
number: 09348916
owner_city: Bradenton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130914
---
This U.S utility application is a Continuation In Part CIP of U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 14 011 164 filed on Aug. 27 2013 the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to selling goods and services over a computer network. More specifically it relates to a method and system for providing search services for social media ecosystem.

Each day over 10 000 000 related keyword searches are conducted for people trying to find people. If searches for related keywords include electronic white pages dating and business networking are counted the total would be over 40 000 000 which would make searching for people one of the most searched subject categories in the world online.

Today there are 2.3 billion Internet connected users around the world and 6 billion mobile device owners and are growing exponentially. Searching and Social Networking is effecting and influencing all users businesses and advertisers globally. Electronic commerce commonly known as e commerce is a type of industry where the buying and selling of products or services is conducted over electronic systems such as the Internet and other computer networks such as cloud networks.

Electronic commerce draws on technologies such as mobile commerce Internet marketing online transaction processing electronic data interchange and automated data collection systems. Modern electronic commerce typically uses the World Wide Web at least at one point in the transaction s life cycle although it may encompass a wider range of technologies such as e mail mobile devices social media etc.

 Social commerce is a subset of electronic commerce that involves using social media online media that supports social interaction and user contributions to assist in the online buying and selling of products and services. More succinctly social commerce is the use of social network s in the context of e commerce transactions.

Examples of social commerce include customer ratings and reviews user recommendations and referrals social shopping tools sharing the act of shopping online forums and communities social media optimization social applications and social advertising.

A social media ecosystem is a system form by an interaction of a community of social media users with their environment including the Internet and social media sites e.g. FACEBOOK TWITTER E HARMONY MATCH.COM SOCIAL LIVING GROUPON etc. . It is a system of interconnecting and interacting parts. A social media ecosystem centers on a consumer experience. Participants in the ecosystem are based on five different types of social behaviors Creators e.g. publish maintain upload electronic content Critics e.g. comment rate Collectors e.g. save share Joiners e.g. connect unite and Spectators e.g. read . While the platforms provide transmission of messages the spheres of influence now become the consumers who engage in conversations about products and services via the various social media platforms.

However there is not a top of mind or superior people search solution to search connect and communicate with a desired person instantly. Thus it is desirable to solve some of the problems associated with searching for people online in a social media ecosystem.

In accordance with preferred embodiments of the present invention some of the problems associated with social media ecosystems are overcome. A method and system for providing search services for a social media search ecosystem is presented.

Cascading searching is used to locate a desired person in a social media ecosystem. Plural related micro levels are created in cascading searching lists. The plural related micro levels include one or more cross connections between the plural cascading merged lists including cross connections between the search categories search subcategories or search keywords in the search categories and search subcategories. The cascading searching provides micro level searching for a desired person in the social media ecosystem at a level not available with other searching techniques. The system includes voice search requests and automatic translation of search requests and communication request once a desired person is located into plural different languages. The social media search ecosystem cascading searching services are provided on a cloud communications network for mobile and non mobile devices.

The foregoing and other features and advantages of preferred embodiments of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the following detailed description. The detailed description proceeds with references to the accompanying drawings.

The one or more target network devices include but are not limited to multimedia capable desktop and laptop computers tablet computers facsimile machines mobile phones non mobile phones smart phones Internet phones Internet appliances personal digital data assistants PDA two way pagers digital cameras portable game consoles Play Station Portable by Sony Game Boy by Sony Nintendo DSI etc. non portable game consoles Xbox by Microsoft Play Station by Sony Wii by Nintendo etc. cable television CATV satellite television SATV and Internet television set top boxes digital televisions including high definition television HDTV three dimensional 3DTV televisions and other types of network devices.

The one or more smart network devices include smart phones such as the iPhone by Apple Inc. Blackberry Storm and other Blackberry models by Research In Motion Inc. RIM Droid by Motorola Inc. HTC Inc. other types of smart phones etc. However the present invention is not limited to such smart phone devices and more fewer or other devices can be used to practice the invention.

A smart phone is a mobile phone that offers more advanced computing ability and connectivity than a contemporary basic feature phone. Smart phones and feature phones may be thought of as handheld computers integrated with a mobile telephone but while most feature phones are able to run applications based on platforms such as Java ME a smart phone usually allows the user to install and run more advanced applications. Smart phones and or tablet computers run complete operating system software providing a platform for application developers.

The operating systems include the iPhone OS Android Windows etc. iPhone OS is a proprietary operating system for the Apple iPhone. Andriod is an open source operating system platform backed by Google along with major hardware and software developers such as Intel HTC ARM Motorola and Samsung etc. that form the Open Handset Alliance.

The one or more smart network devices include tablet computers such as the iPad by Apple Inc. the HP Tablet by Hewlett Packard Inc. the Playbook by RIM Inc. the Tablet by Sony Inc.

The target network devices are in communications with a cloud communications network via one or more wired and or wireless communications interfaces. The cloud communications network is also called a cloud computing network herein and the terms may be used interchangeably.

The plural target network devices request desired electronic content etc. stored on the cloud communications network .

The cloud communications network includes but is not limited to communications over a wire connected to the target network devices wireless communications and other types of communications using one or more communications and or networking protocols.

Plural server network devices only four of which are illustrated each with one or more processors and a non transitory computer readable medium include one or more associated databases . The plural network devices are in communications with the one or more target devices via the cloud communications network .

Plural server network devices only four of which are illustrated are physically located on one more public networks See private networks community networks and or hybrid networks comprising the cloud network .

One or more server network devices e.g. etc. securely stores a cloud content location map and other plural server network devices e.g. etc. store portions of desired electronic content as cloud storage objects as is described herein.

The plural server network devices include but are not limited to World Wide Web servers Internet servers search engine servers vertical search engine servers social networking site servers file servers other types of electronic information servers and other types of server network devices e.g. edge servers firewalls routers gateways etc. .

The plural server network devices also include but are not limited to network servers used for cloud computing providers etc.

The cloud communications network includes but is not limited to a wired and or wireless communications network comprising one or more portions of the Internet an intranet a Local Area Network LAN a wireless LAN WiLAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN and other types of wired and or wireless communications networks .

The cloud communications network includes one or more gateways routers bridges and or switches. A gateway connects computer networks using different network protocols and or operating at different transmission capacities. A router receives transmitted messages and forwards them to their correct destinations over the most efficient available route. A bridge is a device that connects networks using the same communications protocols so that information can be passed from one network device to another. A switch is a device that filters and forwards packets between network segments based on some pre determined sequence e.g. timing sequence number etc. .

An operating environment for the network devices of the exemplary social media ecosystem include a processing system with one or more high speed Central Processing Unit s CPU processors one or more memories and or other types of non transitory computer readable mediums. In accordance with the practices of persons skilled in the art of computer programming the present invention is described below with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations or instructions that are performed by the processing system unless indicated otherwise. Such acts and operations or instructions are referred to as being computer executed CPU executed or processor executed. 

It will be appreciated that acts and symbolically represented operations or instructions include the manipulation of electrical information by the CPU or processor. An electrical system represents data bits which cause a resulting transformation or reduction of the electrical information or biological information and the maintenance of data bits at memory locations in a memory system to thereby reconfigure or otherwise alter the CPU s or processor s operation as well as other processing of information. The memory locations where data bits are maintained are physical locations that have particular electrical magnetic optical or organic properties corresponding to the data bits.

The data bits may also be maintained on a non transitory computer readable medium including magnetic disks optical disks organic memory and any other volatile e.g. Random Access Memory RAM or non volatile e.g. Read Only Memory ROM flash memory etc. mass storage system readable by the CPU. The non transitory computer readable medium includes cooperating or interconnected computer readable medium which exist exclusively on the processing system or can be distributed among multiple interconnected processing systems that may be local or remote to the processing system.

In one embodiment of the invention the cloud application is a software application. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and the cloud application can be hardware firmware hardware and or any combination thereof. However the present invention is not limited these embodiments and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention

In another embodiment a portion of the cloud application is executing on the target network devices and another portion of the application is executing on the server network devices However the present invention is not limited these embodiments and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

The network devices are connected to the communication network with Network Interface Card NIC cards including device drivers in a link layer for the actual hardware connecting the network devices to the cloud communications network . For example the NIC device drivers may include a serial port device driver a digital subscriber line DSL device driver an Ethernet device driver a wireless device driver a wired device driver etc. The device drivers interface with the actual hardware being used to connect the network devices to the cloud communications network . The NIC cards have a medium access control MAC address that is unique to each NIC and unique across the whole cloud network . The Medium Access Control MAC protocol is used to provide a data link layer of an Ethernet LAN system and for other network systems.

Above the link layer is a network layer also called the Internet Layer for Internet Protocol IP suites . The network layer includes but is not limited to an IP layer .

IP is an addressing protocol designed to route traffic within a network or between networks. However more fewer or other protocols can also be used in the network layer and the present invention is not limited to IP . For more information on IP see IETF RFC 791 incorporated herein by reference.

Above network layer is a transport layer . The transport layer includes but is not limited to an optional Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP layer a Internet Control Message Protocol ICMP layer a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer and a User Datagram Protocol UDP layer . However more fewer or other protocols could also be used in the transport layer .

Optional IGMP layer hereinafter IGMP is responsible for multicasting. For more information on IGMP see RFC 1112 incorporated herein by reference. ICMP layer hereinafter ICMP is used for IP control. The main functions of ICMP include error reporting reachability testing e.g. pinging etc. route change notification performance subnet addressing and other maintenance. For more information on ICMP see RFC 792 incorporated herein by reference. Both IGMP and ICMP are not required in the protocol stack . ICMP can be used alone without optional IGMP layer .

TCP layer hereinafter TCP provides a connection oriented end to end reliable protocol designed to fit into a layered hierarchy of protocols which support multi network applications. TCP provides for reliable inter process communication between pairs of processes in network devices attached to distinct but interconnected networks. For more information on TCP see RFC 793 incorporated herein by reference.

UDP layer hereinafter UDP provides a connectionless mode of communications with datagrams in an interconnected set of computer networks. UDP provides a transaction oriented datagram protocol where delivery and duplicate packet protection are not guaranteed. For more information on UDP see RFC 768 incorporated herein by reference. Both TCP and UDP are not required in protocol stack . Either TCP or UDP can be used without the other.

Above transport layer is an application layer where application programs e.g. etc. to carry out desired functionality for a network device reside. For example the application programs for the client network devices may include a web browsers or other application programs cloud application program while application programs for the server network devices may include other application programs e.g. etc. .

However the protocol stack is not limited to the protocol layers illustrated and more fewer or other layers and protocols can also be used in protocol stack . In addition other protocols from the Internet Protocol suites e.g. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP File Transfer Protocol FTP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP DNS etc. and or other protocols from other protocol suites may also be used in protocol stack .

In one embodiment of the present invention the wireless interfaces on network devices include but are not limited to 3G and or 4G IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.15.4 ZigBee Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX ETSI High Performance Radio Metropolitan Area Network HIPERMAN or RF Home wireless interfaces. In another embodiment of the present invention the wireless sensor device may include an integral or separate Bluetooth and or infra data association IrDA module for wireless Bluetooth or wireless infrared communications. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other 802.11xx and other types of wireless interfaces can also be used.

802.11b is a short range wireless network standard. The IEEE 802.11b standard defines wireless interfaces that provide up to 11 Mbps wireless data transmission to and from wireless devices over short ranges. 802.11a is an extension of the 802.11b and can deliver speeds up to 54 Mbps. 802.11g deliver speeds on par with 802.11a. However other 802.11XX interfaces can also be used and the present invention is not limited to the 802.11 protocols defined. The IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and 802.11g standards are incorporated herein by reference.

Wi Fi is a type of 802.11xx interface whether 802.11b 802.11a dual band etc. Wi Fi devices include an RF interfaces such as 2.4 GHz for 802.11b or 802.11g and 5 GHz for 802.11a. More information on Wi Fi can be found at the domain name www.weca.net.

802.15.4 Zigbee is low data rate network standard used for mesh network devices such as sensors interactive toys smart badges remote controls and home automation. The 802.15.4 standard provides data rates of 250 kbps 40 kbps and 20 kbps. two addressing modes 16 bit short and 64 bit IEEE addressing support for critical latency devices such as joysticks Carrier Sense Multiple Access Collision Avoidance CSMA CA channel access automatic network establishment by a coordinator fully handshaked protocol for transfer reliability power management to ensure low power consumption for multi month to multi year battery usage and up to 16 channels in the 2.4 GHz Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM band Worldwide 10 channels in the 915 MHz US and one channel in the 868 MHz band Europe . The IEEE 802.15.4 2003 standard is incorporated herein by reference. More information on 802.15.4 and ZigBee can be found at the domain name www.ieee802.org and www.zigbee.org respectively.

WiMAX is an industry trade organization formed by leading communications component and equipment companies to promote and certify compatibility and interoperability of broadband wireless access equipment that conforms to the IEEE 802.16XX and ETSI HIPERMAN. HIPERMAN is the European standard for metropolitan area networks MAN .

The IEEE The 802.16a and 802.16g standards are wireless MAN technology standard that provides a wireless alternative to cable DSL and T1 E1 for last mile broadband access. It is also used as complimentary technology to connect IEEE 802.11XX hot spots to the Internet.

The IEEE 802.16a standard for 2 11 GHz is a wireless MAN technology that provides broadband wireless connectivity to fixed portable and nomadic devices. It provides up to 50 kilometers of service area range allows users to get broadband connectivity without needing direct line of sight with the base station and provides total data rates of up to 280 Mbps per base station which is enough bandwidth to simultaneously support hundreds of businesses with T1 E1 type connectivity and thousands of homes with DSL type connectivity with a single base station. The IEEE 802.16g provides up to 100 Mbps.

The IEEE 802.16e standard is an extension to the approved IEEE 802.16 16a 16g standard. The purpose of 802.16e is to add limited mobility to the current standard which is designed for fixed operation.

The ESTI HIPERMAN standard is an interoperable broadband fixed wireless access standard for systems operating at radio frequencies between 2 GHz and 11 GHz.

The IEEE 802.16a 802.16e and 802.16g standards are incorporated herein by reference. More information on WiMAX can be found at the domain name www.wimaxforum.org. WiMAX can be used to provide a WLP.

The ETSI HIPERMAN standards TR 101 031 TR 101 475 TR 101 493 1 through TR 101 493 3 TR 101 761 1 through TR 101 761 4 TR 101 762 TR 101 763 1 through TR 101 763 3 and TR 101 957 are incorporated herein by reference. More information on ETSI standards can be found at the domain name www.etsi.org. ETSI HIPERMAN can be used to provide a WLP.

In one embodiment the plural server network devices include a connection to plural network interface cards NICs in a backplane connected to a communications bus. The NIC cards provide gigabit second 1 10bits second communications speed of electronic information. This allows scaling out for fast electronic content retrieval. The NICs are connected to the plural server network devices and the cloud communications network . However the present invention is not limited to the NICs described and other types of NICs in other configurations and connections with and or without a buses can also be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment network devices and wired and wireless interfaces including the NICs include 4G components. 4G refers to the fourth generation of wireless communications standards and speeds of 100 megabits second to gigabits second or more. 4G includes peak speed requirements for 4G service at least 100 Mbit s for high mobility communication e.g. trains vehicles etc. and 1 Gbit s for low mobility communication e.g. pedestrians and stationary users etc. .

4G technologies are a successor to 3G and 2G standards. The nomenclature of the generations generally refers to a change in the fundamental nature of the service. The first was the move from analogue 1G to digital 2G transmission. This was followed by multi media support spread spectrum transmission and at least 200 kbits second 3G . The 4G NICs include IP packet switched NICs wired and wireless ultra broadband i.e. gigabit speed access NICs Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX NICs WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE and or multi carrier transmission NICs. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and 1G 2G and 3G and or any combination thereof with or with 4G NICs can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment of the invention the WiMAX interfaces includes WiMAX 4G Long Term Evolution LTE interfaces. The ITU announced in December 2010 that WiMAX and LTE are 4G technologies. One of the benefits of 4G LTE is the ability to take advantage of advanced topology networks including those on cloud communications networks such as optimized heterogeneous networks with a mix of macrocells with low power nodes such as picocells femtocells and new relay nodes. LTE further improves the capacity and coverage and helps ensures user fairness. 4G LTE also introduces multicarrier technologies for ultra wide bandwidth use up to 100 MHz of spectrum supporting very high data rates.

In one embodiment of the invention the wireless interfaces also include wireless personal area network WPAN interfaces. As is known in the art a WPAN is a personal area network for interconnecting devices centered around an individual person s devices in which the connections are wireless. A WPAN interconnects all the ordinary computing and communicating devices that a person has on their desk e.g. computer etc. or carry with them e.g. PDA mobile phone smart phone table computer two way pager etc. 

A key concept in WPAN technology is known as plugging in. In the ideal scenario when any two WPAN equipped devices come into close proximity within several meters and or feet of each other or within a few miles and or kilometers of a central server not illustrated they can communicate via wireless communications as if connected by a cable. WPAN devices can also lock out other devices selectively preventing needless interference or unauthorized access to secure information. Zigbee is one wireless protocol used on WPAN networks such as cloud communications network .

VoIP is a set of facilities for managing the delivery of voice information using IP packets. In general VoIP is used to send voice information in digital form in discrete data packets i.e. IP packets over data networks rather than using traditional circuit switched protocols used on the PSTN. VoIP is used on both wireless and wired data networks.

VoIP typically comprises several applications e.g. Session Initiation Protocol SIP Service Location Protocol SLP H.323 H.324 Domain Name System DNS Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA codecs G.7xx etc. that convert a voice signal into a stream of packets e.g. IP packets on a packet network and back again. VoIP allows voice signals to travel over a stream of data packets over a communications network.

Short Message Service SMS is a text messaging service component of phone web or mobile communication systems using standardized communications protocols that allow the exchange of short text messages of up to 160 characters or more.

Instant messaging IM is a type of messaging which offers real time text transmission over a local area network LAN .

The one or more target network devices and one or more server network devices may communicate with each other and other network devices with near field communications NFC and or machine to machine M2M communications.

 Near field communication NFC is a set of standards for smartphones and similar devices to establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bringing them into close proximity usually no more than a few centimeters. Present and anticipated applications include contactless transactions data exchange and simplified setup of more complex communications such as Wi Fi. Communication is also possible between an NFC device and an unpowered NFC chip called a tag including radio frequency identifier RFID tags.

NFC standards cover communications protocols and data exchange formats and are based on existing radio frequency identification RFID standards including ISO IEC 14443 and FeliCa. These standards include ISO IEC 1809 and those defined by the NFC Forum all of which are incorporated by reference.

 Machine to machine M2M refers to technologies that allow both wireless and wired systems to communicate with other devices of the same ability. M2M uses a device to capture an event such as option purchase etc. which is relayed through a network wireless wired cloud etc. to an application software program that translates the captured event into meaningful information. Such communication was originally accomplished by having a remote network of machines relay information back to a central hub for analysis which would then be rerouted into a system like a personal computer.

However modern M2M communication has expanded beyond a one to one connection and changed into a system of networks that transmits data many to one and many to many to plural different types of devices and appliances. The expansion of IP networks across the world has made it far easier for M2M communication to take place and has lessened the amount of power and time necessary for information to be communicated between machines.

However the present invention is not limited to such wireless interfaces and wireless networks and more fewer and or other wireless interfaces can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment of the present invention the wired interfaces include wired interfaces and corresponding networking protocols for wired connections to the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and or a cable television network CATV and or satellite television networks SATV and or three dimensional television 3DTV including HDTV that connect the network devices via one or more twisted pairs of copper wires digital subscriber lines e.g. DSL ADSL VDSL etc. coaxial cable fiber optic cable other connection media or other connection interfaces. The PSTN is any public switched telephone network provided by AT T GTE Sprint MCI SBC Verizon and others. The CATV is any cable television network provided by the Comcast Time Warner etc. However the present invention is not limited to such wired interfaces and more fewer and or other wired interfaces can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud social media ecosystem searching services from television services over the cloud communications network . The television services include digital television services including but not limited to cable television satellite television high definition television three dimensional televisions and other types of network devices.

However the present invention is not limited to such television services and more fewer and or other television services can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud social media ecosystem search services from Internet television services over the cloud communications network . The television services include Internet television Web TV and or Internet Protocol Television IPtv and or other broadcast television services.

 Internet television allows users to choose a program or the television show they want to watch from an archive of programs or from a channel directory. The two forms of viewing Internet television are streaming content directly to a media player or simply downloading a program to a viewer s set top box game console computer or other mesh network device.

 Web TV delivers digital content via non mesh broadband and mobile networks. The digital content is streamed to a viewer s set top box game console computer or other mesh network device.

 Internet Protocol television IPtv is a system through which Internet television services are delivered using the architecture and networking methods of the Internet Protocol Suite over a packet switched network infrastructure e.g. the Internet and broadband Internet access networks instead of being delivered through traditional radio frequency broadcast satellite signal and cable television formats.

However the present invention is not limited to such Internet Television services and more fewer and or other Internet Television services can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud social media ecosystem search services from general search engine services. A search engine is designed to search for information on a cloud communications network such as the Internet including World Wide Web servers HTTP FTP servers etc. The search results are generally presented in a list of electronic results. The information may consist of web pages images electronic information multimedia information and other types of files. Some search engines also mine data available in databases or open directories. Unlike web directories which are maintained by human editors search engines typically operate algorithmically and or are a mixture of algorithmic and human input.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud Social media ecosystem search services from general search engine services. In another embodiment the cloud applications provide general search engine services by interacting with one or more other public search engines e.g. GOOGLE BING YAHOO etc. and or private search engine services.

In another embodiment the cloud applications provide social media ecosystem search services from specialized search engine services such as vertical search engine services by interacting with one or more other public vertical search engines e.g. GALAXY.COM etc. and or private search engine services

However the present invention is not limited to such general and or vertical search engine services and more fewer and or other general search engine services can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud social media ecosystem search services from one more social networking services including to from one or more social networking web sites e.g. FACEBOOK YOUTUBE TWITTER MY SPACE MATCH.COM E HARMONY GROUP ON SOCIAL LIVING PINREST etc. . The social networking web sites also include but are not limited to social couponing sites dating web sites blogs RSS feeds and other types of information web sites in which messages can be left or posted for a variety of social activities.

However the present invention is not limited to the social networking services described and other public and private social networking services can also be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud social media ecosystem search services from one more music downloading services e.g. iTunes Rhapsody etc. at one or more music downloading sites.

However the present invention is not limited to the music downloading services described and other public and private social networking services can also be used to practice the invention.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention include network devices and wired and wireless interfaces that are compliant with all or part of standards proposed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE International Telecommunications Union Telecommunication Standardization Sector ITU European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI Internet Engineering Task Force IETF U.S. National Institute of Security Technology NIST American National Standard Institute ANSI Wireless Application Protocol WAP Forum Bluetooth Forum or the ADSL Forum.

Network devices with wired and or wireless interfaces of the social media ecosystem include one or more of the security and encryptions techniques discussed herein for secure communications on the cloud communications network .

Application programs include security and or encryption application programs integral to and or separate from the cloud applications Security and or encryption programs may also exist in hardware components on the network devices described herein and or exist in a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

Wireless Encryption Protocol WEP also called Wired Equivalent Privacy is a security protocol for WiLANs defined in the IEEE 802.11b standard. WEP is cryptographic privacy algorithm based on the Rivest Cipher 4 RC4 encryption engine used to provide confidentiality for 802.11b wireless data.

RC4 is cipher designed by RSA Data Security Inc. of Bedford Mass. which can accept encryption keys of arbitrary length and is essentially a pseudo random number generator with an output of the generator being XORed with a data stream to produce encrypted data.

One problem with WEP is that it is used at the two lowest layers of the OSI model the physical layer and the data link layer therefore it does not offer end to end security. One another problem with WEP is that its encryption keys are static rather than dynamic. To update WEP encryption keys an individual has to manually update a WEP key. WEP also typically uses 40 bit static keys for encryption and thus provides weak encryption making a WEP device a target of hackers.

The IEEE 802.11 Working Group is working on a security upgrade for the 802.11 standard called 802.11i. This supplemental draft standard is intended to improve WiLAN security. It describes the encrypted transmission of data between systems 802.11X WiLANs. It also defines new encryption key protocols including the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol TKIP . The IEEE 802.11i draft standard version 4 completed Jun. 6 2003 is incorporated herein by reference.

The 802.11i is based on 802.1x port based authentication for user and device authentication. The 802.11i standard includes two main developments Wi Fi Protected Access WPA and Robust Security Network RSN .

WPA uses the same RC4 underlying encryption algorithm as WEP. However WPA uses TKIP to improve security of keys used with WEP. WPA keys are derived and rotated more often than WEP keys and thus provide additional security. WPA also adds a message integrity check function to prevent packet forgeries.

RSN uses dynamic negotiation of authentication and selectable encryption algorithms between wireless access points and wireless devices. The authentication schemes proposed in the draft standard include Extensible Authentication Protocol EAP . One proposed encryption algorithm is an Advanced Encryption Standard AES encryption algorithm.

Dynamic negotiation of authentication and encryption algorithms lets RSN evolve with the state of the art in security adding algorithms to address new threats and continuing to provide the security necessary to protect information that WiLANs carry.

The NIST developed a new encryption standard the Advanced Encryption Standard AES to keep government information secure. AES is intended to be a stronger more efficient successor to Triple Data Encryption Standard 3DES . More information on NIST AES can be found at the domain name www.nist.gov aes. 

DES is a popular symmetric key encryption method developed in 1975 and standardized by ANSI in 1981 as ANSI X.3.92 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. As is known in the art 3DES is the encrypt decrypt encrypt EDE mode of the DES cipher algorithm. 3DES is defined in the ANSI standard ANSI X9.52 1998 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. DES modes of operation are used in conjunction with the NIST Federal Information Processing Standard FIPS for data encryption FIPS 46 3 October 1999 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The NIST approved a FIPS for the AES FIPS 197. This standard specified Rijndael encryption as a FIPS approved symmetric encryption algorithm that may be used by U.S. Government organizations and others to protect sensitive information. The NIST FIPS 197 standard AES FIPS PUB 197 November 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.

The NIST approved a FIPS for U.S. Federal Government requirements for information technology products for sensitive but unclassified SBU communications. The NIST FIPS Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules FIPS PUB 140 2 May 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.

RSA is a public key encryption system which can be used both for encrypting messages and making digital signatures. The letters RSA stand for the names of the inventors Rivest Shamir and Adleman. For more information on RSA see U.S. Pat. No. 4 405 829 now expired incorporated herein by reference.

 Hashing is the transformation of a string of characters into a usually shorter fixed length value or key that represents the original string. Hashing is used to index and retrieve items in a database because it is faster to find the item using the shorter hashed key than to find it using the original value. It is also used in many encryption algorithms.

Secure Hash Algorithm SHA is used for computing a secure condensed representation of a data message or a data file. When a message of any length 

Message Digest 5 MD 5 takes as input a message of arbitrary length and produces as output a 128 bit message digest of the input. The MD5 algorithm is intended for digital signature applications where a large file must be compressed in a secure manner before being encrypted with a private secret key under a public key cryptosystem such as RSA. The IETF RFC 1321 entitled The MD5 Message Digest Algorithm is incorporated here by reference.

Providing a way to check the integrity of information transmitted over or stored in an unreliable medium such as a wireless network is a prime necessity in the world of open computing and communications. Mechanisms that provide such integrity check based on a secret key are called message authentication codes MAC . Typically message authentication codes are used between two parties that share a secret key in order to validate information transmitted between these parties.

Keyed Hashing for Message Authentication Codes HMAC is a mechanism for message authentication using cryptographic hash functions. HMAC is used with any iterative cryptographic hash function e.g. MD5 SHA 1 SHA 512 etc. in combination with a secret shared key. The cryptographic strength of HMAC depends on the properties of the underlying hash function. The IETF RFC 2101 entitled HMAC Keyed Hashing for Message Authentication is incorporated here by reference.

An Electronic Code Book ECB is a mode of operation for a block cipher with the characteristic that each possible block of plaintext has a defined corresponding cipher text value and vice versa. In other words the same plaintext value will always result in the same cipher text value. Electronic Code Book is used when a volume of plaintext is separated into several blocks of data each of which is then encrypted independently of other blocks. The Electronic Code Book has the ability to support a separate encryption key for each block type.

Diffie and Hellman DH describe several different group methods for two parties to agree upon a shared secret in such a way that the secret will be unavailable to eavesdroppers. This secret is then converted into various types of cryptographic keys. A large number of the variants of the DH method exist including ANSI X9.42. The IETF RFC 2631 entitled Diffie Hellman Key Agreement Method is incorporated here by reference.

The HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP Secure HTTPs is a standard for encrypted communications on the World Wide Web. HTTPs is actually just HTTP over a Secure Sockets Layer SSL . For more information on HTTP see IETF RFC 2616 incorporated herein by reference.

The SSL protocol is a protocol layer which may be placed between a reliable connection oriented network layer protocol e.g. TCP IP and the application protocol layer e.g. HTTP . SSL provides for secure communication between a source and destination by allowing mutual authentication the use of digital signatures for integrity and encryption for privacy.

The SSL protocol is designed to support a range of choices for specific security methods used for cryptography message digests and digital signatures. The security method are negotiated between the source and destination at the start of establishing a protocol session. The SSL 2.0 protocol specification by Kipp E. B. Hickman 1995 is incorporated herein by reference. More information on SSL is available at the domain name See netscape.com eng security SSL 2.html. 

Transport Layer Security TLS provides communications privacy over the Internet. The protocol allows client server applications to communicate over a transport layer e.g. TCP in a way that is designed to prevent eavesdropping tampering or message forgery. For more information on TLS see IETF RFC 2246 incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the security functionality includes Cisco Compatible EXtensions CCX . CCX includes security specifications for makers of 802.11xx wireless LAN chips for ensuring compliance with Cisco s proprietary wireless security LAN protocols. As is known in the art Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. is supplier of networking hardware and software including router and security products.

However the present invention is not limited to such security and encryption methods described herein and more fewer and or other types of security and encryption methods can be used to practice the invention. The security and encryption methods described herein can also be used in various combinations and or in different layers of the protocol stack with each other.

In one embodiment the cloud computing network includes a cloud communications network comprising plural different cloud component networks . Cloud computing is a model for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. public and private networks servers storage applications and services that are shared rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.

This exemplary cloud computing model for electronic information retrieval promotes availability for shared resources and comprises 1 cloud computing essential characteristics 2 cloud computing service models and 3 cloud computing deployment models. However the present invention is not limited to this cloud computing model and other cloud computing models can also be used to practice the invention.

Exemplary cloud computing essential characteristics appear in Table 1. However the present invention is not limited to these essential characteristics and more fewer or other characteristics can also be used to practice the invention.

Exemplary cloud computing service models illustrated in appear in Table 2. However the present invention is not limited to these service models and more fewer or other service models can also be used to practice the invention.

Exemplary cloud computing deployment models appear in Table 3. However the present invention is not limited to these deployment models and more fewer or other deployment models can also be used to practice the invention.

Cloud software for electronic content retrieval takes full advantage of the cloud paradigm by being service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability for social media ecosystem searching services. However cloud software services can include various states.

Cloud storage of social media ecosystem searching on a cloud computing network includes agility scalability elasticity and multi tenancy. Although a storage foundation may be comprised of block storage or file storage such as that exists on conventional networks cloud storage is typically exposed to requesters of desired electronic content as cloud objects.

In one exemplary embodiment the cloud application offers cloud services for social media ecosystem search services. The application offers the cloud computing Infrastructure as a Service IaaS including a cloud software infrastructure service the cloud Platform as a Service PaaS including a cloud software platform service and or offers Specific cloud software services as a Service SaaS including a specific cloud software service for social media ecosystem search services. The IaaS PaaS and SaaS include one or more of cloud services comprising networking storage server network device virtualization operating system middleware run time data and or application services or plural combinations thereof on the cloud communications network .

The cloud storage object includes an envelope portion with a header portion and a body portion . However the present invention is not limited to such a cloud storage object and other cloud storage objects and other cloud storage objects with more fewer or other portions can also be used to practice the invention.

The envelope portion uses unique namespace Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs and or Uniform Resource Names URNs and or Uniform Resource Locators URLs unique across the cloud communications network to uniquely specify location and version information and encoding rules used by the cloud storage object across the whole cloud communications network . For more information see IETF RFC 3305 Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs URLs and Uniform Resource Names URNs the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

The envelope portion of the cloud storage object is followed by a header portion . The header portion includes extended information about the cloud storage objects such as authorization and or transaction information etc.

The body portion includes methods i.e. a sequence of instructions etc. for using embedded application specific data in data elements . The body portion typically includes only one portion of plural portions of application specific data and independent data so the cloud storage object can provide distributed redundant fault tolerant security and privacy features described herein.

Cloud storage objects have proven experimentally to be a highly scalable available and reliable layer of abstraction that also minimizes the limitations of common file systems. Cloud storage objects also provide low latency and low storage and transmission costs.

Cloud storage objects are comprised of many distributed resources but function as a single storage object are highly fault tolerant through redundancy and provide distribution of desired electronic content across public communication networks and one or more private networks community networks and hybrid networks of the cloud communications network . Cloud storage objects are also highly durable because of creation of copies of portions of desired electronic content across such networks of the cloud communications network . Cloud storage objects includes one or more portions of desired electronic content and can be stored on any of the networks of the cloud communications network . Cloud storage objects are transparent to a requester of desired electronic content and are managed by cloud applications .

In one embodiment cloud storage objects are configurable arbitrary objects with a size up to hundreds of terabytes each accompanied by with a few kilobytes of metadata. Cloud objects are organized into and identified by a unique identifier unique across the whole cloud communications network . However the present invention is not limited to the cloud storage objects described and more fewer and other types of cloud storage objects can be used to practice the invention.

Cloud storage objects present a single unified namespace or object space and manages desired electronic content by user or administrator defined policies storage and retrieval policies. Cloud storage objects includes Representational state transfer REST Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP and or Application Programming Interface API objects and or other types of cloud storage objects. However the present invention is not limited to the cloud storage objects described and more fewer and other types of cloud storage objects can be used to practice the invention.

REST is a protocol specification that characterizes and constrains macro interactions storage objects of the four components of a cloud communications network namely origin servers gateways proxies and clients without imposing limitations on the individual participants.

SOAP is a protocol specification for exchanging structured information in the implementation of cloud services with storage objects. SOAP has at least three major characteristics 1 Extensibility including security encryption routing etc. 2 Neutrality SOAP can be used over any transport protocol such as HTTP SMTP or even TCP etc. and 3 Independence SOAP allows for almost any programming model to be used etc. 

LDAP is a software protocol for enabling storage and retrieval of electronic content and other resources such as files and devices on the cloud communications network . LDAP is a lightweight version of Directory Access Protocol DAP which is part of X.500 a standard for directory services in a network. LDAP may be used with X.509 security and other security methods for secure storage and retrieval. X.509 is public key digital certificate standard developed as part of the X.500 directory specification. X.509 is used for secure management and distribution of digitally signed certificates across networks.

An API is a particular set of rules and specifications that software programs can follow to communicate with each other. It serves as an interface between different software programs and facilitates their interaction.

An electronic search engine ecosystem includes one or more content providers e.g. web site providers etc. one or more public and or private search engines e.g. GOOGLE BING YAHOO etc. and or one or more users e.g. searchers etc. However the present invention is not limited the components describe and more fewer and or other components can be used to practice the invention as a search engine ecosystem.

The one more public and or private search engines include electronic information gatherers a search query parser a search query gatherer a search query ranker a search query formatter 

A search engine is a software system that is designed to search for information on the World Wide Web. The search results are generally presented and referred to as Search Engine Results Pages SERPs . The information includes web pages images information and other types of files. Some search engines also mine data available in databases or open directories. Unlike web directories which are maintained only by human editors search engines also maintain real time information by running different types of search algorithms on web crawlers.

Web search engines function by storing information about many web pages which they retrieve from the markup language e.g. HTML XML etc. the web pages are written in. These pages are retrieved by an automated program called a spider web crawler web bot that follows every link on the site. The contents of each page are then analyzed to determine how it should be indexed for example words can be extracted from the titles page content headings or special fields called meta tags . Data about web pages are stored in an index database for use in later queries. A query from a user can be a single word. The index helps find information relating to the query as quickly as possible.

Some search engines such as GOOGLE store all or part of the source page referred to as a cache as well as information about the web pages whereas other search engines store every word of every page they find. This cached page holds the actual search text since it is the one that was actually indexed so it can be very useful when the content of the current page has been updated and the search terms are no longer in it.

When a user enters a query into a search engine using one or more keywords the search engine examines its index and provides a listing of best matching web pages according to its criteria usually with a short summary containing the document s title and sometimes parts of the text. The index is built from the information stored with the data and the method by which the information is indexed.

Most search engines support the use of the Boolean operators AND OR and NOT to further specify the search query. Boolean operators are for literal searches that allow the user to refine and extend the terms of the search. The engine looks for the words or phrases exactly as entered. Some search engines provide an advanced feature called proximity search which allows users to define the distance between keywords. There is also concept based searching where the research involves using statistical analysis on pages containing the words or phrases you search for. As well natural language queries allow the user to type a question in the same form one would ask it to a human.

The usefulness of a search engine depends on the relevance of the search result set it gives back. While there may be millions of web pages that include a particular word or phrase some pages may be more relevant popular or authoritative than others. Most search engines employ methods to rank the results to provide the best results first. How a search engine decides which pages are the best matches and what order the results should be shown in varies widely from one engine to another.

 Search engine optimization SEO is the process of affecting the visibility of a website or a web page in a search engine s natural or un paid organic search results. In general the earlier or higher ranked on the search results page and more frequently a site appears in the search results list the more visitors it will receive from the search engine s users.

An ecosystem with respect to a communications network is a community of participates e.g. web page providers indexers e.g. search engines etc. and searchers in conjunction with the technology components of their environment e.g. servers gateways routers switches wired interfaces wireless interfaces target network devices e.g. smart phones tablets etc. etc. interacting as a system. The ecosystem components are regarded as linked together through communications and data flows. Ecosystems are controlled by both internal and external factors.

A digital social media ecosystem is a distributed adaptive open socio technical system with properties of self organization scalability and sustainability inspired from natural ecosystems. Digital ecosystem models are informed by knowledge of natural ecosystems especially for aspects related to competition and collaboration among diverse entities.

One framework for digital ecosystems includes three distinct levels. Level 1 of the framework describes what drives individuals to carry out actions in online communities such as posting messages and adding electronic content. Level 2 looks at the cognitions participants use to determine whether or not to take such actions. Level 3 looks at the methods by which participates go about carrying out the action in the digital ecosystem environment.

A social search ecosystem typically operates within three perspectives content providers indexers and searchers. That is each member of the search ecosystem has a set of objectives and priorities that determine criteria when participating in the ecosystem. Participates will only participate in a search ecosystem if there is a tangible benefit i.e. a payoff or return on investment ROI .

Any member of the search ecosystem may reorganize e.g. optimize etc. a search resource according to his own perspective. Searchers do this by changing the way they search. Indexers e.g. search engines etc. do this by excluding or including content changing indexing structures adjusting ranks etc. . Content providers do this by changing content.

Social media ecosystems facilitate and automate vast interactions connections and networks of people by enabling collaboration at any time. This new ecosystem almost completely eliminates the need for travel and direct personal interactions. Within this new ecosystem there are individual influencer ecosystems with their own dynamics interrelationships characteristics and influence models.

Social media ecosystems include a new business to person B2P paradigm. Mohan Sawhney author of The Global Brain reinforces this in his book social customers are driving innovation they are empowered and collaborative they are the drivers and initiators of innovation and are increasingly viewed as a strategic asset to companies. Today s customer is looking for a personalized experience and relationship demanding solutions rather than products in what he calls the global Bazaar.

As social media ecosystem is also a place to present social needs in social career or leisure activities for the benefit of oneself and others individuals and businesses that feel that can satisfy that need per search and review of a public profile.

There are a number of definitions of Social Indicators SI both from self evaluation to physical activity data capture to expression of others feedback or recommendations. SIs are forms of evidence that help assessment of present position and future directions. An SI is also a direct and valid statistical measure which monitors levels and changes over time in a fundamental social concern. A social concern is an identifiable and definable aspiration or concern of fundamental and direct importance to human well being. Indicators may be material such as numbers related to economic growth and or immaterial such as values or goals. An SI includes statistics which are intended to provide a basis for making concise comprehensive and balanced judgments about the conditions of social connections.

The kind of indicators chosen for SI empirical measurement depends on the purpose of the measure. While objective social indicators are statistics which represent social facts independent of personal evaluations subjective social indicators are measures of individual perceptions and evaluations of social conditions.

 Objective social indicators represent social facts independently of personal evaluations. Subjective social indicators are based on individual perception and evaluation of social conditions. Generally SI perform one or more of three functions 1 providing a basis for information for decision making 2 monitoring and evaluating policies and or 3 searching for a common goal and deciding how to reach it.

A social media index and or a social inclusion index is a framework for measuring multiple dimensions of social connections. It measures social connections with public figures in politics sports entertainment etc. and with private figures such as friends relatives real and virtual acquaintances. In one embodiment it includes both objective and subjective social indicators. In another embodiment it includes only objective social indicators. In another embodiment it includes only subjective social indicators. However the present invention is not limited to the social indices described and more fewer and other types of social indices can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment of the invention an exemplary social media index includes a measure of a person s connections to friends. Table 4 illustrates an exemplary four dimensional 4D or four deep friend social media index. This 4D social media index is exemplary only and other types and more fewer or other dimensions can be used for the social media index.

In one exemplary embodiment of the social media index the first set of connections is a most important set of connections and is assigned a largest numeric percentage. The second set of connections is second most important and is assigned a second numeric percentage. The third set of connections is third most important and is assigned a third numeric percentage. The fourth set of connections is least important and is assigned a smallest numeric percentage. However the present invention is not to a social media index described and more fewer and other types of set of connections can be used to practice the invention.

In one exemplary embodiment of the invention an exemplary social media index includes a four deep measure of social career and leisure categories. Such an embodiment is illustrated in . illustrates four categories or spheres of influence. As an example for the social category sphere 1 or the closet sphere to the center illustrates people who you call in emergency and or are highly influential and supportive in daily life 2 includes a second sphere of people whom you have contact with at least monthly for meaningful experience 3 includes a third sphere of people know on a first name basis no set pattern of interaction with but put would gladly accept your contact or phone call or communication 4 includes a fourth sphere of people you have a direct connection with but do not fall into the above definition or pattern of contact of influential meaning in your life. However the present invention is not to the social indices described and more fewer and other types of social indices can be used to practice the invention

Table 5 illustrates an exemplary four dimensional 4D and or friend social media index . This 4D social media index is exemplary only and other types and more fewer or other percentages can be used for the social media index .

A simple social media index value is calculated by Equation 1 . However the present invention is not to a social media index described and more fewer and other types of set of connections can be used to practice the invention. social media index value number of connections in the first set of connections 0.60 number of connections in the second set of connections 0.25 number of connections in the third set of connections 0.10 number of connections in the fourth set of connections 0.05 1 

For example if person A had 44 people in her first set of connections 10 people in her second set of connections 99 people in her third set of connections and 1 302 people in her fourth set of connections using Equation 1 her exemplary social media index value would be 44 0.60 10 0.25 99 0.10 1 032 0.05 90.4.

For example if person B had 1 032 people in her first set of connections 10 people in her second set of connections 99 people in her third set of connections and 5 001 people in her fourth set of connections using Equation 1 her exemplary social media index value would be 1 032 0.60 10 0.25 99 0.10 5001 0.05 972.05.

In one embodiment the first set of connections includes only other people that are well known and or famous in politics entertainment sports etc. that would recognize the person by name and consider them a friend if asked. However the present invention is not to a social media index described and more fewer and other types of set of connections can be used to practice the invention. In such an embodiment first cloud application dynamically maintains a list of well known and or famous people.

For example in such an embodiment the first set of connections for a person may include President Obama because the person took a class from Professor Obama when he was law school professor at the University of Chicago include Tom Brady Quarterback of the New England Patriots because he was a classmate at the University of Michigan and include Jennifer Aniston the actress because she was the next store neighbor of his sister etc.

In another embodiment the first set of connections includes only other people that would recognize the person by name and consider them a friend if asked. Such people would also have some type of contact information for the person include an e mail address a phone number etc.

However the present invention is not to a social media index described and more fewer and other types of set of connections can be used to obtain a social media index value to practice the invention.

 Social commerce is a subset of electronic commerce that involves using social media online media that supports social interaction and user contributions to assist in creating social connection as well as the online buying and selling of products and services.

A social commerce connection is the use of social network s for e commerce transactions. Social commerce include online collaborative tools such as shared pick lists viewing advertising user ratings and other user generated content sharing of online goods and services information and advice.

Examples of social commerce include but are not limited to customer ratings and reviews user recommendations and referrals social shopping tools e.g. sharing the act of shopping online etc. forums and communities social media optimization social applications and social advertising.

One way to categorize social commerce is Offsite and Onsite social commerce. Offsite social commerce includes activities that happen outside of a good or service provider s website. These may include electronic storefronts posting products on FACEBOOK TWITTER PINREST and other social networks advertisement etc. However many large brands seem to be abandoning that approach. The poor performance has been attributed to the lack of purchase intent when users are engaged on social media sites which were designed to interact with other people and not to purchase products.

 Onsite social commerce refers to retailers including social sharing and other social functionality on their website. Some notable examples include ZAZZLE which enables users to share their purchases MACY S which allows users to create a poll to find the right product and FAB.COM which shows a live feed of what other shoppers are buying. Onsite user reviews are also considered a part of social commerce.

The 2011 Banklnter Foundation for Innovation conference on Social Technologies discussed six C s of Social Technologies including content community commerce context connection and conversation.

Content The basic need to engage with customers prospects and stakeholders through valuable published content on the web. Early examples of this were the brochure sites for organizations and this has matured into a vast and growing body of material being published in real time onto the web. GOOGLE and UNITTUS are organizations that have been at the forefront of indexing and making findable content on the web.

Community Treating the audience as a community with the objective of building sustainable relationships by providing tangible value. Early incarnations of Community were mobilized through registration and engaged via email programs this evolved into online forums chat rooms and membership groups where users were able to interact with each other an early example being YAHOO GROUPS. Social Networks are the latest incarnation of community and of the many networks FACEBOOK and TWITTER are the leading organization providing the platform for interpersonal interactions.

Commerce Being able to fulfill customers needs via a transactional web presence typically online retailers banks insurance companies travel sales sites provide the most useful business to consumer services. Business to business sites range from online storage and hosting to product sourcing and fulfillment services. AMAZON.com emerged in the 90 s and has gone on to dominate the B2C commerce space extending its services beyond traditional retail commerce.

Context The online world is able to track real world events and this is primarily being enabled by mobile devices. An online bill payment via Google Checkout or a check in at a physical location via FACEBOOK or FOURSQUARE links a real world event to an online data entity such as a business or a place. This is a vital element to Social Commerce where the data is now available to organizations wishing to provide products and services to consumers.

Connection The new online networks are defining and documenting the relationships between people these relationships may originate in the physical world or online and may manifest in the other as a result of a connection in the first. LINKEDIN FACEBOOK TWITTER and UNITTUS are prime examples of online networks Professional Social and Casual. The relationships the scope of those relationships and the interactions between individuals are a basis for the actions of Social Commerce. UNITUS uWorld Community includes search connect communicate and prosper together instantly with an open public format so people can connect with and individual or the community at large instantly.

Conversation All markets are conversations this may now be reversed for Social Commerce to say that all conversations are markets. A conversation between two parties will likely surface a need that could be fulfilled thus providing a potential market for supplier organizations. The challenge is for suppliers to be able to tap into those conversations and map those into the range of products and services that they supply. Simple examples of such conversations that indicate demand are where people place objects of desire on their PINTERST board a LIKE of an item inside FACEBOOK or re tweeting a TWEET on TWITTER.

The elements of social commerce include but are not limited to reciprocity community social proof authority liking and scarcity.

Reciprocity When a company gives a person something for free that person will feel the need to return the favor whether by buying again or giving good recommendations for the company.

Community When people find an individual or a group that shares the same values likes beliefs etc. they find community. People are more committed to a community that they feel accepted within. When this commitment happens they tend to follow the same trends as a group and when one member introduces a new idea or product it is accepted more readily based on the previous trust that has been established

Social proof To receive positive feedback a company needs to be willing to accept social feedback and to show proof that other people are buying and like the same things that I like. This can be seen in a lot of online companies such as eBay and Amazon that allow public feedback of products and when a purchase is made they immediately generate a list showing purchases that other people have made in relation to my recent purchase. It is beneficial to encourage open recommendation and feedback. This creates trust for you as a seller. 55 of buyers turn to social media when they re looking for information.

Authority Many people need proof that a product is of good quality. This proof can be based on the recommendations of others who have bought the same product. If there are many user reviews about a product then a consumer will be more willing to trust their own decision to buy this item.

Liking People trust based on the recommendations of others. If there are a lot of likes of a particular product then the consumer will feel more confident and justified in making this purchase.

Scarcity If a person is convinced that they are purchasing something that is unique special or not easy to acquire they will have more of a willingness to make a purchase. If there is trust established from the seller they will want to buy these items immediately. This can be seen in the cases of ZARA and APPLE who create demand for their products by convincing the public that there is a possibility of missing out on being able to purchase them.

In a social commerce and social media ecosystem everybody is connected from a economic financial standpoint regardless of how they became a member. Everything they do would have a financial connection to others within the platform on a global basis.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step plural electronic information is received from plural target applications on plural target network devices each with one or more processors on a first cloud application stored in a first non transitory computer readable medium on a cloud server network device with the one or more processors via a cloud communications network comprising one or more public communication networks one or more private networks one or more community networks and one or more hybrid networks . The plural electronic information includes plural personal electronic information input into the plural target network devices by plural individual people using search categories including a full name of a desired person etc. and search keywords uniquely created by the plural individual people.

In one embodiment the plural electronic information includes professional information personal information social information and hobby leisure information. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and more fewer or other types of information can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the plural electronic information is fully visible and or fully publically available anywhere on the cloud communications network. In such an embodiment users of the target network devices cannot create aliases and or post their information anonymously and must use their real name. This allows the plural electronic information to be publically available but any communications to be private. This helps ensure any person who enters his her information can be publically located but the individual person decides whether or not he she will privately communicate with a person who has located them and now desires to communicate with them. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention

For example Miss Katherine A a user of target device is a divorced 40 year old female who loves kids but has no kids of her own has a desire to find a man to date. She has blonde hair blue eyes is a runner that only runs in NIKE Free running shoes. She only drinks ICE MOUTAIN water. She has a brown MIKI dog. She hates baseball but is an avid CHICAGO BEARS football fan. She only drinks coffee on Wednesday mornings from 8 00 am until 8 30 am. She only wears JIMMY CHO high heel shoes to work.

So Miss Katherine A will send her in her electronic information a unique set of key words and search categories she creates. Her unique set of key words will include divorced 40 year old female runner NIKE FREE running shoes ICE MOUNTAIN water brown MIKI CHICAGO BEARS fan coffee Wednesday mornings only from 8 00 am until 8 30 pm Work Shoes JIMMY CHO only. Her search categories will include dating running running shoes dogs football am coffee high heel shoes etc. They will all be connected to Miss A by the exact spelling of her full name.

In one embodiment the plural electronic information received from the plural target applications on the plural target network devices includes a list of social connections for the user of the target network device . In such an embodiment the list of social connections are automatically categorized by the first cloud application into four categories to be used with a social media index as is illustrated in . However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In another embodiment the plural electronic information received from the plural target applications on the plural target network devices includes a list of social connections for the user of the target network device . In such an embodiment the list of social connections are manually categorized by users of the target network devices into categories to be used with the social media index as is illustrated in . In such an embodiment the users of the target devices calculate their own social media index values and send them to the first cloud application for storage. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

At Step the first cloud application stores the received plural electronic information for the plural individual people in plural pre determined search index structures in plural cloud storage objects . However the present invention is not limited to cloud storage objects of the search index structures described and other data structures for cloud and non cloud communication networks can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment at Step the first cloud application automatically translates the received plural electronic information into a plural different languages e.g. automatically translates a user base language such as English into French German Chinese Japanese Italian Swahili and 30 other languages and also stores the translated plural electronic information in the plural cloud storage objects . In such an embodiment the received plural electronic information can be searched globally in virtually any language from anywhere on the cloud communications network . However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention which does not include automatic translation.

At Step the first cloud application automatically calculates plural social media index values for the plural pre determined search index structures with electronic information from the stored plural cloud storage objects e.g. see Table 2 and Equation 1 .

At Step the first cloud application stores the calculated social media index values in the plural pre determined search index structures in the stored plural cloud storage objects .

At Step the first cloud application provides access to plural public search engines e.g. GOOGLE BING ASK YAHOO UNITTUS etc. and to plural social media sites e.g. FACEBOOK YOUTUBE TWITTER MATCH.COM E HARMONY.COM PINREST etc. to cable and Internet television services to music downloading services etc. via the cloud communications network the plural pre determined search index structures stored in the plural cloud storage objects and accept search requests for any of the plural individual people. This allows any other person on the cloud communications network to publically search for and privately communicate with any of the plural the individual people directly by name and or by using search categories and keywords uniquely created by the plural individual people or by social search index values calculated for the plural individual people. The private communication requirement also provides several layers of privacy and security for the individual people being search for by member of the general public.

For example Mr. B a single 42 year old wants to date woman 40 years old with blonde hair and has mixed breed dog that only gets along with brown MIKI dogs. Because of his schedule he can only meet for coffee on Wednesday mornings and would like to meet a woman who also likes JIMMY CHO shoes because he is a salesman for JIMMY CHO. Brown JIMMY CHO shoes are her favorite.

When Mr. B enters his search request in GOOGLE because search profiles created by the present invention are made publically available the search results from GOOGLE returns will include the social profile for Miss Katherine A as the keywords and search criteria entered by Miss A will match the search string entered by Mr. B.

As another example Mr. B happens to see a magazine article that includes a story about Miss Katherine A and her brown MIKI dog. So Mr. B can search for Miss Katherine A directly by name.

Although it is possible to search some of the categories and or keywords on existing search engines and social medial sites most sites do not allow a user to create unique and custom keywords categories or their own search strings and connect them directly to a person s name. In addition such search engines and sites do not allow the unique level of detail as the present invention. For example no site would allow a color of a dog or a day and time period for drinking coffee to be entered and searched in association with a search for a person by the exact spelling of their name.

As another example Ms. C a 50 year old divorced woman only wants to date men who are very socially connected. So she will enter a search request in GOOGLE because search profiles created by the present invention are made publically available including social index values Ms. C can enter a search query in GOOGLE for man with a social media index value of 980 or more when a social media index values include a range of zero to 1000. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

A desired person is located directly by name and or by unique search words and or search criteria created by the desired person searched in part with cascading searching and posted publically to search engines and social media sites. The search results are publically viewable. However communication with the desired person is on a private system for which another person desiring to communicate with the desired person must provide login information to communicate.

 Cascading searching includes accessing one or more search criteria and or unique search words in the social media ecosystem and triggering searching of another totally different set and or a related set of search criteria and or search terms that in turn triggers another totally different set of search criteria and or search terms etc. However the present invention is not limited to this exemplary embodiment and other embodiments and other types of searching methods can be used to practice the invention.

In the example above a search for brown MIKI dogs may cascade to brown JIMMY CHO shoes a search for Wednesday mornings may cascade to coffee and find Ms. Katherine A etc.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step the first cloud application receives from a first target application on a first target network device from a first user via the cloud communications network a request to communicate with a desired person from the plural individual people located using one or more search categories or one or more keywords uniquely created by the first user.

At Step the first cloud application automatically creates a new social commerce connection between the desired person and the first user sending the connection request from the first target network device . In one embodiment the new social commerce connection includes a social connection. In another embodiment the new social commerce connection includes a social linking connection and an e commerce connection. In another embodiment the new social commerce connection includes other types of social commerce connections . However the present invention is not limited to such connection and more fewer or other social commerce connections can be used to practice the invention.

In another embodiment at Step the user of the first target network device manually creates new social commerce connections with application on the first target network device . However the present invention is not limited to such connection and more fewer or other social commerce connections can be used to practice the invention.

At Step the first cloud application stores the new social commerce connection in the pre determined search index structures in the stored plural cloud storage objects for the desired person.

In at Step the first cloud application re calculates the social media index value associated with the desired person based on the request to communicate from the first user.

At Step the first cloud application stores the re calculated social search index value in the pre determined search index structures in the stored plural cloud storage objects for the desired person.

At Step the first cloud application sends to the first target network device a private connection request via the cloud communications network . The private connection request requires the first user of the first target network device to enter information to log into a private system to communicate the desired person.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step the first cloud application receives from a first target application on a first target network device via the cloud communications network a request to communicate with a desired person from a first user located using a social media index value .

At Step the first cloud application automatically creates a new social commerce connection between the desired person and the first user sending the connection request from the first target network device .

In another embodiment at Step the user of the first target network device manually creates new social commerce connections with application on the first target network device . However the present invention is not limited to such connection and more fewer or other social commerce connections can be used to practice the invention.

At Step the first cloud application automatically stores the new social commerce connection in the pre determined search index structures in the stored plural cloud storage objects for the desired person.

At Step the first cloud application re calculates the social media index value associated with the desired person based on the request to communicate.

In at Step the first cloud application stores the re calculated social search index value in the pre determined search index structures in the stored plural cloud storage object for the desired person.

At Step the first cloud application sends to the first target application on the first target network device a private connection request via the cloud communications network . The private connection request requires first user of the first target network device to enter information to log into a private system to privately communicate with the desired person.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step Step the first cloud application receives a request from an advertiser on another network device to provide electronic advertising to selected ones of the plural individual people included in the plural pre determined search index structures stored in the plural cloud storage objects based on a desired social media index value and or unique keyword or search category and or social commerce connection .

At Step the first cloud application provides electronic advertising to selected ones of the plural individual people included in the plural pre determined search index structures stored in the plural cloud storage objects based on desired social media index value and or unique keyword or search category and or social commerce connection .

At Step the first cloud application receives one or more electronic indications from target devices of one or more selected ones of the individual people who view the electronic advertising for the advertiser.

In at Step the first cloud application automatically creates a new social commerce connection between any of the ones of the plural individual people who view the electronic advertising and the advertiser.

At Step the first cloud application automatically stores the new social commerce connection in the pre determined search index structures in the stored plural cloud storage objects .

At Step the first cloud application automatically provides an electronic payment to an electronic account for any of the selected ones of the plural individual people who view the electronic advertising.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step the first cloud application receives from a first target application on first target network device for a first user via the cloud communications network a request to communicate with a desired person from the plural individual people located using a social commerce connection .

At Step the first cloud application re calculates the social media index value associated with the desired person based on the request to communicate from the first user.

At Step the first cloud application stores the re calculated social search index value in the pre determined search index structures in the stored plural cloud storage object for the desired person.

At Step the first cloud application sends to the first target application on the first target network device a private connection request via the cloud communications network . The private connection request requires the first user of the first target network device to enter information to log into a private system to privately communicate with the desired person.

With methods a desired person is located using information publically to search engines and or social media sites. However communication with the desired person is on a private system for which another person desiring to communicate with the desired person must provide login information to communicate with the desired person. The private system helps ensure that social media index values and social commerce connections are properly recorded and or updated and or established.

Presented herein is a method and system for social media ecosystem searching. A desired person can be searched for from public search engines and social media sites directly by name and or by unique search keywords and search categories created and publically published by the desired person a social media index of the desired person or a social commerce connection associated with the desired person. The search results are publically viewable. However communication with the desired person located within the social media ecosystem is via a private system in which a searcher must provide login information to privately communicate with the desired person. The private system helps ensure that social media index values and social commerce connections are properly established recorded and updated for the desired person and provides a layer of security and privacy. The social media searching ecosystem is provided on a cloud communications network for mobile and non mobile devices.

 Fractional cascading is a technique to speed up a sequence of binary searches from a binary tree or other data structures for searching for a same value e.g. a same search keyword etc. in a sequence of related data structures. A first binary search in the sequence takes a logarithmic amount of time as is standard for binary searches but successive searches in the sequence are faster than logarithmic time. More complex forms of fractional cascading allow data structures to be maintained as the data changes by a sequence of discrete insertion and deletion events.

In dynamic fractional cascading a list stored at each node of a binary tree or other data structure may change dynamically by a sequence of updates in which list items are dynamically inserted and deleted.

A binary tree hierarchy is a tree data structure in which each node has at most two child nodes usually distinguished as left and right . Nodes with children are parent nodes and child nodes may contain references to their parents. Outside the tree there is often a reference to the root node i.e. the ancestor of all nodes . Any node in the data structure can be reached by starting at root node and repeatedly following references to either the left or right child. A tree which does not have any node other than root node is called a null tree. In a binary tree a degree of every node is maximum two. A tree with n nodes has exactly n 1 branches or degrees.

As a simple example of fractional cascading search terms and or search categories and or subcategories are stored a collection of X ordered lists L such that the total length L of all lists is N binary searches are performed for a query value q in each of the X lists. e.g. see fractional cascading on wikipedia.org etc. from which this example was extracted and incorporated by reference etc. 

Table 6 illustrates exemplary ordered lists Lincluding numbers instead of alpha numeric search terms e.g. blonde hair blue eyes 1956 Chevrolet etc. for simplicity and to aid in the understanding of the method. However the method steps are applied for lists including the alpha numeric search terms

The simplest solution to this searching problem is just to store each list separately. The space requirement is big Oh of N O N but the time to perform a query is O k log N X as a separate binary search is performed in each of X lists. In computer science big O notation is used to classify algorithms by how they respond e.g. in their processing time and or working space requirements to changes in input size. The worst case for querying this structure occurs when each of the X lists has equal size N X so each of the X binary searches involved in a query takes time O log N X .

Fractional cascading allows this same searching problem to be solved with time and space bounds meeting the best of both worlds query time O log N X and space O N . The fractional cascading solution is to store a new sequence of lists M. The final list in this sequence M is equal to L each earlier list Mis formed by merging Lwith every second item from M. With each item x in this merged list two numbers are stored the position resulting from searching for x in Land the position resulting from searching for x in M. For the data illustrated in Table 6 above Table 7 illustrates the resulting cascading lists. The merged lists in Table 6 are numbered starting with zero.

If a query is preformed in this structure for q 5 a standard binary search for q is done in M finding the value 6.4 1 5 . The 1 in 6.4 1 5 indicates the search for q in Lshould return L 1 6.4. The 5 in 6.4 1 5 indicates that the approximate location of q in Mis position 5. More precisely binary searching for q in Mwould return either the value 7.9 3 5 at position 5 or the value 6.2 3 3 one place earlier. By comparing q to 6.2 and observing that it is smaller it is determined that the correct search result in Mis 6.2 3 3 . The first 3 in 6.2 3 3 indicates that the search for q in Lshould return L 3 a flag value meaning that q is past the end of list L. The second 3 in 6.2 3 3 indicates that the approximate location of q in Mis position 3. More precisely binary searching for q in Mwould return either the value 6.2 2 3 at position 3 or the value 4.4 1 2 one place earlier.

A comparison of q with the smaller value 4.4 indicates that the correct search result in Mis 6.2 2 3 . The 2 in 6.2 2 3 indicates that the search for q in Lshould return L 2 6.2 and the 3 in 6.2 2 3 tells us that the result of searching for q in Mis either M 3 7.9 3 0 or M 2 4.6 2 0 comparing q with 4.6 shows that the correct result is 7.9 3 0 and that the result of searching for q in Lis L 3 7.9. Thus q has been located in each of the four lists by doing a binary search in the single list Mfollowed by a single comparison in each of the successive lists.

More generally for any search data structure of this type a query is performed by doing a binary search for q in M and determining from the resulting value the position of q in L. Then for each i 1 the known position of q in Mis used to find its position in M. The value associated with the position of q in Mpoints to a position in Mthat is either the correct result of the binary search for q in Mor is a single step away from that correct result so stepping from i to i 1 requires only a single comparison. Thus the total time for a search query is thus O log N X .

In the present invention a new type of cascading searching is used. Dynamic cross connect cascading searching. In such an embodiment search terms search categories and search sub categories are placed into search lists. The search terms and search categories and search sub categories are collected from public and private search engine sites and public and private social media profiles all over the cloud network and stored in plural cloud storage objects . The plural cloud storage objects are accessible from the first cloud application . Such an embodiment also creates related cascading micro levels across search categories sub categories and key words. Cross connections are created to create inter category inter sub category and inter keyword connections. Such cascading micro levels with cross connections provide a more in depth search to a more exact precise micro level.

In one exemplary embodiment search by key words is broken up into major search categories including but not limited to social and or personal career and or professional and leisure and or hobby. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and more fewer and other search categories can also be used. Within the major search categories there are related subcategories which include a selection of default pre populated search keywords and or a combination user defined search keywords and or additional desired search keywords.

In another embodiment search subcategories amongst all major search categories are combined within one search query creating a cascading effect to the micro levels in the search lists. In addition the cascading effect to micro levels not only provides an exact match but also provides a closest match to as many exact search characteristics as encountered of a matched micro level targeting search result for a desired person. In addition the cascading searching provides a global match of every social media profile and or other profile that a search keyword was found in regardless of which search category search subcategory or search keyword category it was actually populated in.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step plural electronic information is received from a first target application on a first target network device with one or more processors on a first cloud application stored in a first non transitory computer readable medium on a cloud server network device with the one or more processors via a cloud communications network for a social media ecosystem comprising one or more public communication networks one or more private networks one or more community networks and one or more hybrid networks . The electronic information includes a search request and plural search keywords or search categories to search for a desired person. The social media ecosystem includes a community of participates and searchers associated with plural social media sites on the cloud communications network .

At Step the first cloud application stores the received plural electronic information in one or more cloud storage objects .

In one embodiment at Step see also Step of Method the first cloud application automatically translates the received plural electronic information into a plural different languages e.g. automatically translates a user base language such as English into French German Chinese Japanese Italian Spanish Swahili and 30 other languages and also stores the translated plural electronic information in the plural cloud storage objects . In such an embodiment the received plural electronic information can be searched globally in virtually any language from anywhere on the cloud communications network . However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention which does not include automatic translation.

In at Step the first cloud application uses cascading searching described herein with the plural search keywords or plural search categories or plural search subcategories from the received electronic information to obtain a final set of search results. The cascading searching includes searching plural personal profiles including plural public and private social media profiles public and private search engine data information and plural public and private databases stored in plural of search cloud storage objects associated with first cloud application . The cascading searching provides an exact match and or a closest match including as many exact search characteristics as encountered or a global a global match including every encountered instance in electronic information in which a desired search keyword or search category associated with the desired person is found.

At Step the first cloud application sends via the cloud communications network to the first target application the final set of person search results and instructions a first user of the first target network device to enter information to log into a private system to privately communicate the desired individual person located by the search request and providing a layer of security for the located desired person thereby allowing any person on the cloud communications network to publically search for and privately communicate with the located desired person.

In one embodiment a voice communication request is made by the first user to privately communicate with the located desired person. In such an embodiment the first user logs onto the private system makes the voice request and the first cloud application creates a voice connection e.g. mobile phone voice non mobile phone voice VoIP etc. between the first user and the desired located person via the cloud communications network .

In another embodiment a voice communication request is made by the first user who speaks a first language to privately communicate with the located desired person who speaks a second different language on the private system . In such an embodiment the first cloud application creates a translation voice connection between the first user and the desired located person after the first user logs into the private system via the cloud communications network . The first cloud application automatically translates voice information from first language of the first user to the different second language of the located desired person and visa versa. This allows any person speaking virtually any language anywhere on to communicate with any other located person speaking a totally different language See .

In at Step the first cloud application creates plural cascading searching lists from the plural search cloud storage objects. At Step the first cloud application creates plural cascading merged lists from the created plural cascading searching lists. At Step the first cloud application creates plural related micro levels in the created cascading merged lists. The plural related micro levels include one or more cross connections between selected ones of the plural cascading merged lists including cross connections between the search categories search subcategories and search keywords in the search categories and search subcategories. At Step the first cloud application creates a cascading searching query including the search characteristics from the received search request. At Step the first cloud application simultaneously searches the plural cascading searching merged lists with the cascading search query to the plural related micro levels including searching the one or more cross connections between the plural related micro levels. At Step the first cloud application returns an exact match for the desired person from the cascading searching query a closest match for the desired person from the cascading search query including as many exact search characteristics matched as encountered if no exact match can be found or a global match for the desired person including every encountered instance in which a desired search keyword or search category associated with the desired person is found.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step the first cloud application creates plural cascading searching lists e.g. Table 6 from the plural search cloud storage objects .

At Step the first cloud application creates plural cascading merged lists e.g. Table 7 etc. from the created plural cascading searching lists .

At Step the first cloud application creates plural related micro levels in the created cascading merged lists . The plural related micro levels include one or more cross connections between selected ones of the plural cascading merged lists including cross connections between the search categories search subcategories and search keywords in the search categories and search subcategories.

In one embodiment the plural related micro levels are at a same level. In another embodiment the plural related micro levels are at one or more different levels. However the present invention is not limited to such embodiments and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

At Step the first cloud application creates a cascading searching query including the search characteristics from the received search request e.g. Step Method .

In one embodiment the cascading searching query is used to initiate a cascading search across all search categories e.g. social or personal search category career or professional search category and leisure or hobby search category etc. simultaneously for search keywords from the search request. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiment can be used to practice the invention.

Search techniques known in the art do not search across such search categories and do not complete inter category searches. Such search techniques do not allow the micro level of search matching for a desired person and typically only search one search category at a time e.g. only professional only personal etc. 

At Step the first cloud application simultaneously searches the plural cascading searching merged lists with the cascading search query to the plural related micro levels including searching the one or more cross connections between the plural related micro levels .

At Step the first cloud application returns an exact match for the desired person from the cascading searching query a closest match for the desired person from the cascading search query including as many exact search characteristics matched as encountered if no exact match can be found or a global match for the desired person including every encountered instance in which a desired search keyword or search category associated with the desired person is found.

In one embodiment Method is used at Step of Method . However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other methods can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cascading searching of Methods and are used to search by and re calculate social index values and or social commerce connections e.g. with Methods etc. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other methods can be used to practice the invention. In addition the present invention is not limited to searching for a desired person by social index values and or by social commerce connections .

In one embodiment the cascading searching of Methods and are used to search for desired people by advertisers e.g. with Method etc. . However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other methods can be used to practice the invention.

Using Methods and and referring to the example cited above again Miss Katherine A created and stored a search profile e.g. with Methods etc. with a unique set of user generated key words and search categories. Her unique set of key words included divorced 40 year old female runner NIKE FREE running shoes ICE MOUNTAIN water brown MIKI CHICAGO BEARS fan coffee Wednesday mornings only from 8 00 am until 8 30 pm Work Shoes JIMMY CHO only. Her search categories included dating running running shoes dogs football am coffee high heel shoes etc. They will all be connected to Miss A by the exact spelling of her full name.

Referring to Mr. B again a single 42 year old wants to date woman 40 years old with blonde hair and has mixed breed dog that only gets along with brown MIKI dogs. Because of his schedule he can only meet for coffee on Wednesday mornings and would like to meet a woman who also likes JIMMY CHO shoes because he is a salesman for JIMMY CHO. Brown JIMMY CHO shoes are her favorite.

For example as was discussed in the example above a search for brown MIKI dogs cascades to brown JIMMY CHO shoes as a result of a related micro level cascade cross connections created by the present invention and used with the cascading searching . A search for Wednesday mornings cascades to coffee and finds Ms. Katherine A again because of another related micro level cascade cross connections created by the present invention and used with cascading searching . There are many other cascade cross connections that can be used even with the simple example listed.

With searching techniques known in the art cascading searching cross connections are not made across search categories or search sub categories or across keywords. For example Mr. B professionally is a salesman for JIMMY CHO shoes. With cascading searching techniques known in the art the fact that Ms. A personally likes JIMMY CHO shoes would not be found with a cascading searching result because Mr. B s reference to JIMMY CHO shoes is in a professional search category subcategory while Ms. A. reference to JIMMY CHO shoes is a personal search category subcategory. However in the present invention cascading searching with micro levels in the populated cascaded search lists of the present invention provides such cross over connections and would return a match for Ms. A when Mr. B enters his search query.

Therefore cascading searching of the present invention can be used to locate a desired person with a precision level not available with any regular or cascade search techniques known in the art. It has been determined experimentally that a total time for a search query with cascading searching including micro levels with cross connections is less than O log N X by a factor up to about ten up to about equal to O log N X depending on the a number of and type cross connections made in the micro levels.

These examples are exemplary only and more fewer and other types of search words and or search categories and or search subcategories can be used to create micro level cascade cross connections for the present invention.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step the first cloud application receives from the first target application on the first target network device via the cloud communications network a voice request from the first user to search for the desired person in the social media ecosystem .

At Step the first cloud application automatically converts the voice request into electronic cascading searching information.

At Step the first cloud application uses cascading searching e.g. Method etc. to locate the desired person with the converted electronic cascading searching information.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step the first cloud application receives from the first target application on the first target network device via the cloud communications network a voice request from the first user to search for the desired person.

At Step the first cloud application automatically converts the voice request into electronic cascading searching information.

At Step from the first cloud application automatically translates the converted electronic cascading searching information into plural different supported languages.

At Step the first cloud application uses cascading searching e.g. Method etc. to locate the desired person with the translated converted cascading searching electronic information in the plural different supported languages.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step the first cloud application receives from the first user on the first target application on the first target network device via the cloud communications network a voice communications request to communicate on the private system with the located desired person located with cascading searching. The first user speaks a first language and the second user speaks a different second language and the first user has log onto the private system 

At Step the first cloud application creates a voice connection between the first user of the first target network device and the located desired person using another target network device e.g. etc. with one or more processors via the private system over the cloud communications network .

At Step the first cloud application automatically translates voice information received from the first user on the first target network device in the first language into the different second language for the located desired person on the another target network device .

At Step the first cloud application automatically translates voice information received in different second language for the located desired person on the another target network device into the first language for the first user on the first target network device .

The present invention was described with respect to searching for a desired person. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and can also be used to search for goods services and or virtually any type of entity on the social media ecosystem . The invention can also be used on a non cloud communications network.

Cascading searching is used to locate a desired person in a social media ecosystem. Plural related micro levels are created in cascading searching lists. The plural related micro levels include one or more cross connections between the plural cascading merged lists including cross connections between the search categories search subcategories or search keywords in the search categories and search subcategories. The cascading searching provides micro level searching for a desired person in the social media ecosystem at a level not available with other searching techniques. The system includes voice search requests and automatic translation of search requests into plural different languages. The social media search ecosystem cascading searching services are provided on a cloud communications network for mobile and non mobile devices. The methods and system are described for use on a cloud communications network but are not limited to cloud communications networks and can also be used on a non cloud communications network.

It should be understood that the architecture programs processes methods and It should be understood that the architecture programs processes methods and systems described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computer or network system hardware or software unless indicated otherwise. Various types of general purpose or specialized computer systems may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings described herein.

In view of the wide variety of embodiments to which the principles of the present invention can be applied it should be understood that the illustrated embodiments are exemplary only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the present invention. For example the steps of the flow diagrams may be taken in sequences other than those described and more or fewer elements may be used in the block diagrams.

While various elements of the preferred embodiments have been described as being implemented in software in other embodiments hardware or firmware implementations may alternatively be used and vice versa.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. In addition use of the term means in any claim is intended to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 and any claim without the word means is not so intended.

Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

