---

title: Screenshot orientation detection
abstract: A method and/or system for screenshot orientation detection may include performing an initial optical character recognition (OCR) and/or an initial face recognition technique on a screenshot of an application. A determination of whether the screenshot orientation is correct may be made based on, for example, the initial OCR and/or the initial face recognition technique. In an event when the screenshot orientation is not correct, a determination of a correct screenshot orientation may be made. In this regard, the screenshot may be rotated (e.g., by a predetermined number of degrees). A subsequent OCR and/or a subsequent face recognition technique may be performed on the rotated screenshot. A determination may be made whether the screenshot orientation of the rotated screenshot is correct based on, for example, the subsequent OCR and/or the subsequent face recognition technique.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09165207&OS=09165207&RS=09165207
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09165207
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130225
---
Aspects of the present application relate to verifying mobile applications. More specifically certain implementations of the present disclosure relate to a method and or system for screenshot orientation detection.

Various types of electronic devices are now commonly utilized. In this regard electronic devices may include for example personal and non personal devices mobile and non mobile devices communication wired and or wireless devices general and special purpose devices. Examples of electronic devices may comprise cellular phones smartphones tablets personal computers laptops and the like. As the use of electronic devices increases the consumption of electronic device applications also increases. User experience with the applications may be inhibited by careless release of applications to application stores.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and or system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Method and or system for screenshot orientation detection substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present disclosure as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure may be found in a method and or system for screenshot orientation detection. In various embodiments of the disclosure a method and or system for screenshot orientation detection may include performing an initial image processing technique e.g. an initial optical character recognition OCR an initial face recognition technique etc. on a screenshot of an application where the screenshot comprises a screenshot orientation. A determination of whether the screenshot orientation is correct may be made based on for example the initial image processing technique e.g. the initial OCR the initial face recognition technique etc. . In an event when the screenshot orientation is not correct a determination of a correct screenshot orientation may be made. In this regard the screenshot may be rotated by for example a predetermined number of degrees. A subsequent image processing technique e.g. subsequent OCR subsequent face recognition technique etc. may be performed on the rotated screenshot. A determination may be made whether the screenshot orientation of the rotated screenshot is correct based on for example the subsequent image processing technique e.g. the subsequent OCR the subsequent face recognition technique etc. .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure a notification to a developer entity associated with the application may be sent. The notification may be indicative of for example whether the screenshot orientation is correct. The notification may include an option for the developer entity to select the correct screenshot orientation for the application.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the term block refers to functions processes threads etc. than can be performed by one or more circuits. As utilized herein the term e.g. introduces a list of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein the term server may refer to a plurality of machines at least some of which may be installed in different locations and each of which may be utilized to implement distinct and or redundant functions associated with operations attributed to and or performed by the server.

A developer entity may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate data and or messages via wired and or wireless connections configured in accordance with one or more supported wireless and or wired protocols standards and or interfaces e.g. Ethernet Bluetooth WiFi cellular WiMAX WLAN NFC . The developer entity may be operable to process generate present and or output data and or messages. The developer entity may be enabled to perform run and or execute various functions operations applications and or programs based on for example user instructions and or interactions and or pre configured instructions. In this regard the developer entity may be operable to communicate for example with the application server .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the developer entity may be operable to communicate with the application server through an application programming interface API . In another example embodiment of the disclosure the developer entity may communicate with the application server via an on line e.g. web browser interface. The API and or the web interface may be provided and or supported by an application server such as for example the application server . In this regard the developer entity may be operable to automatically and or in response to a user interaction send utilizing the API and or the web interface a request to the application server for the application server to approve an application such as for example the application for including in application store. The disclosure and or any implementation s in accordance therewith are not limited to any particular type of a communication interface.

The developer entity may be operable to create develop program store and or manage applications such as for example the application s . The Application s may comprise for example various programs and or applications intended to be installed accessed and or otherwise operable for use on an electronic device such as for example a cellular phone smartphone tablet set top box television laptop computer desktop and or personal computer personal media player and or other device which may communicate process generate present and or output data. The applications may comprise for example games business applications e.g. word processing corporate e mail access personal applications e.g. e mail web browsing personal diary social networking application and other applications that may be intended for use on an electronic device.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the developer entity may send to an application server such as for example the application server a request comprising application data and or the application s for an approval of the application s by the application server for release in an application store. The application store may be supported and or managed by for example the application server . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the application store may be an application store accessible through an electronic device e.g. through an application store application applications store web application etc. that may be operable to provide a user of the electronic device with an option to browse download and or purchase various applications such as for example the application s .

The application server may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide application approval services to developer entities such as for example the developer entity . For example the application server may be enabled to provide application acceptance screening e.g. screenshot orientation detection etc. processing management and or upsell e.g. providing purchasing options to users of electronic devices for purchasing applications submitted by the developer entity etc. . The application server may also be operable to provide services related to an application store such as for example managing applications in an application store for advertising and or sale to users of electronic devices. The application server may comprise a dedicated system and or a general purpose system configured to provide application approval services e.g. application screenshot detection to developer entities such as for example the developer entity . The application server may for example comprise the application server as depicted in and or described with respect to . The disclosure and or any implementation s in accordance therewith however are not limited to any particular type of an application server.

The application server may be operable to communicate data and or messages via wired and or wireless connections configured in accordance with one or more supported wireless and or wired protocols standards and or interfaces e.g. Ethernet Bluetooth WiFi cellular WiMAX WLAN NFC with developer entities such as for example the developer entity . The application server may be enabled to process store manage and or communicate data and or messages relevant to providing application approval and or management services to developer entities such as for example the developer entity . Furthermore the application server may be operable to provide communication services to and from the developer entity . For example the application server may include one or more transceivers for providing wired and or wireless communication of data to and from developer entities such as for example the developer entity .

In operation a developer entity such as for example the developer entity may send to an application server such as for example the application server a request for an approval of an application such as for example application . In this regard the request may comprise application data e.g. developer data version application category executable instructions application screenshots etc. . The application server may based on for example the request determine whether the application may be released to an application store. For example the application server may determine whether the request comprises one or more application screenshots.

The application server may determine whether one or more of the application screenshots have a correct orientation. In this regard the applications server may perform a variety of image processing techniques e.g. image composition deviation optical character recognition OCR facial recognition visual search etc. .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the application server may automatically adjust an incorrect screenshot orientation and may send to the developer entity application receipt data. The application receipt data may for example comprise data and or information notifying the developer entity of the adjustment. The notification may comprise an option to reverse the adjustment.

In another example embodiment of the disclosure the application server may not automatically adjust an incorrect screenshot orientation and may send to the developer entity application receipt data. The application receipt data may for example comprise data and or information indicating whether each of the one or more application screenshots has a correct orientation.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure an approval of the application for release in an application store may or may not be conditional on a correct orientation of the one or more screenshots of the application . For example the application may not be approved for release if one or more screenshots of the application has an incorrect orientation. In another example the application may be approved for release even if one or more screenshots of the application has an incorrect orientation. In either case the application server may send a notification for example as part of the application receipt data to the developer entity associated with that application . In this regard the notification may comprise data and or information indicative of the determined incorrect screenshot orientation. The notification may further comprise for example an option and or instructions to automatically and or manually correct the determined incorrect screenshot orientation.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure an example automatic option to correct the determined incorrect screenshot orientation may be associated with for example providing an automated method for the developer entity to send to the application server a request to automatically correct the incorrect screenshot orientation. For example the application server may send to the developer entity a message including for example a hyperlink and or any other method that may allow the developer entity associated with the application to send a request to the application server to automatically correct the determined incorrect screenshot orientation.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the message may be an e mail message. The e mail message may comprise for example a graphical representation e.g. an image of the determined incorrect screenshot and or a graphical representation e.g. an image of a suggested correct screenshot orientation. The e mail message may provide an option to the developer entity to respond to the screenshot orientation determination. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the option may be an option to automatically correct the orientation of the screenshot from the determined incorrect orientation to the suggested correct orientation. In another example embodiment of the disclosure the option may be an option to reject the suggested corrected orientation when for example the suggested corrected orientation is incorrect e.g. the determined incorrect orientation is instead correct or another orientation may be correct .

The option may be in a form of for example a hyperlink a shortcut and any other method that would facilitate an automated e.g. without custom user input communication between the developer entity and the application server . For example if the option is a form of a hyperlink the developer entity may process the hyper link e.g. automatically though an API that may allow communication between the developer entity and the application server manually though a user interaction selecting and or interacting with the hyperlink etc. . The processing of the hyperlink may cause the developer entity to send to the application server a message such as for example an automatically generated e mail and or any other communication that may be received and or processed by the application server .

In another example embodiment of the disclosure the option may be in a form of a text communication. For example the text communication may direct the developer entity to for example log into a developer account associated with the developer entity . It is to be understood that the text communication may also include for example an option to automatically log into the developer account by for example opening a developer interface e.g. a web browser interface etc. and or re directing to a developer interface that may provide an option for the developer entity to respond to the screenshot orientation determination.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the application server may provide and or manage developer registration and or authentication services. A developer entity such as for example the developer entity may register with the registration authentication services provided by the application server by for example creating a developer account. The registration services may provide for example for a graphical user interface GUI where a user associated with the developer entity may initiate a registration process for the developer entity .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the registration of the developer entity may comprise registering one or more application entities under the developer account. For example if a developer entity is associated with a company with one or more application development departments one or more application entities may become registered under the develop account and each of the one or more application entities may correspond to a different application development department associated with the same developer entity . Moreover separate login e.g. user name and password combination etc. may or may not be provided for one or more of the one or more application entities.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the application server may provide developer authentication services. For example during an application approval process the application server may provide a prompt to a user associated with the developer entity for authentication data and or information. The developer entity e.g. in response to user input and or a predefine criteria may send the authentication data and or information to the application server for authenticating the developer entity .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the application server may automatically authenticate the developer entity when for example the developer entity itself e.g. without a user s intervention or through a user associated with the developer entity sends a request to the application server for the application server to approve an application for including in an application store. In this regard when the application server receives the request the application server may verify the identity of the developer entity . For example the application server may initiate and or perform a search on a developer database to determine whether the developer entity corresponds to a particular developer entity and authenticate the particular developer entity based on the correspondence.

The application server may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to implement various aspects of the disclosure. In this regard the application server may correspond to the application server of . The application server may for example comprise a main processor a memory a communication subsystem a developer registration subsystem and or an application management subsystem AMS .

The main processor may comprise suitable circuitry interfaces logic and or code that may be operable to process data and or control and or manage components operations and or functions of the application server and or tasks performed therein. In this regard the main processor may configure and or control operations of various components and or subsystems of the application server such as for example for example the memory the communication subsystem the developer registration subsystem and or the AMS by utilizing one or more control signals.

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that that may be operable to enable permanent and or non permanent storage buffering and or fetching of data code and or other information which may be used consumed and or processed by the components of the application server . In this regard the memory may be enabled to store executable instructions to manage and or configure for example the main processor the communication subsystem the developer registration subsystem and or the AMS . The memory may store for example configuration data which may comprise parameters and or code comprising software and or firmware. The memory may comprise different memory technologies including for example read only memory ROM random access memory RAM low latency nonvolatile memory flash memory solid state drive SSD field programmable gate array FPGA and or other suitable electronic data storage capable of storing data code and or other information.

The memory may comprise one or more databases such as for example a developer registration database and or an application database .

The developer registration database may comprise a plurality of entities each corresponding to a particular developer entity that may be associated with for example an individual and or a company that may develop applications that may be accepted screened processed managed and or upsold to users of electronic services by for example the application server . In this regard each entity may comprise information and or data such as for example developer account user name developer account password developer e mail address developer category e.g. developer of games business personal social and or networking applications etc. application entity entities that may be associated with the developer entity. In an example embodiment of the disclosure a developer entity may correspond to one or more application entities e.g. one or more application entities may correspond to a developer entity . In this regard each of the one or more application entities may correspond to for example a different application development department that may be associated with developing particular type s of applications such as for example games business applications personal social networking applications etc.

The application database may comprise a plurality of entities each corresponding to an application that may be developed by for example a developer entity and or submitted to the application server for acceptance screening e.g. determining screenshot orientation etc. processing managing and or upselling e.g. providing purchasing options to users of electronic devices for purchasing applications submitted by a developer entity to the application server . The entities in the events database may be stored and or retrieved based on for example an application name application type e.g. game business application personal application social networking application etc. a developer entity associated with the application.

The communication subsystem may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate data from and or to the application server such as via one or more wired and or wireless connections. For example the communication subsystem may comprise one or more transceivers for providing wired and or wireless communication of data. The communication subsystem may be configured to support one or more wired and or wireless protocols standards and or interfaces e.g. Ethernet Bluetooth WiFi satellite and or cellular network WiMAX WLAN NFC facilitating transmission and or reception of signals to and or from the application server and or processing of transmitted or received signals in accordance with applicable wired or wireless protocols. In this regard signal processing operations may comprise filtering amplification analog to digital conversion and or digital to analog conversion up conversion down conversion of baseband signals encoding decoding encryption decryption and or modulation demodulation.

The developer registration subsystem may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate process and or manage developer registration and or authentication requests and or developer entity registration and or authentication requests. In this regard the developer registration subsystem may be operable to manage developer accounts e.g. create and or store new developer accounts access store update modify and or mange existing developer accounts . The developer registration subsystem may access manage and or process data in a developer database such as for example the developer database . For example upon receiving a request to create a new developer account the developer registration subsystem may create a data entity in the developer database .

The AMS may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to accept screen e.g. determine screenshot orientation etc. process manage and or upsell e.g. provide purchasing options to users of electronic devices for purchasing applications submitted by a developer entity to the application server . The AMS may comprise an image processing module and or an application approval module .

The image processing module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to provide image processing services. For example the image processing module may perform a variety of image processing techniques e.g. image composition deviation optical character recognition OCR facial recognition visual search etc. on for example a screenshot of an application submitted by a developer entity to the applications server .

The application approval module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to provide application approval services e.g. an approval for release in an application store . For example the application approval module may receive and or process application s and or application data from a developer entity. In this regard the application approval module may determine whether the application s and or application data is within one or more a pre determined criteria e.g. application quality content functionality description screenshot quality and orientation etc. .

In operation the application server may be operable to receive from a developer entity such as for example the developer entity a request for approving an application for release in an application store. The request may comprise application data and or the application for which the approval is requested. In this regard the communication subsystem may receive and or process the request.

The AMS in response to the request may determine whether the request corresponds to a particular developer entity. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the request may comprise data and or information relating to a developer entity. In this regard the AMS may initiate a search on a developer database such as for example the developer database to determine a particular entity associated with the request and or the application subject to the request. In another example embodiment of the disclosure the request may comprise data and or information relating to a particular application e.g. an existing application which for example is already available in the application store and the request comprises for example another version and or release of the existing application and or a fix and or an update to the existing application etc. . In this regard the AMS may initiate a search on an application database such as for example the application database to determine a particular application associated with the request and or the application subject to the request. The AMS may also initiate a search on the application database to determine a particular developer entity associated with the request and or the application subject to the request.

The AMS in response to the request determine various application approval criteria that may be applicable to the request and or to the application subject to the request. The criteria may include application quality criteria such as for example user experience criteria e.g. graphics error free operation etc. application upsell quality criteria e.g. developer description application description application category sample application screenshots etc. application content criteria e.g. content approved for a particular category of an application and or application functionality criteria.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the AMS may determine based on for example the request and or the application subject to the request one or more application approval criteria and may request from the application approval module to analyze and or process all or some application data e.g. that may be received as part of the request to approve an application for release in an application store to determine whether the application meets one or more of the one or more application approval criteria. The AMS may request from the application approval module to analyze and or process the application data separately with respect to each of the one or more application approval criteria and or collectively for one or more of the one or more application approval criteria. For example the AMS may send one request to the application approval module corresponding for each of the one or more application approval criteria e.g. applicable to the request and or the application subject to the request based on the determination by the AMS . In another example the AMS may send one request to the application approval module for any combination of the one or more application approval criteria.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the AMS may determine that the request comprises one or more sample application screenshots. Based on the determination the AMS may determine that one or more application upsell quality criteria apply such as for example a sample application screenshot related criterion. In this regard AMS may request from the application approval module for the application approval module to analyze and or process the one or more sample application screenshots to determine whether the one or more sample application meet the application screenshot related criterion e.g. whether the orientation of each of the one or more sample application screenshots is correct . In this regard the application approval module may request from the image processing module for the image processing module to analyze and or process the one or more sample application screenshots e.g. image s associated with the one or more sample application screenshots . One or more of the one or more sample application screenshots may be subject to one request e.g. the request may comprise a request to evaluate just one sample application screenshot or more than one sample application screenshots .

The image processing module may analyze and or process a particular sample application screenshot by performing a variety of image processing techniques e.g. image composition deviation optical character recognition OCR facial recognition visual search etc. on the particular sample application screenshot. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the image processing module may determine whether the particular sample application screenshot comprises text characters by for example performing an OCR. In this regard the image processing module may perform an OCR on the particular sample application screenshot in its original orientation. If for example the image processing module determines that no text may be found as a result of the OCR the image processing module may rotate the particular sample application screenshot by a pre determine number of degrees and may perform a subsequent OCR on the rotated sample application screenshot.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure if the image processing module for example determines that the orientation of a sample application screenshot is incorrect e.g. no text characters recognized no faces recognized etc. the image processing module may proceed to rotate the sample application screenshot by for example 90 180 and 270 degrees performing a subsequent image processing technique e.g. OCR face recognition etc. after each rotation until for example a correct orientation of the sample application screenshot is determined or until the rotation results in an original orientation of the sample application screenshot.

For example if an initial image processing technique results in a determination that the original orientation of the sample application screenshot is incorrect the image processing module may rotate by for example 90 degrees the sample application screenshot and may perform a subsequent image processing technique on the rotated by 90 degrees sample application screenshot. If for example the image processing module determines that the rotated by 90 degrees sample application screenshot still has an incorrect orientation the image processing module may rotate the rotated by 90 degrees sample application screenshot by another 90 degrees or the original sample applications screenshot by 180 degrees and may perform another image processing technique on the rotated screenshot by 180 degrees from the original orientation . If for example the image processing module determines that the rotated by 180 degrees from the original orientation sample application screenshot still has an incorrect orientation the image processing module may perform another 90 degree rotation on the rated by 180 degrees from the original orientation sample application screenshot and perform another subsequent image processing technique on the rotated screenshot by 270 degrees from the original orientation .

The image processing module may for example determine that after three 90 degree rotations combined with one or more image processing techniques as for example described above resulted in a lack of determination of a correct screenshot orientation e.g. no text characters recognized no faces recognized etc. . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the image processing module may send a notification to the application approval module indicating that a correct screenshot orientation cannot be determined. In another example embodiment of the disclosure the image processing module may for example perform another sequence of one or more sample screenshot rotations combined with one or more the same and or different image processing techniques. For example the image processing module may the same sequence of rotations e.g. 90 180 270 degrees with respect to the original orientation combined with different one or more image processing techniques and or may perform a sequence of rotations e.g. 45 135 225 degrees with respect to the original orientation combined with the same image processing techniques as previously performed in combination with a sequence of rotation by 90 180 and 270 degrees with respect to the original orientation.

It is to be understood that the number of rotations is not limited to any particular number. For example the image processing module may only rote a sample application screenshot once or it may rotate the sample application screenshot by any number of times e.g. two three four etc. . Also it is to be understood that the number of degrees corresponding to each rotation is not limited to any particular number of degrees. For example the number of degrees corresponding to a rotation may be for example 1 5 30 45 90 etc. Furthermore the number of degrees corresponding to each rotation may be expressed as fraction of a degree e.g. etc. Additionally the number of degrees corresponding to each rotation for example in a sequence or rotations may not be the same. For example the image processing module may perform an initial image processing technique on a sample application screenshot and may determine that the orientation of the sample application screenshot is incorrect. The image processing module may then rotate the sample applications screenshot by for example 35 degrees may perform a subsequent image processing technique and may determine that the orientation of the rotated by 35 degrees sample application screenshot is still incorrect. The image processing module may then rotate the rotated by 35 degrees sample application screenshot by for example 90 degrees and may perform a subsequent image processing technique on the rotated by 125 degrees from the original orientation sample application screenshot.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the number of rotations the number of degrees corresponding to each rotation and or a particular image processing technique may be specified and or pre determined by the application approval module and or may be sent to the image processing module as a part of the request to determine a correct orientation of a sample application screenshot. In another embodiment of the disclosure the number of rotations the number of degrees corresponding to each rotation and or a particular image processing technique may be determined by the image processing module through rotation logic. For example the request to determine a correct orientation received from the application approval module may comprise data and or information indicative of for example a type and or a category of an application e.g. game personal application business application social networking application etc. . For example a sample screenshot of a game type application may be more likely to include faces and or a sample screenshot of a personal type application e.g. personal diary etc. may be more likely to include text characters. Based on for example the type and or category of the application the image processing module may determine that for example in determining a correct orientation of the sample application screenshot a face recognition technique may be performed for a game type application and or an OCR technique may be performed for a personal type application.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the image processing module may perform one or more image processing techniques with respect to a particular sample application screenshot. For example the image processing module may perform a first image processing technique e.g. OCR face recognition etc. that may also be combined with for example image rotation. The image processing module may then perform a second image processing technique e.g. OCR face recognition etc. . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the image processing module may perform any number of subsequent image processing techniques. For example the first image processing technique may or may not be different from the second image processing technique and or any subsequent image processing technique.

For example the image processing module may first perform for example an OCR on the sample application screenshot combined with for example 90 180 and 270 degree image rotations and then the image processing module may perform for example face recognition on the sample application screenshot combined with for example 90 180 and 270 degree image rotations.

In another example embodiment of the disclosure the image processing module may first perform for example an OCR on the sample application screenshot combined with for example 90 180 and 270 degree image rotations and then the image processing module may perform for example another OCR on the sample application screenshot combined with for example 45 135 and 225 degree image rotations.

In yet another example embodiment of the disclosure the image processing module may perform for example an OCR on the sample application screenshot rotate the sample application screenshot by for example 90 degrees perform face recognition on the rotated by 90 degrees sample application screenshot. The image processing module may rotate the rotated by 90 degrees sample application screenshot by a pre defined number of degrees e.g. 45 90 etc. and may perform another image processing technique e.g. OCR face recognition etc. . The image processing module may continue the rotation and image processing technique combination until a correct image orientation is determined and or unit a pre defined condition e.g. pre defined number of rotations pre defined number of degrees of rotation pre defined number of image processing techniques etc. and or any combination of the pre defined conditions occurs.

In another example embodiment of the disclosure the image processing module may perform one or more image processing techniques for each image rotation. For example the image processing module may first perform an OCR on a sample application screenshot and may for example determine that not text characters were recognized. Then the image processing module may perform face recognition of the sample application screenshot and may for example determine that no faces were recognized

The present disclosure is not limited to any particular image processing technique or any particular sequence of performing one or more various image processing techniques or combinations thereof . Furthermore the present disclosure is not limited to any particular pre determined pre defined and or otherwise determined image rotation sequence s or their combinations with one or more image processing techniques or sequences of performing image processing techniques .

The image processing module may send to the application approval module a message comprising data and or information indicative of the result of the analysis and or processing of a particular sample application screenshot. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the message may comprise data and or information indicative of for example whether a determination of a correct screenshot orientation could have been made. In this regard the data and or information may indicate that one or more image processing techniques were performed and that for example based on one or more of the one or more image processing techniques a correct orientation has been determined. In another example embodiment of the disclosure the message may comprise data and or information indicative of a correct screenshot orientation. The correct orientation may comprise an original orientation of a particular sample application screenshot or a different orientation e.g. orientation in which the particular sample application screenshot may be rotated by a pre determined number of degrees e.g. 5. 90 95 180 270 etc. with respect to the original orientation . The application approval module based on for example the message received from the image processing may determine that for example the criterion relating to sample application screenshots may or may not be met by the application.

The application approval module may communicate with the AMS . In this regard the application approval module may send to the AMS data and or information indicative of whether one or more application approval criteria may be met e.g. the one or more application approval criteria that where the subject of a request from the AMS to the application approval module .

The AMS may determine based on for example the data and or information received from the application approval module whether an application may be released to the application store. The AMS may request from the communication subsystem for the communication subsystem to send to the developer entity a notification which may comprise application receipt data. The application receipt data may comprise data and or information indicative of whether the application may be released to the application store.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the application receipt data may comprise data and or information indicative of whether one or more of the one or more sample application screenshots e.g. submitted to the application server by the developer entity as a part of the request for an approval of the application for release to the application store has a correct screenshot orientation. In an example embodiment of disclose the data and or information may relate to sample application screenshots that may have for example a correct an incorrect orientation and or an undetermined orientation. For example the data and or information may relate only to sample application screenshots that have an incorrect and or undetermined orientation e.g. the application server may have been unable to confirm and or determine a correct screenshot orientation .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the application receipt data may comprise data and or information comprising a request for confirmation of an orientation of a sample application screenshot. For example when the AMS and or the image processing module may not be able to determine a correct sample screenshot orientation the AMS may request from the communication subsystem for the communication subsystem to send a request to a developer entity associated with the application. The request may comprise a sample application screenshot having an original orientation e.g. the orientation submitted by the developer entity with a request to approve the application for release in an application store .

The request may further comprise data and or information that may allow the developer entity to manually and or automatically confirm that the original orientation of the sample application screenshot is correct and or to adjust the orientation of the sample applications screenshot if the original orientation is incorrect. The manual and or automatic method may include for example one or more interactive hyperlink that when activated may be associated with a pre defined action such as for example sending a response message e.g. a pre formatted e mail etc. to the application server confirming that the original screenshot orientation is correct and or requesting an adjustment e.g. by a pre defined number of degrees of the orientation of the sample application screenshot.

Example hyperlinks may include an accept confirm link that confirms that the original orientation is correct default rotation links such as for example rotate by 90 degrees rotate by 180 degrees and or rotate by 270 degrees and or a cancellation link that request a removal of the sample application screenshot e.g. the screenshot may no longer be available for viewing in an applications store upon processing of the removal .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure different application receipt delivery methods may be utilized to communicate with the developer entity. For example the communication subsystem may based on for example a request from the AMS send to the developer entity an e mail message e.g. to an e mail address associated with the developer entity which may be retried from for example the developer database and or another message that may be received and or retrieved by the developer entity e.g. a message in an application that may support communication between the developer entity and the application server through for example an API and or on line e.g. web browser interface .

The components of the application server such as for example the main processor the memory the communication subsystem the developer registration subsystem and or the AMS may be implemented in an integrated or a distributed system. An integrated system may be implemented for example on one computer server machine or device where the integrated system may be configured to perform some or all of the functions features and or operations of the main processor the memory the communication subsystem the developer registration subsystem and or the AMS as described herein. A distributed system may be implemented with multiple components e.g. computers servers machines and or devices where each of the multiple components may be configured to perform some or all of the functions features and or operations of the main processor the memory the communication subsystem the developer registration subsystem and or the AMS as described herein. Each function feature and or operation may be implemented on one or more of the components of the distributed system. For example a specific feature function and or operation may be implemented on one component of the distributed system or it may be implemented across multiple components of the distributed system.

The application and or may comprise data that may be processed by an application server such as for example the application server and or by an electronic device on which the application is intended to be installed used and or otherwise interacted with by a user of the electronic device. For example the application and or may be a software program e.g. game personal application business application social networking application etc. that may be installed on an electronic device and may be accessed and or interacted with by a user of the electronic device. The application and or may comprise data and or information that may be intended for example only for the application server only for the electronic device and or both for the application server and the electronic device. For example the application and or may comprise data and or information intended for the application server that may enable the application server to evaluate the application before the application may be released by the application server to an application store.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure when an application is submitted by a developer entity such as for example the developer entity to an application server such as for example the application server for release in an application store the application server may analyze and or process the application and or application data to determine whether the application and or the application data may comprise one or more sample application screenshots such as for example the original sample application screenshot and or .

The application server may for each sample application screenshot determine whether the sample application screenshot has a correct orientation. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the application server may determine that for example the orientation of the sample application screenshot e.g. and or is incorrect. In this regard the application server may determine the correct orientation of the sample application screenshot.

Referring to the application server may in task perform an initial face recognition on the original sample application screenshot . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the application server may determine based on for example the initial face recognition that the orientation of the original sample application screenshot is incorrect.

Referring to the application server may in task perform an optical character recognition OCR on the original sample application screenshot . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the application server may determine based on for example the initial OCR that the orientation of the original sample application screenshot is incorrect.

Referring to and the application server may in task determine a correct orientation respectively for the original sample application screenshot and or .

The application server in task may rotate the original sample application screenshot and or by for example 90 degrees clockwise to obtain for example a rotated sample application screenshot and or respectively.

Referring to the application server may in task perform a subsequent face recognition on the rotated sample application screenshot . Based on the subsequent face recognition the application server may determine that no faces may be identified in the rotated sample application screenshot and may determine that the orientation of the rotated sample application screenshot is incorrect. The application server may repeat tasks and until for example a face can be identified in for example the rotated sample application screenshot from the subsequent face recognition .

Referring to the application server may in task perform a subsequent OCR on the rotated sample application screenshot . Based on the subsequent OCR the application server may determine that no text may be identified in the rotated sample application screenshot and may determine that the orientation of the rotated sample application screenshot is incorrect. The application server may repeat tasks and until for example text can be identified in for example the rotated sample application screenshot from the subsequent OCR .

In example step an optical character recognition OCR and or face recognition function may be performed on a screenshot of an application. In this regard the screenshot may be analyzed for text and or facial feature content respectively.

In example step a determination may be made whether an orientation of the screenshot is correct. The determination may be based on for example the OCR and or face recognition function performed in the example step . In this regard if text and or facial feature content was identified in the example step the screenshot orientation may be determined to be correct. If for example no text or facial feature content was identified in the example step the screenshot orientation may be determined to be incorrect. In an event the orientation of the screenshot may be correct the example steps end. In an event the orientation of the screenshot may not be correct the example steps continue at the example step .

In example step the screenshot may be rotated by a pre determined number of degrees. For example the screenshot may be rotated by 90 degrees clockwise or counterclockwise.

In example step a subsequent OCR and or face recognition function may be performed on the rotated screenshot e.g. the screenshot rotated by a pre determined number of degrees in the example step . The subsequent OCR and or face recognition function may be performed similarly to the initial OCR and or face recognition function as described with respect to the example step .

In example step a determination may be made whether an orientation of the rotated screenshot is correct. The determination may proceed as in the example step . In an event the orientation of the screenshot may be correct the example steps continue at the example step .

In an event the orientation of the screenshot may not be correct the example steps return to the example step . The example steps through may continue until for example a predetermined number of rotations e.g. as in the example step has been performed and or until an occurrence of another pre defined criterion.

In example step a notification may be sent to a party associated with the application such as for example a developer entity e.g. developer entity . The notification may comprise data and or information indicative whether the screenshot orientation was determined to be correct whether the screenshot orientation may need to be adjusted by the party e.g. through a manual and or an automatic method that may be provided as part of the notification and or whether the screenshot orientation was automatically adjusted based on the determination that the originally submitted screenshot orientation was incorrect in which case the notification may also include for example a method to reverse the adjustment.

Other implementations may provide a computer readable medium and or storage medium and or a machine readable medium and or storage medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for screenshot orientation detection.

Accordingly the present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present method and or system may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other system adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip.

The present method and or system may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

