---

title: Terminal apparatus, advertisement display control apparatus, and advertisement display method
abstract: Provided is a terminal apparatus including a display unit, an acquisition unit, a detection unit, and a display control unit. The acquisition unit acquires advertisement information from an advertisement delivery apparatus. The detection unit detects a scroll state of a page displayed on the display unit. The display control unit sets an initial display position of the advertisement information to a predetermined position of the page in a case where the page is not scrolling and which sets the initial display position of the advertisement information to a predetermined display position of the display unit in a case where the page is scrolling.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384503&OS=09384503&RS=09384503
owner: YAHOO JAPAN CORPORATION
number: 09384503
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130801
---
The present application claims priority to and incorporates by reference the entire contents of Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 209419 filed in Japan on Sep. 24 2012.

The present invention relates to a terminal apparatus an advertisement display control apparatus and an advertisement display method.

A large amount of information has been disclosed on the Internet. In many cases users use search sites to search for information. In the search sites advertisement delivery called search advertising may be performed.

Such a type of advertisement delivery is performed for example by presenting a user with a search result page including advertisement information according to a search keyword designated by the user for example refer to Japanese Laid open Patent Publication No. 2010 211777 .

However for example since a display unit of a mobile type terminal apparatus such as a smart phone is relatively smaller than a display unit of a general personal computer in many cases a search result page is not included in a display area of the display unit.

In the case of such a page a user of the terminal apparatus views an area of the page which is not displayed on the display unit by performing scroll manipulation. Therefore if the user performs the scroll manipulation until advertisement information constituting the page is acquired by the terminal apparatus and is displayed on the display unit the advertisement information may not appear in the display area of the display unit and the user may not recognize the advertisement information. This is not limited to a search result page or a mobile type terminal apparatus. If advertisement information is set in a page which is not included in the display area of the display unit the same problem may occur.

According to the exemplary embodiment a terminal apparatus includes a display unit an acquisition unit a detection unit and a display control unit. The acquisition unit acquires advertisement information from an advertisement delivery apparatus. The detection unit detects a scroll state of a page displayed on the display unit. The display control unit sets an initial display position of the advertisement information acquired by the acquisition unit to a predetermined position of the page in a case where the page is not scrolling and which sets the initial display position of the advertisement information acquired by the acquisition unit to a predetermined display position of the display unit in a case where the page is scrolling.

The above and other objects features advantages and technical and industrial significance of this invention will be better understood by reading the following detailed description of presently preferred embodiments of the invention when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Hereinafter embodiments of a terminal apparatus an advertisement display control apparatus an advertisement display method and a non transitory computer readable storage medium according to the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the drawings. In addition the terminal apparatus the advertisement display control apparatus the advertisement display method and the non transitory computer readable storage medium according to the present invention are not limited by the embodiments. In addition hereinafter a database is referred to as a DB .

First an advertisement display process according to an embodiment will be described. is a diagram illustrating the advertisement display process according to the embodiment. An information delivery apparatus an advertisement delivery apparatus and a terminal apparatus illustrated in are connected to a communication network such as the Internet to communicate with each other through a communication network for example by access with designated URL Uniform Resource Locator . Although the URL is exemplified in the description herein information for specifying resources is not limited to the URL.

In the advertisement display process according to the embodiment the terminal apparatus acquires data of an advertisement display program from the advertisement delivery apparatus corresponding to an example of an advertisement display control apparatus . The advertisement display program is a program which is incorporated in a browser of the terminal apparatus and is called an applet . The terminal apparatus displays advertisement information acquired from the advertisement delivery apparatus based on the advertisement display program on a display unit . Hereinafter an example of the advertisement display process will be described.

If a user of the terminal apparatus inputs a search keyword in a search page displayed on the display unit by the browser and executes search a page request is transmitted from the terminal apparatus to the information delivery apparatus Step S . Although a search result page hereinafter sometimes simply referred to as a page request according to a search keyword is transmitted herein a page request with designated URL may be transmitted.

If the information delivery apparatus receives the page request from the terminal apparatus the information delivery apparatus performs a page delivery process Step S . More specifically the information delivery apparatus extracts Q A data according to the search keyword included in the page request from a Q A database and outputs data of the search result page including the extracted Q A data. Therefore the data of the search result page is transmitted to the terminal apparatus step S . In addition the Q A data is a set of question data and answer data.

If the terminal apparatus acquires the data of the search result page from the information delivery apparatus the terminal apparatus executes a page display process. In the page display process the terminal apparatus displays the search result page on the display unit . An address of the advertisement display program is included in the data of the search result page and the terminal apparatus transmits the program request to the advertisement delivery apparatus based on the URL Step S .

If the advertisement delivery apparatus receives the program request from the terminal apparatus the advertisement delivery apparatus executes a program delivery process Step S and delivers data of the advertisement display program according to the program request to the terminal apparatus Step S .

In addition the URL of the advertisement information is included in the data of the search result page and the terminal apparatus transmits an advertisement request to the advertisement delivery apparatus based on the URL Step S . If the advertisement delivery apparatus receives the advertisement request from the terminal apparatus the advertisement delivery apparatus executes an advertisement delivery process Step S and delivers data of the advertisement information according to the advertisement request to the terminal apparatus Step S . The advertisement information is advertisement information which is in correspondence to the search keyword included in the page request.

The advertisement display program acquired from the advertisement delivery apparatus is incorporated into the browser of the terminal apparatus . The terminal apparatus executes the advertisement display program so as to execute the advertisement display process Step S . In the advertisement display process when the terminal apparatus displays the advertisement information acquired from the advertisement delivery apparatus the terminal apparatus detects a scroll state of the search result page in the display unit .

In the case where the search result page is not scrolling the terminal apparatus sets an initial display position of the advertisement information acquired from the advertisement delivery apparatus to a predetermined position in the search result page. Information indicating an initial display position of the advertisement information is included in the data of the search result page. In an example of a search result page illustrated in a front area of a page is set to an initial display position of the advertisement information and the advertisement information is displayed in the front area of the search result page.

On the other hand in the case where the search result page is scrolling the terminal apparatus sets the initial display position of the advertisement information acquired from the advertisement delivery apparatus to a predetermined display position of the display unit . Namely the terminal apparatus sets the initial display position of the advertisement information by using a position in the display area of the display unit as a reference rather than using a position in the search result page as a reference. Therefore the advertisement information is displayed to be overlapped on the search result page. In an example of a search result page illustrated in the initial display position of the advertisement information is set in the upper area of the display area of the display unit .

In the case where the search result page is scrolling if the display position of the advertisement information set in the data of the search result page is set to the initial display position of the advertisement information the advertisement information may not be displayed on the display area of the terminal apparatus so that there is a problem in that advertisement display cannot be appropriately performed. On the other hand in the advertisement display process according to the embodiment in the case where the search result page is scrolling the initial display position of the advertisement information is set to the predetermined display position of the display unit .

In this manner even in the case where the search result page is scrolling since the advertisement information is located in the display area of the display unit the terminal apparatus can allow the user of the terminal apparatus to recognize the advertisement information. Therefore the advertisement display can be appropriately performed.

In addition in the above description an example where the advertisement delivery apparatus as an advertisement display control apparatus provides the advertisement display program to the terminal apparatus is described. However the advertisement display program may be provided from the information delivery apparatus . In addition the search result page where the advertisement display program is written in a script may be transmitted from the information delivery apparatus to the terminal apparatus . In this case the information delivery apparatus functions as an advertisement display control apparatus.

Hereinafter a configuration for executing the advertisement display process will be described more in detail with reference to .

An example of a configuration of an information display system according to the embodiment will be described with reference to . is a diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of the information display system according to the embodiment.

As illustrated in an information display system according to the embodiment is configured to include the information delivery apparatus the advertisement delivery apparatus and the terminal apparatus . The information delivery apparatus the advertisement delivery apparatus and the terminal apparatus are connected to a communication network to communicate with each other through the communication network by access with designated URL.

The information delivery apparatus is managed for example by a search service provider and the advertisement delivery apparatus is managed for example by an advertisement delivery service provider. In addition the advertisement delivery apparatus may be configured to include the information delivery apparatus . In addition the advertisement delivery apparatus may be divided into an apparatus for delivering advertisement information and an apparatus for delivering an advertisement display program.

First the information delivery apparatus will be described. The information delivery apparatus is configured to include a communication unit a storage unit and a control unit . The storage unit includes a Q A database. A plurality of Q A data that is a set of question data and answer data are stored in the Q A database.

If the control unit receives the page request including the search keyword through the communication unit the control unit extracts the Q A data including the search keyword from the storage unit and transmits the data of the search result page including the extracted Q A data to the terminal apparatus .

The search result page includes the URL of the advertisement information designating the advertisement information according to the search keyword included in the page request. In addition in the case where the communication network is the Internet the search result page provided from the information delivery apparatus is a web page defined in a markup language such as HTML HyperText Markup Language .

The search result page is configured for example as illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating an example of the search result page delivered by the information delivery apparatus . A search result page illustrated in is a page of which the range in the left right direction is X to X and of which the range in the up down direction is Y to Y.

In the search result page the display position of an entry part is set in the uppermost area range of Y to Y and X to X and the display position of advertisement information is set in the second upper area range of Y to Y and X to X . In addition in the search result page display positions of 10 pieces of Q A data . . . and are set in the range of Y to Y and X to X.

Information on display content and display positions of the entry part and the Q A data to is included in the data of the search result page and in addition information on the display position and URL of the advertisement information is included in the data of the search result page . In addition herein for the simplification of the description the search result page where one piece of the advertisement information is set is described as an example. However the number of pieces or the display positions of advertisement information are not limited to the example illustrated in the search result page .

In addition in the above description the search result page including the Q A data is exemplified as the information delivered from the information delivery apparatus . However if a page includes information on the display position or URL of the advertisement information the delivered information is not limited to the Q A data. For example information on a web page associated with a search keyword may be the information delivered from the information delivery apparatus .

Next the advertisement delivery apparatus will be described. As illustrated in the advertisement delivery apparatus is configured to include a communication unit an advertisement DB a program storage unit and a control unit . The advertisement DB stores data of a plurality of pieces of advertisement information and in addition the program storage unit stores data of the advertisement display program.

In the case where the control unit receives an advertisement request from the terminal apparatus the control unit extracts the data of the advertisement information designated in the advertisement request from the advertisement DB and transmits the extracted data through the communication unit to the terminal apparatus . In addition in the case where the control unit receives a program request from the terminal apparatus the control unit reads the data of the advertisement program from the program storage unit and transmits the read data through the communication unit to the terminal apparatus .

Next the terminal apparatus will be described. As illustrated in the terminal apparatus is configured to include a communication unit a display unit a manipulation unit a storage unit and a control unit . The communication unit is a communication interface for allowing the terminal apparatus to communicate with the information delivery apparatus or the advertisement delivery apparatus through the communication network . As an example of the communication unit there is an interface such as a NIC Network Interface Card .

The display unit is a touch panel type display. The user of the terminal apparatus can performs scroll manipulation of a page displayed on the display unit by manipulating a screen of the display unit with the finger or the like. In the case where the terminal apparatus is a smart phone the display unit is for example a small sized LCD Liquid Crystal Display or an organic EL display. In addition the terminal apparatus is not limited to the smart phone but it may be for example a tablet type terminal or a desktop type terminal.

The manipulation unit includes a keyboard including keys in order to input characters numbers and space an enter key and arrow keys or a power button.

The storage unit is a storage apparatus such as a semiconductor memory device such as a RAM Random Access Memory or a flash memory or a hard disk an optical disk or the like. The storage unit stores various types of programs setting data or the like. As a program stored in the storage unit there is for example an OS Operating System or a browser program or the like. In addition the storage unit also stores the advertisement display program acquired from the advertisement delivery apparatus .

The control unit is implemented by using an integrated circuit such as ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array . In addition the control unit implements or executes functions or operations of the below described information process for example by executing a program stored in the storage unit by using an internal RAM not illustrated as a work area by a CPU Central Processing Unit an MPU Micro Processing Unit or the like.

The control unit executes the program stored in the storage unit to function as a browser unit an acquisition unit a detection unit and a display control unit as illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of the control unit of the terminal apparatus .

More specifically the control unit executes a browser program stored in the storage unit to function as the browser unit . In addition the control unit executes an advertisement display program stored in the storage unit to function as the acquisition unit the detection unit and the display control unit . In addition the configuration of the control unit is not limited to the above described configuration. Any other configuration of performing the below described information process may be used.

In addition the acquisition unit corresponds to an example of the acquisition unit the detection unit corresponds to an example of the detection unit and the display control unit corresponds to an example of the display control unit .

The browser unit acquires data of a page from the information delivery apparatus through the communication network and displays the acquired data on the display unit . Information on for example display content display position display size or the like is included in the data of the page and the browser unit generates an image of the page according to the information included in the data of the page and displays the generated image on the display unit .

In addition in the case where the URL of the content such as an image is included in the data of the page the browser unit acquires the content based on the URL through the communication network . The browser unit generates an image of the page so that the acquired content has a display position and display size defined by the data of the page.

In addition the URL of the advertisement display program is included in the data of the page delivered from the information delivery apparatus and the browser unit acquires the advertisement display program based on the URL from the advertisement delivery apparatus through the communication network and stores the acquired advertisement display program in the storage unit . The control unit executes the advertisement display program stored in the storage unit to function as the acquisition unit the detection unit and the display control unit as described above.

In addition the browser unit performs a scroll process for the page in the display unit based on the information of scroll manipulation output from the display unit or the manipulation unit . More specifically the display unit is a touch panel type display and the browser unit performs the scroll process for the page based on the information on scroll manipulation output from the display unit . In addition the scroll manipulation may be performed by using arrow keys or the like of the manipulation unit and the browser unit performs the scroll process for the page based on the information on scroll manipulation output from the manipulation unit .

The acquisition unit acquires the advertisement information from the advertisement delivery apparatus through the communication network . The advertisement information delivered from the advertisement delivery apparatus is for example information written in a markup language and is banner advertisement text advertisement or the like added with link information to a web page of an advertiser. In addition the advertisement information acquired by the acquisition unit is not limited to the information on the banner advertisement or the information on the text advertisement. For example information on moving picture advertisement may be used as the advertisement information.

The detection unit detects a scroll state of the page displayed on the display unit . As described above the browser unit performs the scroll process for the page based on the information on scroll manipulation output from the display unit or the manipulation unit and the detection unit acquires the information on the scroll process from the browser unit to detect the scroll state of the page.

In addition the detection unit may detect the scroll state of the page displayed on the display unit based on the information on scroll manipulation output from the display unit or the manipulation unit .

The display control unit sets the display position of the advertisement information acquired by the acquisition unit based on the scroll state of the page detected by the detection unit .

More specifically in the case where the page is not scrolling the display control unit sets the initial display position of the advertisement information acquired by the acquisition unit to a predetermined position of the page. The predetermined position of the page is a display position of the advertisement information defined by the data of the page delivered from the information delivery apparatus . For example in the example of the search result page illustrated in the range of Y to Y and X to X is the predetermined position of the page .

On the other hand in the case where the page is scrolling the display control unit sets the initial display position of the advertisement information acquired by the acquisition unit to the predetermined display position of the display unit and displays the advertisement information on the display unit in the state where the advertisement information is overlapped on the page. In addition instead of overlapping the advertisement information on the page the display control unit may display the advertisement information on an area other than the page displayed area in a display area of the display unit . is a diagram illustrating a display area of the display unit . As illustrated in the display area of the display unit is formed in a rectangular shape. In the case where the page is scrolling in the display control unit for example an area illustrated in is referred to as the predetermined display position of the display unit .

Herein the display position of the advertisement information when the search result page illustrated in is displayed on the display unit will be described with reference to . are diagrams illustrating an initial display position of the advertisement information and is a diagram illustrating an example of a display shape table included in the data of the advertisement display program. In addition is a diagram illustrating a display shape according to a scroll speed.

In the case where the search result page is not scrolling as illustrated in the display control unit sets the display position of the advertisement information range of Y to Y and X to X illustrated in defined by the data of the search result page to the initial display position of the advertisement information . illustrates a state where an area in the search result page illustrated in is displayed on the display unit . In addition a scroll bar informing the scroll position of the search result page is displayed on the display area of the display unit .

On the other hand in the case where the search result page is scrolling as illustrated in the display control unit sets the predetermined display position of the display unit area illustrated in to the initial display position of the advertisement information . illustrates a state where an area in the search result page illustrated in is displayed on the display unit .

In the case where the search result page is scrolling there is a case where the page setting position is outside the display area of the display unit at timing of displaying the advertisement information at the display position of the advertisement information hereinafter sometimes referred to as a page setting position defined by the data of the search result page .

In this case as long as the user of the terminal apparatus sets the scroll direction to the reverse direction the page setting position is not in the display area of the display unit . Therefore the display control unit sets the predetermined display position of the display unit hereinafter sometimes referred to as a screen setting position to the initial display position of the advertisement information . Accordingly in the case where the search result page is scrolling it is possible to appropriately display the advertisement information .

In addition in the case where scrolling of the search result page stops after the display control unit sets the initial display position of the advertisement information to the screen setting position the display control unit changes the display position of the advertisement information to the page setting position of the search result page .

For example as illustrated in if the scrolling stops from the scrolling state as illustrated in the display control unit changes the display position of the advertisement information . In the example illustrated in since the page setting position is not included in the area displayed in the display area of the display unit in the search result page the advertisement information is not displayed. In this case the user of the terminal apparatus performs scroll manipulation on the search result page upward from the state illustrated in to display the page setting position in the display area of the display unit so that the advertisement information can be displayed.

In addition in the case where the display control unit changes the display position of the advertisement information from the screen setting position to the page setting position the display control unit moves the display area of the display unit so as to fade out the advertisement information . For example in the case where the scrolling stops after the scrolling illustrated in as illustrated in the display control unit moves the advertisement information in the direction of the page setting position at a predetermined speed. With respect to the display position illustrated in since the page setting position is not included in the display area of the display unit the advertisement information disappears from the display area of the display unit and the display area of the display unit is in the display state illustrated in .

In this manner in the case where the display control unit changes the display position of the advertisement information from the screen setting position to the page setting position the display control unit moves the advertisement information to the page setting position at a predetermined speed so that the user of the terminal apparatus can easily recognize the direction of the page setting position.

In addition in the case where the display control unit changes the display position of the advertisement information from the screen setting position to the page setting position the display control unit can move the advertisement information while increasing transparency of the advertisement information . In addition in the state where the display control unit displays the advertisement information at the screen setting position the display control unit may increase transparency according to elapse of time to set the transparency to 100 so that the advertisement information may be allowed to disappear from the display area of the display unit .

In addition in the state where the display control unit displays the advertisement information at the screen setting position the display control unit may reduce the size of the advertisement information according to elapse of time to set the size to 0 so that the advertisement information may be allowed to disappear from the display area of the display unit . In addition the display control unit may reduce the size of the advertisement information and increase transparency according to elapse of time so that the advertisement information may be allowed to disappear from the display area of the display unit .

In addition even in the case where the search result page is scrolling after a predetermined display duration time elapses from the time when the display control unit displays the advertisement information at the screen setting position the display control unit sets the display position of the advertisement information to the page setting position.

If the advertisement information is displayed on the display unit for a predetermined time or more it is considered that advertising effect is obtained. On the other hand if the advertisement information continues to be displayed despite the scrolling the user of the terminal apparatus may be given an unpleasant feeling. Therefore even in the case where the scroll state continues to be maintained after a predetermined display duration time elapses from the time when the display control unit displays the advertisement information at the screen setting position the display control unit sets the display position of the advertisement information to the page setting position.

The display control unit adjusts the display duration time according to a scroll state of the search result page . For example the display control unit changes the display duration time according to a scroll speed or a scroll acceleration of the search result page .

In the case where the scroll speed is relatively low the user of the terminal apparatus carefully checks the Q A data to of the search result page so that the possibility that the user visually recognizes the advertisement information is high. Therefore in the case where the scroll speed is relatively low the display control unit sets the display duration time to be shorter than a pre defined time.

In this case a plurality of types of advertisement information is acquired from the advertisement delivery apparatus and the display control unit may select the advertisement information according to the scroll speed among the plurality of types of the advertisement information and display the selected advertisement information on the screen setting position. For example in the case where the advertisement information includes link information the display control unit selects the advertisement information of which click rate is high among the plurality of types of the advertisement information and displays the selected advertisement information . Therefore it is possible to effectively display advertisement.

On the other hand in the case where the scroll speed is relatively high since the user of the terminal apparatus is highly likely to skim read the Q A data to of the search result page the possibility that the advertisement information is visually recognized at a degree of skim reading is high. Therefore in the case where the scroll speed is relatively high the display control unit sets the display duration time to be longer than a pre defined time.

In addition in the case where the scroll speed is such a relatively high as a predetermined value or more the Q A data to of the search result page is not visually recognized and the visibility of the advertisement information is increased. Therefore the display control unit sets the display duration time to be shorter than a pre defined time. In addition even in the case where the scroll acceleration is a predetermined value or more there is a possibility that the same state may be maintained. Therefore the display control unit sets the display duration time to be shorter than a pre defined time.

In addition in the case where the search result page is scrolling the display control unit displays the advertisement information on the screen setting position in a display shape according to the scroll speed of the search result page . In this case the display control unit changes at least one of for example color shape size and transparency as the display shape. More specifically the display control unit displays the advertisement information in a display shape defined in a display shape table illustrated in on the screen setting position.

For example as illustrated in in the case where the scroll speed is relatively low the display control unit allows the advertisement information to be relatively large and displays the advertisement information on the display unit . On the other hand in the case where the scroll speed is relatively high as illustrated in the display control unit allows the advertisement information to be relatively small and displays the advertisement information on the display unit .

In this manner the display shape of the advertisement information is allowed to be changed according to the scroll speed of the search result page so that it is possible to increase the interest of the user of the terminal apparatus in the advertisement information .

In addition in the case where the scroll speed of the search result page is a predetermined threshold value or more and a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information is acquired by the acquisition unit the display control unit simultaneously displays the plurality of pieces of the advertisement information at the screen setting position.

For example a plurality of pieces of advertisement information and are acquired by the acquisition unit and in the case where the scroll speed of the search result page is relatively high as illustrated in the plurality of pieces of the advertisement information and are simultaneously displayed at the screen setting position. In this case the number of screen setting positions is set according to the number of pieces of advertisement information.

In addition in the case where the scroll speed of the search result page is less than a predetermined threshold value and a plurality of pieces of advertisement information is acquired by the acquisition unit the display control unit sequentially displays the plurality of pieces of the advertisement information on the screen setting position. In this case for example one screen setting positions is used and the plurality of pieces of the advertisement information is sequentially displayed at the screen setting position.

Next a procedure of an advertisement display process by the terminal apparatus according to the embodiment will be described. is a flowchart illustrating a page display process by the terminal apparatus according to the embodiment.

As illustrated in the control unit performs a page acquisition process for acquiring the data of the page from the information delivery apparatus through the communication unit Step S . The page acquisition process is a process performed by the browser unit . For example the browser unit acquires the search result page illustrated in from the information delivery apparatus .

Next the control unit performs a page display process for displaying the page acquired by the information delivery apparatus on the display unit Step S . The page display process is a process performed by the browser unit . For example the browser unit displays the search result page on the display unit according to the data of the search result page illustrated in .

In addition when the control unit displays the page acquired from the information delivery apparatus on the display unit the control unit performs an advertisement display process of acquiring the advertisement information designated by the data of the page from the advertisement delivery apparatus and displaying the acquired advertisement information on the display unit Step S . Therefore the information of the page including the advertisement information is displayed on the display unit .

Now the advertisement display process illustrated in Step S will be described in detail. is a flowchart illustrating the advertisement display process illustrated .

As illustrated in if the control unit of the terminal apparatus starts the advertisement display process the control unit starts detecting the scroll state Step S . Next it is determined whether or not the page displayed on the display unit is scrolling Step S .

If it is determined that the page is scrolling Yes in Step S the control unit sets the initial display position of the advertisement information to a predetermined display position screen setting position of the display unit Step S . For example the control unit sets the area of the display unit illustrated in to the predetermined display position.

Next the control unit displays the advertisement information at the position set in Step S Step S . For example in a case where the position set in step S is the area of the display unit illustrated in as illustrated in the control unit displays the advertisement information . In addition as described above the control unit changes the display shape of the advertisement information for example according to the scroll speed or the scroll acceleration.

After the control unit starts displaying the advertisement information the control unit determines whether or not scrolling stops Step S . In the process if it is determined that scrolling stops Yes in Step S the control unit allows the process to proceed to Step S.

On the other hand if it is determined that scrolling does not stop No in Step S the control unit displays the advertisement information on the display unit and then the control unit determines whether or not a predetermined time interval elapses Step S . In the process if it is determined that a predetermined time interval does not elapse No in Step S the control unit allows the process to return to Step S.

On the other hand if it is determined that a predetermined time interval elapses Yes in Step S the control unit allows the process to proceed to Step S. In Step S the control unit changes the display position of the advertisement information to a predetermined position page setting position of the page and ends the advertisement display process.

In addition in Step S if the page is determined not to be scrolling No in Step S the control unit sets the initial display position of the advertisement information to a predetermined position page setting position of the page Step S and ends the advertisement display process.

Now a process in a case where there is a plurality of pieces of advertisement information to be displayed in step S will be described. is a flowchart illustrating a display process of the advertisement information illustrated in .

As illustrated in in a case where there is a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information the control unit determines whether or not the scroll speed is a predetermined value or more Step S . In the process if it is determined that the scroll speed is a predetermined value or more Yes in Step S the control unit simultaneously displays a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information acquired from the advertisement delivery apparatus at a predetermined display position of the display unit Step S .

For example in a case where there are two pieces of the advertisement information and as a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information as illustrated in the control unit sets upper and lower areas in the display area of the display unit as predetermined display areas and displays the pieces of advertisement information and on the upper and lower areas respectively.

On the other hand if it is determined that the scroll speed is not a predetermined value or more No in Step S the control unit sequentially displays a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information acquired from the advertisement delivery apparatus at a predetermined display position of the display unit Step S . In addition the control unit may display a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information at the same predetermined display position. In addition the control unit may sequentially display a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information at different predetermined display positions.

In the above described embodiment the upper area of the page is exemplified as the display position page setting position of the advertisement information of the page delivered from the information delivery apparatus in the description. However the display position is not limited to the above described position.

For example the page setting position may be in the central area of the page or in the lower area of the page. Even in a case where the page setting position is set to any area in the case where the page is scrolling the display control unit may set the initial display position of the advertisement information to the screen setting position. For example in the case where the page is scrolling at the timing when the acquisition unit acquires the advertisement information the display control unit sets the initial display position of the advertisement information to the screen setting position. In addition in a case where the page setting position has been passed through or is passing though the display area of the display unit by the scroll of the previous page at the time when the acquisition unit acquires the advertisement information the display control unit may set the initial display position of the advertisement information to the screen setting position.

In addition the page setting positions may be set to a plurality of the areas. In this case the display control unit performs the above described advertisement display control on the advertisement information corresponding to the page setting positions. In addition the display control unit may perform different advertisement display controls on the advertisement information according to the page setting positions.

In addition in the above described embodiment the advertisement display program is configured with applets or scripts. However dedicated application where the advertisement display program is embedded in the browser or the like may be used. In this case the terminal apparatus executes the dedicated application to acquire the data of the page from the information delivery apparatus and displays the advertisement information acquired from the advertisement delivery apparatus .

In addition in the above described embodiment the page setting position is described to be fixed. However the display control unit allows the page setting position to be vibrated according to for example the scroll speed or the scroll acceleration. By doing so it is possible to increase the possibility that the user of the terminal apparatus visually recognizes the advertisement information.

In addition in the above described embodiment the acquisition unit acquires the advertisement information designated by the data of the page from the advertisement delivery apparatus . However the acquisition unit may acquire the advertisement information for example according to the scroll speed or the scroll acceleration from the advertisement delivery apparatus . By doing so it is possible to display the advertisement information according to the scroll speed or the scroll acceleration.

In addition in the above described embodiment the search advertising of displaying the advertisement information according to the search keyword on the page is described. However if the advertisement information is set in a page and the page is not in the display area of the display unit the page is not limited to the search result page . In addition the terminal apparatus is not limited to the mobile type terminal apparatus. If the page can be scrolled in a terminal apparatus a personal computer may be used as the terminal apparatus.

In addition the above described information delivery apparatus or the above described advertisement delivery apparatus may be implemented by using a plurality of server computers. In addition according to functions an external platform or the like may be called through API Application Programming Interface network computing or the like to implement the above described information delivery apparatus or the above described advertisement delivery apparatus so that the configuration thereof can be adaptively changed.

As described above the advertisement delivery apparatus according to the embodiment is configured to include the control unit an example of a program delivery unit which delivers the data of the advertisement display program to the terminal apparatus including the display unit . The advertisement display program allows the terminal apparatus to function as an acquisition unit an example of an acquisition unit which acquires the advertisement information from the advertisement delivery apparatus a detection unit an example of a detection unit which detects the scroll state of the page displayed on the display unit and a display control unit an example of a display control unit which sets the initial display position of the advertisement information acquired by the acquisition unit to the page setting position an example of the predetermined position of the page in a case where the page is not scrolling and which sets the initial display position of the advertisement information acquired by the acquisition unit to the screen setting position an example of the predetermined display position of the display unit in the case where the page is scrolling.

Therefore even in a case where scroll manipulation is performed while the page such as a search result page is displayed on the display unit the advertisement information can be displayed on the screen of the display unit according to the scroll state so that it is possible to appropriately perform the advertisement display. Particularly in a case where the terminal apparatus is a mobile terminal since the display area of the display unit is relatively small the user of the terminal apparatus may frequently perform the scroll manipulation. Even in this case it is possible to appropriately perform the advertisement display.

In addition in a case where the scrolling of the page stops after the display control unit sets the initial display position of the advertisement information to the screen setting position the display control unit changes the display position of the advertisement information to the page setting position.

Therefore in a case where the scrolling stops the advertisement information is set to be displayed at the display position set in the page so that it is possible to reduce process load of the overlap process or the like.

In addition in a case where the display control unit changes the display position of the advertisement information from the screen setting position to the page setting position after the display control unit moves the display position of the advertisement information in the display unit from the screen setting position in a predetermined direction the display control unit changes the display position of the advertisement information to the page setting position.

Therefore since the advertisement information is allowed to fade out from the display area the unpleasant feeling given to the user of the terminal apparatus can be reduced in comparison with the case where the advertisement information suddenly disappears from the display area .

In addition even in the case where the page is scrolling after a predetermined time elapses from the time when the display control unit displays the advertisement information at the screen setting position the display control unit sets the display position of the advertisement information to the page setting position.

Therefore after advertising effect is obtained by displaying the advertisement information for a predetermined time the display position of the advertisement information is set to be displayed to the page setting position so that the problem in that too much advertisement information is displayed can be avoided and the unpleasant feeling given to the user of the terminal apparatus can be reduced.

In addition the display control unit changes the predetermined time according to the scroll speed of the page.

Therefore it is possible to adjust a degree of exposure of the advertisement information according to the scroll speed of the page. For example in a case where the scroll speed is high since there is a possibility that the user is skim reading the page and is not closely watching the advertisement advertising effect can be obtained for example by increasing the advertisement display time.

In addition in the case where the page is scrolling the display control unit displays the advertisement information at the screen setting position in a display shape according to the scroll speed of the page.

Since the interest of the user of the terminal apparatus in the advertisement information is different between the cases where the scroll speed is high and low the display shape is changed corresponding to the interest of the user of the terminal apparatus so that it is possible to effectively obtain advertising effect.

In addition in a case where the scroll speed of the page is a predetermined threshold value or more and a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information is acquired by the acquisition unit the display control unit simultaneously displays a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information at the screen setting position.

In a case where the scroll speed is high since the user is skim reading the page and is not closely watching the advertisement a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information are displayed at one time so that the user s interest in the advertisement information can be increased.

In addition in a case where the scroll speed of the page is less than a predetermined threshold value and a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information is acquired by the acquisition unit the display control unit sequentially displays a plurality of pieces of the advertisement information at the screen setting position.

In a case where the scroll speed is low since the possibility that the user carefully checks the content of the page and visually recognizes the advertisement information is high the advertisement information is sequentially switched to be displayed so that it is possible to allow advertisement information to be effectively recognized.

According to an aspect of the embodiment it is possible to provide a terminal apparatus an advertisement display control apparatus an advertisement display method and a non transitory computer readable storage medium capable of obtaining an advantage in that advertisement display can be appropriately performed in the case where a page is scrolling.

Although the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments for a complete and clear disclosure the appended claims are not to be thus limited but are to be construed as embodying all modifications and alternative constructions that may occur to one skilled in the art that fairly fall within the basic teaching herein set forth.

