---

title: System and method for a third-party application to access content within a cloud-based platform
abstract: Techniques are disclosed for using a third-party application to access or edit a file within a cloud-based environment within a cloud-based platform or environment. In one embodiment, a method includes, in the cloud-based environment, responsive to detecting a request to access or edit a file using the third-party application, the file is provided for access or edit using the third-party application. The third-party application includes a user interface which is customized to enable storage of the accessed or edited file to the cloud-based environment. In some embodiments, the third-party application is allowed or restricted to store the accessed file back to the cloud-based environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413587&OS=09413587&RS=09413587
owner: BOX, INC.
number: 09413587
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130502
---
This application is entitled to the benefit of and or the right of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 641 824 entitled PLATFORM AND APPLICATION AGNOSTIC METHOD FOR SEAMLESS FILE ACCESS IN A MOBILE ENVIRONMENT filed May 2 2012 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 650 840 entitled PLATFORM AND APPLICATION AGNOSTIC METHOD FOR SEAMLESS FILE ACCESS IN A MOBILE ENVIRONMENT filed May 23 2012 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 653 876 entitled PLATFORM AND APPLICATION AGNOSTIC METHOD FOR SEAMLESS FILE ACCESS IN A MOBILE ENVIRONMENT filed May 31 2012 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. This application is therefore entitled to an effective filing date of May 2 2012.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the United States Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright 2013 Box Inc. All Rights Reserved.

With the advancements in digital technologies data proliferation and the ever increasing mobility of user platforms which enable and encourage development of third party applications have become ubiquitous in all sectors of modern society and as a result data becomes shared across multiple sources as is use of third party applications. This has become relevant with the increase of electronic and digital content being used in social settings or shared environments of digital content compared to traditional standalone personal computers and mobile devices. users.

However to date content sharing across multiple platforms using various application is lacking the capabilities that provide the third party applications with access to content or files stored in a workspace that is shared among multiple users in an intuitive and integrated manner.

The same reference numbers and any acronyms identify elements or acts with the same or similar structure or functionality throughout the drawings and specification for ease of understanding and convenience.

Techniques are disclosed for a third party application to access content stored within a cloud based platform or environment. In one embodiment a method comprises responsive to a request to access or edit a file received in the cloud based environment grant access or edit of the file using the third party application. The third party application includes a user interface which is customized to enable storage of the accessed or edited file to the cloud based environment. In some embodiments the third party application is restricted to store the accessed file back to the cloud based environment. Among other advantages embodiments disclosed herein provide both accessibility of content within a cloud based workspace to third party applications and controllability over the manner of the third party applications accesses thereby allowing the users to enjoy the benefit of freedom in choosing their own preferred programs from a wide variety of third party applications while maintaining or enhancing the security of the content stored within the cloud based workspace.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure can be but not necessarily are references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one of the embodiments.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which can be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which can be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms can be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that same thing can be said in more than one way.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms can be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any terms discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Without intent to limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles can be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

The client devices can be any system and or device and or any combination of devices systems that is able to establish a communication or a connection including wired wireless cellular connections with another device a server and or other systems such as host server and or a third party application . Client devices typically include a display and or other output functionalities to present information and data exchanged between among the devices the third party application and or the host server .

For example the client devices can include mobile hand held or portable devices or non portable devices and can be any of but not limited to a server desktop a desktop computer a computer cluster or portable devices including a notebook a laptop computer a handheld computer a palmtop computer a mobile phone a cell phone a PDA a smart phone e.g. a BlackBerry device such as BlackBerry Z10 Q10 an iPhone Nexus 4 etc. a Treo a handheld tablet e.g. an iPad iPad Mini a Galaxy Note Galaxy Note II Xoom Tablet Microsoft Surface Blackberry PlayBook Nexus 7 10 etc. a phablet e.g. HTC Droid DNA etc. a tablet PC a thin client a hand held console a hand held gaming device or console e.g. XBOX live Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation Portable etc. mobile enabled powered watch e.g. iOS Android or other platform based Google Glass a Chromebook and or any other portable mobile hand held devices etc. running on any platform or any operating system e.g. Mac based OS OS X iOS etc. Windows based OS Windows Mobile Windows 7 Windows 8 etc. Android Blackberry OS Embedded Linux platforms Palm OS Symbian platform Google Chrome OS and the like. In one embodiment the client devices host server and or the third party application e.g. a server hosting application are coupled via a network . In some embodiments the devices and host server and or third party application may be directly connected to one another.

The input mechanism on client devices can include touch screen keypad including single touch multi touch gesture sensing in 2D or 3D etc. a physical keypad a mouse a pointer a track pad motion detector e.g. including 1 axis 2 axis 3 axis accelerometer etc. a light sensor capacitance sensor resistance sensor temperature sensor proximity sensor a piezoelectric device device orientation detector e.g. electronic compass tilt sensor rotation sensor gyroscope accelerometer or a combination of the above.

Signals received or detected indicating user activity at client devices through one or more of the above input mechanism or others can be used by various users or collaborators e.g. collaborators for accessing through network a web based collaboration environment or online collaboration platform e.g. hosted by the host server . The collaboration environment or platform can have one or more collective settings for an enterprise or an organization that the users belong and can provide an user interface for the users to access such platform under the settings .

The collaboration platform or environment hosts workspaces with work items that one or more users can access e.g. view edit update revise comment download preview tag or otherwise manipulate etc. . A work item can generally include any type of digital or electronic content that can be viewed or accessed via an electronic device e.g. device . The digital content can include .pdf files .doc slides e.g. Powerpoint slides images audio files multimedia content web pages blogs etc. A workspace can generally refer to any grouping of a set of digital content in the collaboration platform. The grouping can be created identified or specified by a user or through other means. This user may be a creator user or administrative user for example.

In general a workspace can be associated with a set of users or collaborators e.g. collaborators which have access to the content included therein. The levels of access e.g. based on permissions or rules of each user or collaborator to access the content in a given workspace may be the same or may vary among the users. Each user may have their own set of access rights to every piece of content in the workspace or each user may be different access rights to different pieces of content. Access rights may be specified by a user associated with a workspace and or a user who created uploaded a particular piece of content to the workspace or any other designated user or collaborator.

In general the collaboration platform allows multiple users or collaborators to access or collaborate efforts on work items such each user can see remotely edits revisions comments or annotations being made to specific work items through their own user devices. For example a user can upload a document to a workspace for other users to access e.g. for viewing editing commenting signing off or otherwise manipulating . The user can login to the online platform and upload the document or any other type of work item to an existing workspace or to a new workspace. The document can be shared with existing users or collaborators in a workspace.

In general network over which the client devices and the host server communicate may be a cellular network a telephonic network an open network such as the Internet or a private network such as an intranet and or the extranet or any combination or variation thereof. For example the Internet can provide file transfer remote log in email news RSS cloud based services instant messaging visual voicemail push mail VoIP and other services through any known or convenient protocol such as but is not limited to the TCP IP protocol Open System Interconnections OSI FTP UPnP iSCSI NSF ISDN PDH RS 232 SDH SONET etc.

The network can be any collection of distinct networks operating wholly or partially in conjunction to provide connectivity to the client devices and the host server and may appear as one or more networks to the serviced systems and devices. In one embodiment communications to and from the client devices can be achieved by an open network such as the Internet or a private network such as an intranet and or the extranet. In one embodiment communications can be achieved by a secure communications protocol such as secure sockets layer SSL or transport layer security TLS .

In addition communications can be achieved via one or more networks such as but are not limited to one or more of WiMax a Local Area Network LAN Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a Personal area network PAN a Campus area network CAN a Metropolitan area network MAN a Wide area network WAN a Wireless wide area network WWAN or any broadband network and further enabled with technologies such as by way of example Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Personal Communications Service PCS Bluetooth WiFi Fixed Wireless Data 2G 2.5G 3G e.g. WCDMA UMTS based 3G networks 4G IMT Advanced pre 4G LTE Advanced mobile WiMax WiMax 2 WirelessMAN Advanced networks enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE General packet radio service GPRS enhanced GPRS iBurst UMTS HSPDA HSUPA HSPA HSPA UMTS TDD 1 RTT EV DO messaging protocols such as TCP IP SMS MMS extensible messaging and presence protocol XMPP real time messaging protocol RTMP instant messaging and presence protocol IMPP instant messaging USSD IRC or any other wireless data networks broadband networks or messaging protocols.

Third party applications can be located from one or more third party service application providing servers or they can be provided by third party software application vendors to run on the host server either of which may be accessed over the network e.g. in forms of web based applications . Third party applications can also be provided to the user directly and can be accessed at from via installed executed and run on the user devices . These three different configurations are illustrated in by way of example. In any of these configurations the third party applications can communicate with the host server for accessing cloud based collaboration platform storage and or services in performing their functions.

The embodiments disclosed herein recognize that with the growing prevalence of the communication networks e.g. the Internet and smart portable devices e.g. smart phones there are many third party applications that need access to a cloud based collaboration service platform and or cloud based file and content storage services in order to best facilitate an intuitive and straightforward user experience 

For example a user using a smart phone or a tablet computer may wish to run a third party software application e.g. Google QuickOffice to create or open a document save the document back to a cloud based collaboration and or storage e.g. cloud based collaboration and or storage services provided by Box Inc. repository and share it with a selected group of collaborators or in an enterprise including colleagues. One colleague as a reviewer may use another third party software application e.g. Nuance Paperport to annotate it and another colleague may use yet another third party software application e.g. Adobe Echosign to sign the document all accessing the same document on the cloud based collaboration interaction and or storage services. For another example a user of a third party service application e.g. LinkedIn Facebook or other application may want to store his or her resume and or other content on a user profile page provided by the third party service application which in turn would desirably store these files on a cloud based environment platform services e.g. collaboration and or storage services of the user.

However whether it is for collaboration or for personal use or for both existing techniques lack a user friendly integrated way for the third party applications and the users to enjoy a streamlined cloud based environment platform services e.g. collaboration editing sharing and or storage experience without multiple uploading downloading steps across multiple applications or devices which may further interrupt the user s work flow or potentially further risk a breach of security and or privacy.

For example some approaches lack the capability to provide the flexibility of using third party applications to access content stored in the cloud based workspace and the security assurances necessary toward such access for example in an enterprise setting where sensitive and or confidential documents are often involved.

One way to provide access to content stored in a cloud based collaborative environment is to allow the user and or collaborators to download a copy of the content of interest e.g. a file so as to create a local copy of the file e.g. on one of the user devices . Then the user can use a suitable third party application e.g. which may be installed on the user device as an application or may be provided as a web browser plug in that can access the application via the browser of his or her own preference to access view edit or otherwise modify the file.

However this approach relinquishes access control over the file by simply allowing the file to be downloaded and copied without technical restrictions it puts heavy reliance on the user and or the third party application to store back the file to the cloud based platform to control the access to the local copy of the file and to delete any copies created for during the access.

To overcome the above mentioned drawbacks One to provide access to a cloud based collaborative environment is for a provider e.g. who hosts the host server of the cloud based environment to also provide integrated editing tools typically in forms of web based applications e.g. accessible via a web browser . However this approach provides security and access controllability at the expense of flexibility indeed the users are forced to accept and use whichever applications or tools developed and or deployed by the cloud service provider. Oftentimes functionalities of these tools are simple and can be limited as compared to other third party applications that are professionally developed.

Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure provide systems and methods that provide techniques for a third party application to access content stored within a cloud based platform or environment in an integrated secure manner. In accordance with some embodiments a system e.g. host server or user devices implementing the techniques disclosed herein is provided that enables e.g. through a software framework an application programming interface a software library and or an agent application the third party application to connect to the host server which hosts the cloud based platform for accessing content that is stored in the cloud e.g. in cloud repository .

In some embodiments when a user desires to access content e.g. a file stored in the cloud based platform using the third party application the user can first select to access the file in the cloud based platform. For example the user can utilize a user interface e.g. in forms of a mobile application installed on user devices or in forms of webpages accessible by a browser of the cloud based environment to select the file of his or her interest. For purposes of discussion assume the user interface is provided through a mobile application. Then when the user selects the file in the user interface for accessing e.g. for viewing editing signing etc. the mobile application can prompt the user to choose which third party application that he or she desires to use. Thereafter the user devices launches the third party application which can communicate with the mobile application so that the third party application can access the file through the mobile application. Some embodiments provide that the third party application is launched on the user devices using a controlled launching interface that is different from an application launching interface provided by an operating system of the user devices .

More specifically according to some implementations the mobile application can handling authentication navigation and upload download of the file s of the user s interest. From one practical standpoint the mobile application reduces the necessary effort for a developer of the third party application to build out the functionality and user interface for accessing the cloud based platform environment workspace. From another practical standpoint the controlled launching interface also provides a convenient means for the developers of the third party applications to advertise their software.

The users viewing files in the cloud based environment e.g. via user interface as provided by the mobile application can browse install choose select and or operate third party applications e.g. via the controlled launching interface that incorporate the software library or framework that implements the disclosed techniques. The controlled launching interface can further filter the selection based on the type of file the user is trying to access. Among others by providing a consistent user interface and level of security across the third party applications accessing the cloud based platform the software library or framework which implements the techniques disclosed herein provides flexibility to the user in choosing own preferred third party applications improves user experience and reduces administrative burdens of those information technology IT personnel.

It is noted that the aforementioned embodiments with respect to the mobile application and or the software library framework are merely some aspects of the present disclosed techniques. More implementation details regarding the host server and the third party application are discussed below.

The web based platform for collaborating on projects or jointly working on documents can be used by individual users and shared among collaborators. In addition the collaboration platform can be deployed in an organized setting including but not limited to a company e.g. an enterprise setting a department in a company an academic institution a department in an academic institution a class or course setting or any other types of organizations or organized setting.

When deployed in an organizational setting multiple workspaces e.g. workspace A B C can be created to support different projects or a variety of work flows. Each workspace can have its own associate work items. For example workspace A can be associated with work items workspace B can be associated with work items and workspace N can be associated with work items . The work items and can be unique to each workspace but need not be. For example a particular word document can be associated with only one workspace e.g. workspace A or it can be associated with multiple workspaces e.g. Workspace A and workspace B etc. .

In general each workspace has a set of users or collaborators associated with it. For example workspace A is associated with multiple users or collaborators . In some instances workspaces deployed in an enterprise can be department specific. For example workspace B can be associated with department and some users shown as example user A and workspace N can be associated with departments and and users shown as example user B .

Each user associated with a workspace can generally access the work items associated with the workspace. The level of access depends on permissions associated with the specific workspace and or with a specific work item. Permissions can be set for the workspace or set individually on a per work item basis. For example the creator of a workspace e.g. one of user A who creates workspace B can set one permission setting applicable to all work items for other associated users and or users associated with the affiliate department for example. Creator user A can also set different permission settings for each work item which can be the same for different users or varying for different users.

In each workspace A B . . . N when an action is performed on a work item by a given user or any other activity is detected in the workspace other users in the same workspace can be notified e.g. in real time or in near real time or not in real time . Activities which trigger real time notifications can include by way of example but not limitation adding deleting or modifying collaborators in the workspace uploading downloading adding deleting a work item in the workspace creating a discussion topic in the workspace.

In some embodiments items or content downloaded or edited can cause notifications to be generated. Such notifications can be sent to relevant users to notify them of actions surrounding a download an edit a change a modification a new file a conflicting version an upload of an edited or modified file.

In one embodiment in a user interface to the web based collaboration platform where notifications are presented users can via the same interface create action items e.g. tasks and delegate the action items to other users including collaborators pertaining to a work item for example. The collaborators can be in the same workspace A or the user can include a newly invited collaborator. Similarly in the same user interface where discussion topics can be created in a workspace e.g. workspace A B or N etc. actionable events on work items can be created and or delegated assigned to other users such as collaborators of a given workspace or other users. Through the same user interface task status and updates from multiple users or collaborators can be indicated and reflected. In some instances the users can perform the tasks e.g. review or approve or reject etc. via the same user interface.

Each of users and can individually use multiple different devices to access and or manipulate work items in the workspace with which they are associated with. For example users can be collaborators on a project to which work items are relevant. Since the work items are hosted by the collaboration environment e.g. a cloud based environment each user can access the work items anytime and from any physical location using any device e.g. including devices they own or any shared public loaner device .

Work items to be edited or viewed can be accessed from the workspace . Users can also be notified of access edit modification and or upload related actions performed on work items by other users or any other types of activities detected in the workspace . For example if user modifies a document one or both of the other collaborators and can be notified of the modification in real time or near real time or not in real time. The notifications can be sent through any of all of the devices associated with a given user in various formats including one or more of email SMS or via a pop up window in a user interface in which the user uses to access the collaboration platform. In the event of multiple notifications each notification can be depicted preferentially e.g. ordering in the user interface based on user preferences and or relevance to the user e.g. implicit or explicit .

For example a notification of a download access read write edit or uploaded related activities can be presented in a feed stream among other notifications through a user interface on the user device according to relevancy to the user determined based on current or recent activity of the user in the web based collaboration environment.

In one embodiment the notification feed stream further enables users to create or generate actionable events e.g. as task which are or can be performed by other users or collaborators e.g. including admin users or other users not in the same workspace either in the same workspace or in some other workspace. The actionable events such as tasks can also be assigned or delegated to other users via the same user interface.

For example a given notification regarding a work item can be associated with user interface features allowing a user to assign a task related to the work item e.g. to another user admin user creator user or another user . In one embodiment a commenting user interface or a comment action associated with a notification can be used in conjunction with user interface features to enable task assignment delegation and or management of the relevant work item or work items in the relevant workspaces in the same user interface.

Now with reference to both techniques for a third party application to access content stored within a cloud based platform or environment in an integrated secure manner are described in fuller detail.

As previously mentioned when user or his her collaborators desire to access content e.g. a work item stored in the workspace using a third party application e.g. application the user can send a request to access the work item by first selecting to open the file in workspace using a user interface e.g. interface of the workspace . According to some embodiments the user interface is provided via a mobile application which can be installed on user devices . In some other embodiments the user interface is web based and is accessible by a web browser on user devices .

In some of those embodiments that include the mobile application the selected work item is downloaded to the user devices and the mobile application has access control over the downloaded work item . For example the mobile application can store the work item on the device or in a memory space e.g. a cache a RAM or a Flash memory on the devices and limits access to the device or the memory space that stores the work item so as to prevent unauthorized reading of editing to or modifying of the work item . Unauthorized access can include an access from any application not using an application programming interface API or a software library framework that is provided the provider of workspace and or an access not granted or otherwise controlled by the mobile application. Alternatively the mobile application can directly access the work item in workspace by temporarily caching the at least partially download file that includes the content of work item a well known technique that can also be employed in some of those embodiments where the user interface is web based.

Additionally the mobile application can launch the third party application using a controlled launching interface that is different from an application launching interface provided by an operating system of the user devices so that additional functionalities can be provided. In some embodiments the mobile application can prompt e.g. via the controlled launching interface the user to select which third party application the user wishes to use for accessing or content editing. The selection prompted can include for example a plurality of applications already installed on user devices and or can include one or more suggested applications for the user to download and install. Further the selection can be based on a type e.g. a documentation .doc a presentation slide .ppt or a video clip .avi of the work item that the user currently selects for accessing.

Then the mobile application provides e.g. in response to a request sent by the launched third party application via the provided API or the software library framework or automatically as a part of the controlled launching mechanisms of the user interface the file to the third party application for one or more actions e.g. accesses or edits to be performed on the file by the third party application and in the meantime the mobile application also restricts the third party application to store the accessed file or content back to the workspace . In some embodiments the mobile application restricts the third party application by an operating system OS level hook or the API software library framework restricts the third party application so that any sharing or saving mechanisms of the third party application other than storing back to the workspace is prohibited. For purposes of discussion herein a software hook or hooking includes various suitable techniques known to a person having ordinary skill in the art to alter or augment the behavior of the OS and of the third party applications by intercepting function calls or messages and or events passed between components of the OS and the third party applications .

Further in some embodiments the third party applications include a user interface which is customized to enable storage of the accessed file e.g. work item back to the cloud based environment e.g. workspace . One example of this customized user interface which enables the third party application to store back accessed content to the workspace is illustrated in which includes a partial screenshot of the third party application . The third party application shown in includes a third party application toolbar which in turn includes a designated selectable button to enable the store back. In some implementations the toolbar is customized so that no other navigation or option e.g. save locally save to another location or share via email etc. is available. In some implementations the third party application is provided in a customized view and the customized view constrains the third party application to save the content back to the workspace .

After the user accesses or edits the work item using the third party application e.g. provided in a customized view and or with a customized toolbar and after the user selects the designated button the mobile application retrieves the work item from the third party application . Additionally all the metadata for example tags or other data which characterize the work item such as who the author and collaborators are or version histories are retrieved back along with the work item . The metadata can also include information about the file or work item s location and its storage in the cloud based platform such as workspace provided by the host server including for example folder identifier ID file ID folder path to the file file name folder name and or any other identifying information. Additionally the metadata can include information about how to control the data for security purposes including for example whether the file or the work item can be stored in the third party application or whether the file or work item needs to be sent back to the workspace immediately without leaving any temporary or cache copies. Another example of such information is whether the file can be shared out to other third party applications. In some embodiments copies created by the third party application during the access if any are deleted after the edited or accessed work item is retrieved e.g. based on the information contained in metadata . According to one or more embodiments the retrieval is performed using the software library provided by the provider of workspace .

After the mobile application retrieves the work item it can manage the upload back to a host server e.g. host server which hosts the workspace . For example the mobile application can open an upload dialog view pointing a folder the user originally stores the work item . The user then selects upload and the work item is stored back to the workspace through the mobile application. In some embodiments the mobile application can determine whether the server is accessible. If the server is determined accessible then the mobile application transmits the retrieved work item to the server and deletes the memory space on the user devices that originally stores the work item . If the server is determined inaccessible then the mobile application retains the retrieved work item from the device or in the memory space of the device until the server becomes accessible.

In this way the mobile application implementing the techniques disclosed herein acts as a mediator between the workspace and the third party applications manages uploads and downloads and ensures that file transfer happens securely through the software API library framework provided by the provider of workspace . As said above the disclosed techniques grants the third party applications access to content of the cloud based platform and ensures security by providing no sharing or saving mechanism other than storage back to the cloud based platform to the third party application . The disclosed techniques also include deletion of files on user devices once the files are retrieved and transferred back to the cloud based platform. Also since upload management such as all uploading activities errors and retries are controlled and performed by the mobile application developers of the third party applications can benefit from the reduced workload in designing such uploading functionalities.

In another aspect of the present disclosure the disclosed techniques include providing the third party application with access to the cloud based collaborative environment e.g. workspace where the third party application is provided to the users as a web based application e.g. accessible via a web browser . The third party application can be running on the host server or on a separate third party application server.

In some embodiments a system implementing the disclosed techniques can responsive to a request to access or edit a work item in the workspace grant access of the work item to the third party application . The request of access or edit of the file is from any one of a collaborator of the file. The third party application can include a user interface e.g. toolbar which is customized to enable storage of the accessed or edited work item to the cloud based environment such as workspace .

More specifically in some embodiments the third party application is integrated with the workspace such that the work item accessed or edited using the third party application through the workspace is restricted to be stored back to the workspace after the access or edit. In one or more embodiments the work item is retrieved from the third party application after the work item is accessed or edited to be viewed via a web application to the workspace . The storage of the accessed or edited file or work item to the cloud based environment or workspace includes metadata.

Moreover according to some embodiments after the access or the edit using the third party application the work item is uploaded to the cloud based workspace for storage. During or after the access or the edit of the file using the third party application sharing or saving mechanisms of the third party application is prohibited by the cloud based environment.

In some examples copies of the file not stored in the cloud based environment after the access or the edit are deleted. Additionally or alternatively the cloud based environment can manage uploads of files accessed and edited using the third party application back to the cloud based environment. In some examples the cloud based environment can also manage error handling of file access or file edits using the third party application .

Further in some embodiments disclosed herein the third party application can be selected by the user of the cloud based environment among multiple third party applications available for selection in the cloud based environment. In addition the third party application can be authored by a partnering entity of the provider of the cloud based platform. In a mutually beneficial manner those third party applications which adhere to guidelines and or policies in implementing secured access of the cloud based platform e.g. by using API software library software framework as provided by the cloud service provider can get promoted or advertised by the provider of such cloud based platform. As an option the third party application can be provided within a view e.g. similar to the interface as shown in which constrains the third party application to save the content back to an original location of the file.

In yet another aspect of the present disclosure an option is provided in a user interface of the third party application for accessing the cloud based platform. An example of such option is illustrated as option in screenshot of . As shown in the user interface of third party application is customized to include the option to save content accessed using the third party application to the cloud based platform. In response to activation of the option the mobile application receives the file from the third party application e.g. which is installed on user devices as a mobile application or is provided as a web based application . This technique is especially useful in those embodiments where the user interface is provided via the mobile application such as the one described above and when the user desires to edit and upload a local file to the cloud based platform such as workspace in an integrated secure manner. In some of these embodiments the mobile application manages the uploading the file to the cloud based platform e.g. determining whether a server hosting the cloud based platform is accessible and corresponding actions in response to results from the determination in a similar manner described above.

Additionally in some embodiments if the option is selected by the user and yet the mobile application is not installed on the user s device then a link is populated or presented to the user to prompt the user to install the mobile application so that the uploading can be handled.

Depending on the application in some alternative embodiments the user interface of the third party can still limit the third party application to save the content accessed using the third party application to the workspace or a server hosting the third party application . In some implementations the user interface prevents sharing of the content accessed using the third party application besides saving the content. The user interface of the third party application can be customized using tools provided by the cloud based platform. Additionally or alternatively the third party application is provided within a view by the cloud based environment and the view constrains the third party application to save the content back to an original location of the file.

In this way the users can enjoy the flexibility in selecting the third party applications they so prefer which potentially enables the users to perform a wider variety of tasks on the files from a location and or a device of their preference. Also because the files are stored and managed and or controlled in the cloud based platform business enterprise users or administrators can also enjoy the security assurances from having unified standardized and integrated access controls over content stored in the cloud based platform.

First with reference to the user e.g. user selects to open or access the file e.g. work item using a user interface e.g. interface of the cloud based environment e.g. workspace which can be hosted by a server e.g. host server . The interface can be generated by an agent application e.g. a mobile application or a web application of the workspace and has access thereto. Then the user may select which third party application e.g. application that the user wants to use. In some embodiments the selection made available to the user is filtered based on a type of the work item . In some embodiments the selection can be made automatically without user input or can be made based on a prior input from the user an administrator e.g. administrator or from other suitable sources. In some embodiments the selection menu for selecting which third party application to launch is a controlled launching interface that is separate from an application launching interface provided by an operating system OS of the user s devices e.g. devices devices .

Then the agent receives a request to access the work item stored in the workspace . The request can be made from the third party application or the file opening process can be made automatic so that no express request from the third party application is necessary e.g. the request can be made from OS calls or from other suitable mechanisms . In all cases in response to the request to access the work item in the workspace the agent grants access of the work item to the third party application . In some embodiments the third party application includes a user interface e.g. a third party application toolbar which includes a designated button which is customized to enable storage of the accessed work item back to the workspace . In some embodiments the agent restricts the third party application to store the accessed work item back to the workspace . The restriction can be performed for example by an OS level hook or by other suitable means.

After the third party application performs accesses or edits to the work item the agent retrieves the work item from the third party application . In some embodiments the agent deletes copies created by the third party application during the access. Next the agent uploads the retrieved work item to the host server that hosts the workspace .

First with reference to an agent application e.g. a mobile application or a web application of the cloud based platform e.g. workspace can provide an option e.g. option in a user interface of a third party application e.g. application for accessing the workspace . Examples of the providing include any kind of suitable internal or external communication channels between the agent and the third party application including for example an application programming interface API a software library a software framework which the third party application can adopt and so forth. In some embodiments the user interface of third party application is customized to include the option to save content accessed using the third party application to the workspace which is hosted by a server e.g. host server .

Then in response to activation of the option the agent receives a file from the third party application . Next the agent uploads the received file to the host server that hosts the workspace . Additionally or alternatively if the option is activated and if the agent is not present then a link is presented to the user e.g. user to install the agent to handle the uploading.

Continuing with the examples discussed with respect to processes and in some embodiments the agent can employ process of when the agent uploads the retrieved or received file s to the host server .

First the agent determines whether the host server hosting the workspace is accessible. If the host server is determined accessible then the agent transmits the retrieved or received file s to the host server . In addition the agent deletes the file the device or from a memory space of the client s user devices that stores the file.

On the other hand if the host server is determined inaccessible then the agent retains the file on the user device or in the memory space of the client s user devices until the host server becomes accessible.

Overall the techniques disclosed herein provide both accessibility of content within a cloud based workspace to third party applications and controllability over the manner of the third party applications accesses thereby allowing the users to enjoy the freedom and benefit of choosing their own preferred programs from a wide variety of third party applications while maintaining or enhancing the security of the content stored within the cloud based workspace.

In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or can be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine can operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine can be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a user device a tablet a phablet a laptop computer a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a thin client device a cellular telephone an iPhone an iPad a Blackberry a processor a telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge a console a hand held console a hand held gaming device a music player any portable mobile hand held device or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

While the machine readable medium or machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the presently disclosed technique and innovation.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processing units or processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations to execute elements involving the various aspects of the disclosure.

Moreover while embodiments have been described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the disclosure applies equally regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

Further examples of machine readable storage media machine readable media or computer readable storage media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links.

The network interface device enables the machine to mediate data in a network with an entity that is external to the host server through any known and or convenient communications protocol supported by the host and the external entity. The network interface device can include one or more of a network adaptor card a wireless network interface card a router an access point a wireless router a switch a multilayer switch a protocol converter a gateway a bridge bridge router a hub a digital media receiver and or a repeater.

The network interface device can include a firewall which can in some embodiments govern and or manage permission to access proxy data in a computer network and track varying levels of trust between different machines and or applications. The firewall can be any number of modules having any combination of hardware and or software components able to enforce a predetermined set of access rights between a particular set of machines and applications machines and machines and or applications and applications for example to regulate the flow of traffic and resource sharing between these varying entities. The firewall can additionally manage and or have access to an access control list which details permissions including for example the access and operation rights of an object by an individual a machine and or an application and the circumstances under which the permission rights stand.

Other network security functions can be performed or included in the functions of the firewall can be for example but are not limited to intrusion prevention intrusion detection next generation firewall personal firewall etc. without deviating from the novel art of this disclosure.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number can also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above detailed description of embodiments of the disclosure is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the teachings to the precise form disclosed above. While specific embodiments of and examples for the disclosure are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the disclosure as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments can perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks can be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks can be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks can instead be performed in parallel or can be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations can employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the disclosure provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that can be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure.

These and other changes can be made to the disclosure in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain embodiments of the disclosure and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the teachings can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system can vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the subject matter disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosure should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the disclosure with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the disclosure encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the disclosure under the claims.

While certain aspects of the disclosure are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the disclosure in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the disclosure is recited as a means plus function claim under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 other aspects can likewise be embodied as a means plus function claim or in other forms such as being embodied in a computer readable medium. Any claim intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 begins with the words means for . Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the disclosure.

