---

title: System and method for determining audience characteristics of a music concert based on mobile phone tracking and mobile data transmissions
abstract: A concert profiling server (CPS) obtains and analyzes information about a venue hosting a music concert and mobile phone location information related to the audience members attending the concert. Based on this information, the CPS determines the size of the audience in attendance. The CPS also obtains and analyzes sentiment information related to audience members at the concert with which the CPS determines the audience's sentiment toward the concert as favorable or unfavorable. The CPS further obtains and analyzes other information with which it makes a profile of the demographics of the audience and the audience members' levels of engagement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09326099&OS=09326099&RS=09326099
owner: Popular Metrics, Inc.
number: 09326099
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130109
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 631 702 filed Jan. 10 2012. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 927 030 filed Nov. 5 2010 which claimed the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 280 244 filed Nov. 2 2009 which are incorporated herein by reference. This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 322 625 filed Feb. 4 2009 which claimed the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 065 284 filed Feb. 11 2008 which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates generally to the field of mobile geolocation and mobile based applications. It pertains specifically to a system and method for determining audience characteristics of a music concert based on the analysis of mobile phone tracking and mobile data transmissions. In the preferred embodiment the system tracks and analyzes mobile data activity and transmissions providing audience characteristics of a music concert including but not limited to demographics sentiment engagement popularity and segmentation.

The conventional means of determining the audience size at a music concert apart from counting people who attend is to count the number of tickets sold. Information on ticket sales is sometimes available from ticket sales service providers such as TicketMaster. Yet counting tickets can be impractical. Some venues particularly smaller ones may not use an accessible ticket sales service like TicketMaster or may not sell tickets at all. Even if ticket sales were accessible audience size may not reflect ticket sales if some ticket holders do not attend or some tickets are given away and not accounted for in sales. Moreover tickets sales alone provide little or no information about the concert for example an audience s sentiment about the concert.

Meanwhile mobile phone use has become nearly ubiquitous. By the end of 2008 for example there were more than 270 million cell phone subscriptions in the United States which represents about 87 of the total U.S. population according to the International Association for the Wireless Telecommunications Industry. With the improvement of mobile phone tracking technology and the increasing incorporation of global positioning system GPS technology into mobile phones the field of mobile data analytics has emerged which uses location information to understand the behavior of mobile phone users often in real time.

A number of research efforts and companies have been formed to exploit this new field. SenseNetworks for example is a pioneering company in the field of mobile data analytics. It tracks the location of mobile phone users in real time segments them into groups based on common behaviors and locations and makes predictions about future behavior. One of its applications called CitySense tracks the overall activity of a city based on location data and indicates the hotspots of activity such as nightclubs and other venues wherein activity is defined essentially as the collective presence of active mobile phones at a location. The level of activity of a venue is gauged relative to its historical activity as well as the activity observed at other venues. However while CitySense application tracks the number of mobile devices at a venue it makes no determination of the size or sentiment of an audience attending a concert at a venue the audience s perception of the performance of the concert the anticipation of the concert the audience s demographics the audience s engagement with the artist s performing during the concert or other audience participant characteristics etc.

There are a number of mobile applications that concert goers currently use on their mobile phones when attending concerts. For example Facebook for determining which of their friends is also at the concert Foursquare for checking into a concert venue to learn tips about the concert venue or special offers from the concert venue Flickr for sharing pictures of the concert YouTube for sharing video clips of the concert and Twitter for sharing thoughts about the concert to name a few mobile applications. However to date none of these mobile applications are focused on understanding the audience size and sentiment by amalgamating tracking and analyzing mobile phone data activity and transmissions.

Further all of the aforementioned mobile phone applications have Application Programming Interfaces APIs where certain data if applicable may be imported from the aforementioned sources or other third party sources. For reference herein APIs are particular specifications that the Concert Profiling System will utilize to access and make use of services information data and or resources etc. that are provided by a particular software program that implements the API.

What is lacking in the prior art is a means not only to observe the number of active mobile phones at a venue but also a means to determine the size and sentiment of an audience attending a concert at the venue where the mobile phone activity is observed.

In view of the limitations now present in the prior art the present invention provides a new and useful system and method for determining audience characteristics of a concert such as the size and sentiment of an audience attending a concert at a venue where mobile phone activity is observed the audience s perception of the performance of the concert the anticipation of the concert the audience s demographics the audience s engagement with the artist s performing during the concert or other audience participant characteristics etc. It is also a purpose of the present invention to provide a new system and method for determining the size demographics engagement and sentiment of an audience attending a concert at a venue based on mobile phone location tracking and audience feedback e.g. comments photos video etc. which are sent via mobile devices and thus this invention has many novel features not offered by the prior art applications that result in a new system and method which is not apparent or obvious either directly or indirectly by any of the prior art applications. This system is referred to herein as the Concert Profiling System CPS .

The goal of present invention disclosed herein is to determine the characteristics of an audience attending a concert such as the size and sentiment of an audience attending a concert at a venue where mobile phone activity is observed the audience s perception of the performance of the concert the anticipation of the concert the audience s demographics the audience s engagement with the artist s performing during the concert or other audience participant characteristics etc. In the preferred embodiment a venue is any location hosting a music related performance such as a concert ranging from a small night club or auditorium to a large theater or coliseum. Venues may also include outdoor locations such as parks fields and amphitheaters.

A network based system utilizes signals from cell phones to derive their location utilizing one or several signal towers base stations to take distance measurements. These measurements are then sent to a location center where the subscriber s position is calculated such as by triangulation of the signals. There is no requirement to make any changes to the current handsets. However the cell phone must be in active mode i.e. in talk mode or sending a signal through the control channel to enable location measurement. According to Openwave Inc. the network based system has an accuracy of 50 to 200 meters if the triangulation is employed and up to 300 meters for other methods.

A handset based system on the other hand typically relies on GPS enabled mobile phones. The GPS unit in the handset determines the location of a mobile phone based on signals received from satellites and this information is relayed from the mobile phone to a central processing system maintained by the mobile phone carrier. As GPS chips become a staple component of the mobile phone this method is becoming the predominant one. According to Openwave Inc. the handset based system has an accuracy of 5 to 30 meters depending on characteristics of the surrounding environment and is typically less than 15 meters. This accuracy is expected to improve over time with technological advancements as well as the use of the network based system in conjunction with GPS technology with.

Additionally smartphones are experiencing accelerated rates of adoption which means larger and more complex data will be transmitted with greater frequency by larger numbers of users. According to Berg Insight in March of 2011 smartphone shipments increased 74 from 2009 to 2010 and according to ComScore over 45.5 million people in the United States owned smartphones in 2010. For reference herein smartphones such as the iPhone and Android offer advanced mobile computing capability allowing end users to install and run advanced applications and games.

Generally speaking in the preferred embodiment a location data provider will provide to the CPS at least the longitude and latitude coordinates also known as a geolocation for active mobile phones within a requested geographical area for a given time period. This data may be provided in near real time at a regular time interval upon request by the CPS or upon the trigger of an event or action. Such information may include the physical dimensions of a venue the venue s seating and operating capacity and its availability and hours of operation which may also be obtained from companies like Songkick Bandsintown OnlineGigs and Ticketmaster either directly or through their API s .

Still another means of determining geolocation in the preferred embodiment is to receive location information from players of Music Scout a game and utility application. A Music Scout application operates on a player s mobile phone and determines the location of the mobile phone by accessing the mobile phone s GPS unit or by asking the player to provide the location such as selecting the present location from a list of locations.

Based in part on the location data received for a venue the CPS calculates metrics such as the size of the audience in attendance at the venue for a concert number of persons and the ratio of attendance to capacity of the venue. In the preferred embodiment it can also archive historical location data for a venue showing traffic to and from the venue over a time period and calculate metrics such as average persons in attendance and the ratio of current attendance to average attendance. These averages may be calculated for certain historical time periods or for past concerts.

In determining certain metrics such as audience size it is typically necessary for the CPS to perform calculations based on more information than the location data. These calculations may involve using additional information provided by other applications and or by entities such as mobile phone carriers federal government agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission FCC and third party research firms. Such information may include the physical dimensions of a venue the venue s seating and operating capacity and its availability and hours of operation. It may also include mobile phone coverage and market penetration data.

The CPS may also calculate metrics pertaining to the sentiment of an audience about a concert from qualitative information it receives. In the preferred embodiment the CPS may receive sentiment information from Music Scout. During a concert players of Music Scout provide sentiment information using their mobile phones. A player can rate his experience at the concert and or rate the performance of a music artist by via a Music Scout application running on the player s mobile phone. By way of example a player could select a rating between 1 poor and 5 great to indicate his sentiment. The player s measure of sentiment is examined collectively with other players at the same concert and may be used to provide a measure of sentiment for the whole audience. In the preferred embodiment the CPS may receive sentiment information from the Popularity Profiling System PPS server as discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 322 625.

In the preferred embodiment the CPS may receive and or provide data including but not limited to audience sentiment and size characteristics to the Wagering System U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 927 030.

In the preferred embodiment the CPS may receive sentiment information from the Popularity Profiling System PPS server which is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 322 625. The PPS server may process sentiment information in the form of people s comments on social networking sites such as Facebook Twitter and Foursquare and related web based applications where the comments can be associated reliably with a concert at a venue. An example of associating comments with a concert is through the examination of metadata for pictures posted to social networking sites such as Flickr wherein people typically have the ability to post comments about a particular picture posted. Pictures are stored according to image file formats and several of these formats including Exif used by digital cameras support the recording of time date and geolocation information. Similarly relevant location information may be obtained from social media applications such as Twitter Facebook and Foursquare.

In the preferred embodiment once the CPS has performed its calculations of size sentiment and any other metrics these metrics are made available to one or more applications or otherwise placed in a database accessible by one or more applications . One application that may use these metrics is the PPS wherein the metric s may be incorporated as part of an artist s popularity profile. Music Scout is another application that may use these metrics.

Although the following detailed description contains many specifics for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the following embodiments of the invention are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention.

All computing devices and communicate using a document transfer protocol such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol or any other document transfer protocol known in the art such as FTP Gopher WAIS XMLP etc. Typically the client includes a browser program such as an HTML browser capable of submitting requests using the HTTP protocol in a manner known in the art. The client may also be an application other than a browser such as a rich internet application capable of exchanging data and interfacing with a user.

The data is examined by the CPS at step to count the number of unique mobile phones whose geolocation coordinates are contained within the longitudinal and latitudinal boundaries of a venue being monitored by the CPS such as a venue associated with a concert occurring at the same time as the timestamp indicated by the location data. The count will at least represent the number of mobile phones within the venue boundary at a particular time. The CPS may also count the cumulative number of mobile phones that have entered the venue boundary over a period of time. These counts may be different if the attendance at a venue exhibits churn.

Alternatively in step a location will be considered to be contained within a venue boundary if it resides within a predefined margin outside the boundary. This margin of error may correspond to the limitations on the accuracy of location measurements performed by the carriers. If the data is received from Music Scout and the venue has been verified by the player then the mobile phone is counted along with those within the venue boundary.

A venue location may be defined as a pair of longitudinal and a latitudinal coordinates herein referred to as a center point. A venue boundary may be defined as a series of vertices of longitudinal and latitudinal coordinates that would form a perimeter around the center point if edges connected them together. In the preferred embodiment a venue boundary is defined either 1 as a rectangle wherein a first vertex corresponds to the northernmost direction a second vertex corresponds to the easternmost direction a third vertex corresponds to the southernmost direction and a fourth vertex corresponds to the westernmost direction or 2 as a rectangle wherein a first vertex corresponds approximately to the northwest direction a second vertex corresponds approximately to the northeast direction a third vertex corresponds approximately to the southeast direction and a fourth vertex corresponds approximately to the southwest direction. All directions are provided relative to the center point. A venue boundary typically corresponds to the approximate footprint of the building or physical structure or property line of the venue.

In step unqualified mobile phones are filtered out or removed from the count by the CPS . In the preferred embodiment a mobile phone is considered unqualified if it is non stationary or if it is associated with employees of the venue. A non stationary mobile phone is one whose location falls within the venue boundary for a brief time period i.e. less than five minutes and then moves out of it. A typical non stationary mobile phone represents a person who passes near or through a venue on his way to another location outside of the venue boundary. Due to the margin of error in the accuracy of location measurements some persons passing near a venue such as walking on a sidewalk in front of a night club may be included in the count of mobile phones considered to be within the venue boundary. Or some persons may pass through a venue such as an outdoor plaza on their way to another establishment with no intention of staying at the plaza. A mobile phone may initially be considered to be qualified if its location falls within the venue boundary. But if subsequent tracking of the same mobile phone shows that the mobile phone has exited the venue boundary before a brief threshold time period has passed such as one or several minutes then that mobile phone will be considered unqualified. A mobile phone also will be considered unqualified if it loses or drops its signal with a base station for a brief threshold period of time. Similarly if the historical pattern of movement of a mobile phone suggests the owner user of the phone is a venue employee such as exhibiting a regular work schedule over a period of days or weeks then that mobile phone will be considered unqualified. Further the mobile phone will be considered unqualified if the owner user is identified with the police fire or other municipal authority. Any other means of determining whether a mobile phone is unqualified may be utilized. In circumstances where the determination of unqualified mobile phones is not readily ascertainable all mobile phones may be considered qualified.

In an alternative embodiment steps and may be combined in order to count only qualified mobile phones. The filtering and the counting are thus part of the same step. In this regard only mobile phones are counted that do not belong to venue employees if this can be determined and have remained within the venue boundary for a brief threshold period of time.

In step the CPS estimates the size of the audience by multiplying the count of qualified mobile phones with a predetermined factor. This factor is a number representing a ratio of qualified mobile phone users in attendance to total expected audience size. It is predetermined in the sense that it has already been calculated or is readily calculable at the time it is utilized in step . In the preferred embodiment the factor is comprised but not limited to a penetration rate and an availability rate.

The penetration rate is the ratio of persons possessing a mobile phone to persons not possessing a mobile phone in the general population or among a subset of the population defined by demographic criteria such as age education socio economic status and geographic location. The penetration rate used in determining the factor may depend on the demographic profile of the audience at a concert at a venue. A means of understanding the demographic profile of an audience is to utilize the popularity profile of a music artist performing at the concert or at comparable past concerts at the venue as provided by the PPS Server described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 322 625. A typical popularity profile may include the artist s genre of music demographic information about his fans and supporters and other information indicative of the type of audience he is likely to attract to the venue.

The availability rate is the ratio of persons in the population who own a mobile phone but whose mobile phone cannot be tracked for some reason comprising at least the following circumstances 1 owner forgot or chose not to bring the phone 2 owner turned off the phone 3 phone has a dead battery or 4 phone has a malfunction. The first three items can be reasonably estimated through market studies and surveys of consumer experience with mobile phones. The likelihood of phone malfunction can be reasonably estimated from customer complaint and product return statistics compiled by mobile phone manufacturers and providers.

The size at time t of an audience attending a concert at a venue v S can be represented by Equation 1 below. Equation 1 where Cis the total count of mobile phones at time t within the venue boundary of venue v Cis the count of unqualified mobile phones at time t and Fis the predetermined factor associated with venue v which is a function of R the penetration rate for the subset of the population fitting a particular demographic profile d and R the availability rate for the subset of the population fitting a particular demographic profile d.

The CPS may also calculate a measure of audience size representing the cumulative audience size for a concert at a venue. This is accomplished in the same manner as above except that the cumulative count for a given time period is used instead of the count at a particular time as discussed for step . Similar to Equation 1 the cumulative size for the time period t to t of an audience attending a concert at a venue v S can be represented by Equation 2 below. Equation 2 

In an alternative embodiment data collected from steps through may be collected from or in combination with other mobile phone location data from third party companies such as FourSquare Twitter and Facebook via their APIs.

In step the sentiment data is classified into two or more categories. The two most basic categories of sentiment are favorable and unfavorable which can be represented quantitatively as 1 and 1 or in the alternative as 1 0 1 representing unfavorable ambivalent undetermined and favorable . These categories reflect whether a person s expression of sentiment about an object or activity related to a concert is favorable positive affirming agreeable approving pleasing etc. or not. The number of categories may be expanded to reflect a greater range of sentiment such as a five point rating system as follows strong disapproval modest disapproval ambivalence modest approval and strong approval represented quantitatively as 2 1 0 1 2. In the preferred embodiment the Music Scout application operating on a user s mobile phone would present the five categories of sentiment as described above to the user as part of a poll or question in which the user selects one of the categories.

Sentiment data typically consists of at least three types of information 1 information identifying a particular music concert at a venue 2 information describing a person s expression of sentiment about an object or activity related to a music concert and 3 information identifying the source of the sentiment data. In the preferred embodiment sentiment data received from the Music Scout application consists of at least 1 the name or identifying code of a particular concert at a venue 2 a numerical rating 3 information identifying the source as Music Scout and 4 the time and date.

In step all sentiment data associated with a concert at a venue is incorporated into a metric or set of metrics that describe the sentiment of the audience at the concert in aggregate. In the preferred embodiment one metric calculated is the mean value of all sentiment data received from Music Scout for a concert at a particular time. Assuming Music Scout employed a five point rating system as suggested above a mean value of 1.0 would suggest an audience sentiment of modest approval. Audience sentiment at time t is determined by Equation 3 below.

Another metric that may be calculated is a statistical confidence level indicating the extent to which the group of persons for which sentiment was measured correlates to the sentiment of the entire audience attending the concert. This may be determined by taking a linear regression of the sentiment measurements collected from the group wherein the confidence level is derived from the variance of the fitted linear function.

The CPS performs analysis on the data contained in database to determine size sentiment and any other metrics related to audience characteristics at a music concert as discussed in the balance of this specification. The CPS is also responsible for sending and retrieving data from the PPS server described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 322 625. In the preferred embodiment the CPS sends an audience sentiment metric described in Equation 3 and a size metric described in Equation 2 at periodic time intervals to the PPS server wherein the two metrics are associated with a particular music concert and one or more music artists.

 1 Data related to mobile phone locations from AirSage SkyHook or another mobile phone location tracking company the data for each mobile phone being tracked comprising 

In an alternative embodiment the CPS can determine a correlation related to the size and sentiment of an audience at a music concert. One use of correlation is to determine whether sentiment of the audience depends on size and if so at what size audience does sentiment change significantly. Correlation between size and sentiment can be determined by known statistical methods in the art. As an example the correlation between size X and sentiment Y can be described using Equation 4 below.

It will be clear to one skilled in the art that the above embodiments may be altered in many ways without departing from the scope of the invention.

