---

title: Method and apparatus for distributing collaborative content
abstract: An example approach for enabling content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria is described. A collaboration platform determines one or more execution criteria for at least one device based, at least in part, on presence information, capability information, characteristic information, or a combination thereof of at least one other device within proximity of the at least one device. The collaboration platform also determines an execution of the one or more content items based, at least in part, on one or more execution criteria associated with the one or more content items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571604&OS=09571604&RS=09571604
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09571604
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20130703
---
This application was originally filed as PCT Application No. PCT FI2013 050729 filed Jul. 3 2013 which claims priority benefit from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 668 265 filed Jul. 5 2012.

Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been the development of services and technologies for sharing content between device users. Many content providers recognize the significant value of employing social networking viral marketing and other word of mouth techniques as a means of distributing content. By way of example providers may direct targeted advertisement content and offers to groups of people consumers based on their common interests and affiliations. Still further digital content providers may employ superdistribution to facilitate the active uninhibited sharing of content by individuals. Unfortunately content providers are limited in their ability to permit the sharing of content in a manner that enforces group and or device collaboration as criteria for affecting execution e.g. playback of the content.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for enabling content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining one or more execution criteria for at least one device based at least in part on presence information capability information characteristic information or a combination thereof of at least one other device within proximity of the at least one device. The method also comprises causing at least in part an association of the one or more execution criteria with one or more content items. The method further comprises determining an execution of the one or more content items based at least in part on the one or more execution criteria.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine one or more execution criteria for at least one device based at least in part on presence information capability information characteristic information or a combination thereof of at least one other device within proximity of the at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part an association of the one or more execution criteria with one or more content items. The apparatus is further caused to determine an execution of the one or more content items based at least in part on the one or more execution criteria.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine one or more execution criteria for at least one device based at least in part on presence information capability information characteristic information or a combination thereof of at least one other device within proximity of the at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part an association of the one or more execution criteria with one or more content items. The apparatus is further caused to determine an execution of the one or more content items based at least in part on the one or more execution criteria.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining one or more execution criteria for at least one device based at least in part on presence information capability information characteristic information or a combination thereof of at least one other device within proximity of the at least one device. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part an association of the one or more execution criteria with one or more content items. The apparatus further comprises means for determining an execution of the one or more content items based at least in part on the one or more execution criteria.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims and .

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for enabling content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As noted previously content providers recognize the significant value of enlisting the general public to distribute their content. By way of example content may include any media capable of being digitally rendered or executable via a computing device including digital print games video and audio. Furthermore the content may pertain to various subject matters or be devised to appeal to specific target audiences for accomplishing different execution purposes. Hence the content may be devised for commercial and or business purposes be informational or educational provide entertainment etc.

In some instances content providers enable the direct accessing and sharing of their content by way of a word of mouth or direct marketing schemes. One such scheme supporting distribution of digital content is superdistribution wherein users are encouraged to distribute content without any digital rights management limitations. As such superdistribution is known as a highly efficient means of disseminating content to large quantities of people while leveraging the influence of the individual distributors.

Unfortunately the open uninhibited nature of the above described approaches also limits the capacity of content providers to influence how and when their content is shared. For example content providers have little to no influence over the number of people to which content can be shared. Moreover the providers have no effective means of controlling the timing and or sequencing of execution of their content. Still further content providers currently have no means of ensuring their content is executed by devices best suited for maximizing user enjoyment i.e. based on device software sound or image processing capabilities of a recipient device.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to facilitate the execution of content on the basis of execution criteria . The execution criteria may specify a characteristic condition a contextual condition of one or more users and or respective user equipment UE for interacting with the content a device capability condition or a combination thereof. By way of example a characteristic condition specified as execution criteria may include a device manufacturer type or model a service provider type a network type etc. As another example a device capability condition may include an audio and or video processing capability of the UE a graphic rendering capability a processing capability a network interface capability data storage and access capability or the like. It is noted in certain embodiments that the capability conditions and characteristic conditions may be directly or indirectly related conditions depending on the relationship between the communications network provider and the provider of the UE . The collaboration platform therefore operate as an intermediary platform hosted solution or the like for facilitating criteria based content distribution according to different arrangements and business models accordingly.

Still further the execution criteria may be based on contextual information regarding a user of UE including the distributor of the shared content a target recipient of the shared content or a combination thereof. The contextual criteria may also pertain to one or more contextual conditions associated with UE of said users. For instance the collaboration platform may receive and subsequently process context data such as position information location information presence information device operational status information or the like. Still further the platform may process profile and or subscription information associated with the user.

In certain embodiments the execution criteria must be fulfilled in order to permit execution of content provided by a service provider at requesting and or receiving user equipment . For example in the case of video content the criteria may indicate specific conditions related to the above be fulfilled to permit partial or full execution e.g. playback of the video. As another example in the case of content relating to an interactive game the criteria may specify that at least four device users be within a predetermined proximity of one another to permit game play. As a further condition at least one of the devices may be required to feature a certain graphics processing capability. Hence the execution criteria may be generated as a combination of one or more of the above described presence capability or characteristic information conditions by a provider of content referred to herein collectively as content .

In certain embodiments the execution criteria may also specify one or more roles required to be fulfilled by one or more UE for which content is to be executed e.g. played or viewed . The role may be defined for example on the basis of the type of content to be executed. Under this scenario for instance a multiplayer game may specify that of the three required participants one of them is to play the role of leader of the group within the game. As another example the role may be defined on the basis of which user or UE is responsible for initiating distribution sharing of the content . Under this scenario the roles are assigned according to the sequence of entry of users within range of each other or based on a level or ranking associated with members of a common social network. It is noted that the role assignment may also correspond to a subscription and or membership agreement by the user of UE with a provider of the collaboration platform or a provider of the content . Under this scenario for example at least one of the users to which content is to be distributed shared may be required to be a member in good standing with the provider s .

In certain embodiments distribution of content to one or more UE is based at least in part on fulfillment of a proximity and or presence condition of the one or more UE . For example execution criteria for an interactive slideshow may specify that at least a first UE and second UE be within proximity of one another to permit execution of the slideshow. In addition execution of content may be further based at least in part on fulfillment of a capability or characteristic condition. For example a playback requirement for a movie may be that at least one UE have the ability to render three dimensional content while another UE be associated with a specific manufacturer or network provider. For the purpose of illustration any group of UE that meets the requirements is referred to herein as an established group.

Of note the collaboration platform facilitates the gathering and subsequent interpreting of presence information capability information characteristic information or a combination thereof for each UE . This is carried out based on data collected by various sensors referred to herein collectively as sensors of the UE or on the basis of user profile information pertaining to a user of UE . For example context information indicating the current location position or presence of a user may be collected by sensors and subsequently periodically transmitted to the collaboration platform . As another example characteristic and capability information regarding UE may be determined based on the passage of device type identification model identification etc. Still further user information and or device information may be determined based on processing of a user identifier subscriber identity module SIM card data carrier identification information or other data as cross referenced against user profile information.

In certain embodiments the content provider may access a configuration interface of the collaboration platform for defining the criteria. Under this scenario the content provider may specify a particular user condition device condition contextual condition network condition group interaction condition or the like for defining a set of criteria in association with specific content . In addition the content provider may specify a particular role of a user for defining how different users interact with one another as they execute the content. In certain embodiments the execution criteria may be stored as a unique data file for retrieval by the collaboration platform in connection with specific content . In this case the content may include a reference pointer to a corresponding data file.

In certain embodiments respective UE may be configured with applications for supporting the access execution and rendering of content . The applications referred to herein collectively as applications may be a browser a widget or a standalone application capable of interacting with the collaboration platform via the communication network . By way of the application the collaboration platform may generate a user interface at UE for supporting concurrent content execution.

Under this scenario the collaboration platform may cause the rendering of user interface elements including action buttons menus and other graphics primitives. Each user interface element may be associated with a specific user input response or action for enabling a user to interact with content . By way of example an action button for initiating sharing of content between different UE may be presented via the application . As another example an action button for initiating playback of content at multiple devices in response to fulfillment of execution criteria may be presented to a display of at least one of the participating UE . It is noted that the user interface elements presented to a user may be defined by the content while a specified user input is monitored by the collaboration platform accordingly to ensure criteria based control and execution of the content .

In addition the user may be presented with status information for indicating whether or not the required execution criteria have been fulfilled. The status information may be rendered to a display of a device as one or more user interface elements including icons indicators and the like. By way of example the status information may indicate how many additional devices are required to render execution of content the roles to be fulfilled etc. It is noted that the status information may also be rendered to the user interface as textual content for indicating the remaining requirements.

Still further in certain embodiments the collaboration platform also manages the sequencing staging and synchronizing of content across UE based on fulfillment of criteria . By way of example the sequencing staging and synchronization may correspond to any means of timing and arranging of the concurrent accessing rendering or playback of content if required . Under this scenario video content wherein multiple different users are required to permit execution of the video may be appropriately distributed and timed for concurrent playback at each UE. This ensures for example that each user consumes the content at the same time. Still further when an additional UE is within proximity of content currently in execution the platform may match the current point of play of the video with the new UE .

In instances where concurrent execution is not required i.e. based on the requirements the collaboration platform may also facilitate sequential passage of content information from one UE to another. This may include passage of a token from one UE to another for indicating a current control or mode of operation of the content at a given UE within an established group i.e. a group of devices interacting on the basis of fulfilled criteria requirements. Table 1 presents different content execution and distribution models schemes capable of being performed by the collaboration platform . It is noted however that the platform may be configured and or adapted to account for different models.

Of note actual distribution of content may occur prior to or at the point of initial execution of the content by at least one of the UE of a defined group. Under this scenario each participating UE gets a full copy of the content . Alternatively the content can be copied and distributed to each participating device during or after the point of initial execution i.e. after a portion of a video has already elapsed.

Also as noted with respect to Table 1 a centralized server not shown may be configured to interact with the collaboration platform and respective UE to facilitate various content sharing copying and or distribution actions. In certain embodiments after successful execution or distribution of content the initiating UE informs the centralized server of this status. The status notification may include for example data for specifying details about the user s the content that was executed the receiving UE etc. Once collected this data can be processed by the collaboration platform to facilitate the recommending of additional content e.g. targeted advertisements coupons discounts etc. for related products or services related to the content.

In certain embodiments the collaboration platform is configured to perform one or more of the following content sharing distribution and execution tasks 1 determining multiple UE are within a predetermined proximity of one another 2 determine the entry or loss of UE from an established group of UE 3 determine fulfillment of one or more execution criteria for one or more UE 4 enable execution of the content based on the fulfillment. It is noted that sharing of content among UE may be enabled via short range communication such as Bluetooth or ad hoc mesh networking.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE having connectivity to the collaboration platform via a communication network . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE collaboration platform and providers of content communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer header a data link layer header an internetwork layer header and a transport layer header and various application layer layer and layer headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In addition the collaboration platform also maintains or accesses content as received from content providers e.g. advertisers movie vendors music vendors execution criteria for defining conditions for permitting execution of content and profile information related to various users and or content provider subscribers of the platform . The modules of the advertisement sharing platform may access databases and for performing various executable functions.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the collaboration platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request from a user of a device to subscribe to the platform for enabling criteria based sharing of content . The subscription process may include establishing one or more preferences regarding their content interests i.e. for facilitating receipt of targeted content. The preferences and settings of the user may be stored in connection with profile information for to the user. Of note in certain instances the initial authentication process may also involve the activation and or downloading of an application for viewing content via the user device .

Similarly one or more content providers may also subscribe with the collaboration platform . The subscription may include specifying the network or file location of content to be directed to users. In addition the content provider may also specify criteria for processing interpreting the types of responses of a user to advertisement content . For example the criteria may be stored in a data file and used at the time of user interaction with content to determine fulfillment of a required execution condition a request of the user to forward content a request to initiate or stop execution etc.

It is noted that for users and advertisement providers the authentication module enables the subscription procedure to be performed based on different subscription models. For example in the case of a paid subscription model the authentication module may coordinate with a payment processing service to enable paid access to content . As another example the authentication module may further access a cloud based service for enabling seamless storing of various data sets e.g. databases and such as to support UE mobility. Under this scenario the authentication module facilitates a login and data sharing procedure via a cloud computing access protocol.

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value provided or established during subscription. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input from UE via a graphical user interface to the platform e.g. as enabled by the user interface module . Alternatively the login procedure may be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained as registration data with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

In one embodiment the criteria determination module determines which criteria corresponds to particular content queued for and or requested to be executed by UE . For example the criteria determination module may process a header file or other data bit within a portion of the content for determining a reference location of the corresponding execution criteria . In addition the criteria determination module also processes contextual information characteristic information and capability information pertaining to at least one UE to determine whether the corresponding execution criteria have been fulfilled. By way of example the criteria determination module may process the contextual information to determine a presence of one UE within proximity to another. As another example the criteria determination module may determine that a number of UE are within proximity according to the established criteria . By processing capability and characteristic information additional conditions pertaining to a UE a provider of a UE the provider of the content or a provider of the communication network may also be verified accordingly.

In one embodiment the transmission agent facilitates the transmission and subsequent execution of content based on verification of criteria fulfillment by the criteria determination module . For example the transmission agent supports content sharing and distribution techniques including content forwarding content synchronization and sequencing and other known mechanisms for facilitating execution of the same content on different UE . Distribution of the content may be based on peer to peer communication or centralized node distribution in coordination with the communication module . Furthermore the transmission agent may interpret content execution parameters for supporting coordinated passage of tokens to UE accordingly. As such the transmission agent and communication module facilitate the sequencing staging and synchronizing of content across UE based on fulfillment of criteria .

In one embodiment the content access module retrieves content corresponding to determined fulfillment of criteria . In addition the content access module is configured to retrieve content on demand such as in response to a user request or periodically from a content provider. Of note the criteria determination module may call upon the content access module for performing analysis of the contextual characteristic or capability information gathered in association with UE .

In one embodiment the user interface module facilitates generation of different interfaces for enabling users and content providers to interact with the collaboration platform . This includes for example generation of a configuration interface for enabling content providers to input and or define response criteria . Still further the user interface module may cause generation of a user interface for enabling rendering of content to a display of UE . Under this scenario the user interface module also generates various user interface elements such as action buttons for facilitating user interaction with the content . By way of example the user interface module generates the user interface and various elements thereof via one or more application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls of the UE .

In one embodiment a communication module enables formation of a session over a network between the collaboration platform and the UE . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between UE e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and the platform . It is noted that the communication module is also configured to support a browser session i.e. the retrieval of content as referenced by a resource identifier entered at the browser. As such the browser session may support the accessing playback forwarding and other executions related to the content.

The above presented modules and components of the collaboration platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the collaboration platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UEs . As such the collaboration platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the application and accessing content . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UE as a platform or a combination thereof.

In step the collaboration platform determines one or more execution criteria for at least one device based on presence information capability information and or characteristic information of at least one other device within proximity of the at least one device. As mentioned previously the presence information capability information and or characteristic information may be determined based on data collected by one or more sensors of UE . Alternatively the data may be based on cross referencing of device and or user identifier information against profile information for defining the capabilities or characteristics of a user and their corresponding UE.

In step the collaboration platform causes an association of the one or more execution criteria with the one or more content items. Per step the platform further determines an execution of the one or more content items based at least in part on the one or more execution criteria. The determined execution may include for example a playing playback of the content a stopping of the content a pausing of the content or any other task to be carried out for permitting user interaction with the content .

In step of process the collaboration platform determines that the at least one device and or the at least one other device at least substantially satisfy the one or more execution criteria. For example in the case where the criteria are a number of participants in a video game the platform maintains a count of the number of active group participants. Per step the collaboration platform also causes a distribution of the one or more content items and or an activation of at least one feature associated with the one or more content items to the at least one device and or the at least one other device. By way of example various features associated with content may be gradually enabled as additional criteria associated with the content are fulfilled. Under this scenario a requirement of six participants for enabling execution of a multi player video game may be partially played only up to the first two levels of the game with four available players.

In step of process the collaboration platform determines one or more roles associated with the execution of the one or more collaborative content items. In another step the platform also determines the one or more execution criteria based on the one or more roles. Still further in step the platform causes an assignment of the one or more roles to at least one device and or the at least one other device for the execution of the one or more content items based on the capability information and or the characteristic information. Hence the roles to be carried out may vary based on the content to be executed as well as the various capability and characteristic information determined in connection with UE . It is noted that one or more distribution rights associated with the one or more content items e.g. as established by a content provider are independent of the one or more execution criteria .

Per step the platform determines the one or more execution criteria based on the one or more roles. It is noted therefore that the roles and mode of interaction of users with content may be established automatically by the platform . This is in contrast to user interaction models wherein a specific user must initiate and define the role. Rather the content provider may establish a set of criteria in connection with execution of the content for controlling the mode and means of interaction of users and corresponding UE that fulfill the established criteria . Furthermore content to be distributed and subsequently executed may be directly associated with the user and or UE based on the role.

In step of process the collaboration platform determines status information with respect to a satisfaction of the one or more execution criteria. The status information may include for example a current number of UE within proximity of one another whether certain device capabilities are present etc. In step the platform also causes a presentation of one or more representations of the status information. By way of example when additional users are required to fulfill a proximity condition and or participation condition a notification message or icon for representing this requirement may be shown. Still further the status information may include an indication of which of the one or more content items are available for access or a needed number of the at least one other device for satisfying the one or more execution criteria.

Per step the collaboration platform determines at least one token for coordinating execution of the one or more content items among the at least one device the at least one other device or a combination thereof. As mentioned previously the token may enable peer to peer or centralized distribution and execution of the content . In addition passage of a token from one UE to another may support the staging and synchronizing of content among devices.

In the user of device wishes to access video content from a video content service provider. A single frame of the video content is presented to the user interface however it is not executable e.g. no play button is presented . In addition to the video still various user interface elements are presented for indicating a status of fulfillment of the execution criteria. In this case the user interface elements include icons for representing the number of people required to enable execution of the content . In addition an audio icon and display icon are presented for representing the roles of an audio and display device capability respectively. It is noted that the number of required participants is four while the roles required correspond to a specific device capabilities. The execution criteria may further specify a particular manufacture model type or other characteristic of the audio and display related roles as well as conditional criteria for defining said roles.

In two additional device are shown to be within proximity of user device . In this case presence information is exchanged between the devices as well as with the collaboration platform in order to determine short range connectivity is established. As a result of the resulting presence condition being met along with content interaction permissions of the users the participating devices and are also caused to present a single frame still image of the video . As in the case of device the users have no ability to execute the content as the execution requirements are still unfulfilled.

Under this scenario however the status information indicates that two additional users are present out of the four required. This is depicted by way of example via highlighted icons and for representing the presence of devices and . In addition the display role and audio device as indicated via icons and respectively are shown as being fulfilled represented by way of a shadow highlighting. Consequently the user is also able to view the number of missing devices for fulfillment of the execution criteria as well as determine fulfillment of the required roles. It is noted that additional details regarding the current status information such as which specific device is to play a specific role may also presented. It is also noted that the status information may or may not be presented to the user interface rendered to the participating devices and .

In this scenario while full execution of the video is not permitted the platform causes the audio systems of respective devices and to render an audio sample of the music video. This is in response to execution criteria for indicating that the snippet is to be played when at least two devices are within proximity of one another and at least one is able to fulfill the required audio capability role. The audio sample is a snippet and serves as a teaser inducement for the user of device to encourage participation of at least two more users i.e. the number indicated as missing per the execution criteria status information. By way of example audio signals are depicted as emanating from devices and as signals and respectively.

In two additional devices and are shown within proximity of user device . Consequently the devices and are also caused to present via a user interface the same music video content . Furthermore the status information for indicating fulfillment of the execution criteria is updated. Under this scenario each of the icons for representing the number of people required to enable execution of the content is highlighted. As a result of the criteria being fulfilled a PLAY action button is rendered to the user interface to enable the user to execute the music video. When the user selects this button the music video is caused to be executed at each of the devices.

In the user of device is presented with various incentives and offers after viewing the music video in its entirety. Under this scenario the offer is presented as a notification message for indicating a discount offer for purchase of the album of the artist associated with the music video content . In addition action buttons and are presented for enabling the user to initiate a purchase transaction per the discount or reject the offer respectively. It is noted that the same view may be presented to the other devices and as well.

As noted previously the collaboration platform may facilitate different means of distribution sequencing staging and synchronization of the content among the devices and . Under this scenario for example if a fifth user device were to join the group of devices and while the music video was in execution at its halfway point the fifth user device not shown would view the video from the same point of execution. By way of this approach the video content viewing experience is the same for each of the users thus promoting group interaction.

The exemplary techniques and systems presented herein enable content providers to combine the viral marketing techniques with the efficiency of superdistribution of content. As such users are encouraged to elicit the participation of others in order to receive benefits associated with the content. This presents new opportunities for advertising and content sharing amongst target groups individual members of a social networking service etc. Still further short range communication of the content enables and encourages both physical and digital interaction of users within proximity of one another.

The processes described herein for enabling content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to enable content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for enabling content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for enabling content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for enabling content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of enabling content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to enable content to be distributed based on user and device related execution criteria. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

