---

title: Providing relevant information based on usage data
abstract: A computing device can obtain usage data associated with the device. The usage data indicate how the computing device operates or how the device is used. The device can analyze the usage data to recognize usage patterns. The usage patterns can correspond to recurring actions or tasks initiated by the user using the device, such as actions or tasks initiated due to the user's habits and/or routines. Based on the usage patterns, the device can determine a task that has a sufficient likelihood of being performed using the device within a specified or determined time (e.g., 5 minutes from now, one year from now, etc.). The device can provide information (e.g., recommendations) associated with the task, and likely relevant to the user. The user can use the provided information to perform the task, thereby increasing the ease of access or efficiency associated with performing the task.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09658882&OS=09658882&RS=09658882
owner: AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09658882
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130701
---
Computing devices are becoming more commonplace and are used for a wide variety of purposes. Every day people use their computing devices to view access and or interact with various types of content and information especially as computing devices and applications are growing in number and in function. A computing device can be used by a user to communicate capture images check email browse the Internet and transmit or receive various types of information. The user of a computing device may use his computing device wherever he goes throughout his day. In some cases the user may develop one or more routines e.g. daily routines weekly routines in regards to how he lives his life. In one example almost every weekday morning the user communicates with his spouse on his way to work. Conventional approaches for accomplishing this task can typically involve the user taking out his computing device finding his spouse s contact information and calling his spouse using the device. In another example nearly every Friday night the user invites a friend s over to hang out eat and watch a movie. A conventional approach can involve the user pulling out his device opening a web browser or other relevant application and searching for movie reviews and suggestions. In some instances the amount of steps or user actions needed to perform these takes can be inconvenient time consuming or cumbersome to the user. These and other concerns can reduce the overall user experience associated with using computing devices to help perform various tasks in the user s life.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure overcome one or more of the above referenced and other deficiencies in conventional approaches to performing computing tasks. In particular various embodiments of the present disclosure can provide a recommendation or other relevant information useful for performing a specified task as may be associated with a user.

At least some embodiments enable a computing device to receive obtain and or access usage data associated with the device. In some instances usage data can correspond to information indicative of how the computing device operates or how the device is used. The computing device can analyze the usage data associated with the device and determine i.e. identify recognize etc. one or more usage patterns. The usage patterns can correspond to recurring actions or tasks performed by the computing device e.g. initiated by a user of the device . In some cases usage patterns can include reoccurrences of particular activities performed using the computing device. In some cases usage patterns can be associated with user habits and or routines. Based on the usage patterns the device can determine e.g. identify recognize predict etc. a task that potentially may be performed by the device e.g. initiated by the user at a future time. In other words the device can identify a task that has a sufficient likelihood of being performed using the device within a specified or determined time period e.g. near future 5 minutes from now one day from now one year from now etc. . As such the device can provide information e.g. one or more recommendations that is associated with the task and likely relevant to the user. The information can be provided to the user within the specified time period. Accordingly various embodiments of the present technology can enable the user to utilize the provided information when performing a task which can thereby improve the efficiency usability and or accessibility etc. associated with performing the task.

In one example usage data can include how the device is used to communicate. In this example a usage pattern can correspond to the user using the device to call his spouse at a particular time during weekdays e.g. the user typically calls his spouse every weekday morning at 9 00 AM . The computing device can analyze the usage data to recognize this usage pattern e.g. the user s recurring action of calling his spouse at the particular time on weekdays . Accordingly the next weekday morning at or prior to 9 00 AM the device can provide access to information that is likely relevant to the user such as his spouse s contact information. As such in this example the user does not have to manually search for or navigate to his spouse s contact information in order to initiate a communication with his spouse. Further in some embodiments at or prior to 9 00 AM the device can open or initiate a communication application e.g. phone app messaging app and configure the application to be ready to contact the spouse e.g. input the spouse s contact information into the recipient field of the communication . Therefore the device can attempt to predict what actions the user might next take and provide information relevant to the user s potential next actions thereby reducing the time and effort required by the user to perform the actions.

Other variations functions and advantages are described and suggested below as may be provided in accordance with the various embodiments.

In some instances a user of the computing device can utilize the device for a wide variety of purposes. For example the user can call a friend using the phone app can send an electronic message e.g. text message media message email message etc. to an acquaintance via the messaging app can record and access contact information using the contacts app and so forth.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can enable the computing device to learn from how the device is used. In some embodiments the device can observe and analyze usage data associated with the device in order to learn to recognize patterns in how the device is used e.g. how the device operates . The usage data can include current usage data and or previous i.e. historical usage data. In some cases the user can develop one or more habits or routines in life such as an hourly routine a daily routine a weekly routine a monthly routine an annual routine etc. In one example the user checks his email using the device at approximately 8 07 AM almost every weekday for the past three years. In another example nearly every weekday morning for the past month at approximately 8 22 AM the user gets into his car and opens the map navigation to help him determine what the quickest route to work is. Based on the user s habits and or routines and or other usage data associated with the computing device the device can learn to recognize patterns and or recurring events related to how it is used or operated i.e. usage patterns .

In some embodiments having recognized or determined usage patterns associated with how the device is used and or how it operates the device can attempt to determine i.e. identify predict etc. a task s that can potentially be performed using the computing device at a specified time. In some cases the device can calculate a likelihood of e.g. a confidence score indicating whether or not the task s will be performed using the device within a specified time period e.g. within the next 5 minutes within the next day within the next decade etc. . The potential task s that is determined can be a task that has a likelihood above a specified threshold of being performed at the device within the specified time period e.g. in the near future .

Referring to the previous examples the device can determine with sufficient minimum or satisfactory confidence that the user will probably check email today e.g. a weekday at approximately 8 07 AM. Further the device can determine that the user will likely open the map navigation at approximately 8 22 AM to figure out the quickest way to get to his work. Based on determining i.e. identifying predicting etc. which tasks are likely to be performed at the device at or near the specified time the device can provide recommendations and or other relevant information associated with those tasks that are likely to be performed e.g. initiated by the user at or near the specified time.

Continuing with the previous examples at 8 00 AM the device can make the icon for the email application easier to access for the user . Additionally or alternatively the device can initiate the email application and provide e.g. display at least a portion of an interface for the email application. Moreover the device can begin to check for and or download new emails. As such the user can more easily access his emails and can finish his email checking task more quickly and efficiently. Then at 8 15 AM for example the device can recommend the user to take Highway 101 North to get to work rather than Highway 909 North. In some embodiments the providing of the recommendations and or other information can be performed dynamically and or in real time such that a change in the situation can be handled quickly.

In at least some embodiments the computing device can track record observe and or otherwise obtain usage data associated with the device . In the example of the device can recognize a weekday morning routine for a user of the device. For example on most weekdays in the past two years the user tends to call his spouse at approximately 9 00 AM while driving to work. In the past two months at approximately 9 10 AM the user tends to call his boss to report in. At approximately 9 20 AM for the past three weeks the user has been calling Jane s Coffee shop to order and pick up coffee. When the user arrives at work for the past week he tends to send a text message to his co worker Johnny. Then for the last three days the user has been dialing in to a conference bridge number to attend a teleconference meeting at 10 00 AM. These actions initiated and or performed by the user using the device can be observed or otherwise tracked as usage data of the device .

Continuing with the example of based on the obtained usage data the device can identify a usage pattern which indicates that the user is likely to call his spouse today e.g. Monday Apr. 1 2013 at approximate 9 00 AM e.g. . As such the device can provide contact information for the user s spouse at the top of a recommended contacts list at or prior to 9 00 AM as shown in . Similarly the device can identify another usage pattern indicating that the user will probably call his boss at approximately 9 10 AM. Thus the device can provide the boss s contact information next in the recommended contacts list. Further the device can recognize another usage pattern indicating that the user will probably call Jane s Coffee at approximately 9 20 AM so the device can provide contact information for Jane s Coffee . Also in some embodiments the device can retrieve information from the web e.g. a local business and restaurant guide website and provide the retrieved information to the user. As shown in the address for Jane s Coffee can be provided . In a similar fashion since the user tends to text message Johnny the device can provide Johnny s phone number and email address e.g. retrieved from the device s contacts feature or app in case the user wants to call Johnny. Moreover based on the obtained usage data e.g. including data from a calendar events feature or app of the device the device can recognize that the user will likely attend a teleconference at 10 00 AM and thus provide the relevant conference bridge telephone number . Information at the calendar events feature or app relating to the meeting can also be provided.

Accordingly the user can utilize the recommended contacts feature to find or navigate to likely relevant contact data. This can reduce the need for the user to manually search through his call logs and or through all of his contacts in order to find the relevant information. Also in at least some embodiments the recommended contacts feature can be dynamic such that the recommended contact list can change throughout the day and or due to changes in the user s situation. For example after 9 05 AM and or after the device has determine that the user has already called his spouse the contact information for the user s spouse can be removed from the recommended contacts list and the rest of the contact information can be moved up the list and new contact data can be added as well. In another example if the calendar feature app shows that the teleconference was cancelled the information for the teleconference and can be removed as well.

With reference now to illustrates an example scenario which can utilize relevant information provided based on usage data. Regarding the example scenario a user of a computing device can host a weekly movie night in which she invites friends over to her place to hang out eat and watch a movie. Accordingly as shown in the example scenario can involve among other things the user one or more friends of the user food e.g. delivered pizza take out food etc. a device for watching the movie e.g. a television movie content etc.

In the example of the user can have hosted the movie night on nearly every Friday night for the past year. In this example the device can obtain device usage data including but not limited to how the device is used to make communications e.g. phone calls text messages emails etc. among the user and her friends how the device is used to order food and how accessing a web service to obtain movie related information is performed using the device . Based on the usage data the device can identify usage patterns. In this example the device can recognize that on a typical Friday night the user calls John Dave and Jane at approximately 7 00 PM orders food from Pizza Place at approximately 7 30 PM and accesses web information about movies at approximately 8 00 PM.

In some embodiments based on the identified recognized usage patterns the device can determine i.e. predict etc. one or more tasks that have a sufficient minimum or satisfactory likelihood of being performed at the device e.g. initiated by the user . Thus the device can provide access to relevant information including suggestions or recommendations at or prior to a time when the information may be useful.

Continuing with the example of the device can provide access to the device s phone application and or to contact information for John Dave and Jane at or prior to 7 00 PM when the user typically contacts John Dave and Jane . Likewise at or prior to 7 30 PM the device can retrieve and provide access to information about a restaurant that the user typically orders from. In addition at or prior to 8 00 PM the device can retrieve and provide access to movie information from a website that the user frequents. This and other relevant information provided can improve the efficiency and or ease of access associated with performing the user s tasks.

Again as discussed above the relevant information provided to the user can change dynamically and or in real time. For example if the device detects e.g. using information retrieved from a web resource such as a local restaurant review website that Pizza Place is closed for some reason then the device can provide access to other similar restaurants and or other restaurants that the user had previously ordered from. In another example if an electronic message is received from Jane at 6 40 PM indicating that she cannot attend the movie night then Jane s contact information need not be provided. In a further example if the device determines that the user tends to post a status update on a social networking application an hour into the movie then the device can initiate or otherwise provide easier access to the social networking application at or prior to that time. In another example if the device determines based on device geolocation e.g. GPS data that it is not at or near the user s home address on a Friday night then the device can decide not to provide information and . The device can for example determine other relevant information to provide instead.

Moreover various embodiments can enable communications among multiple devices. Referring to the example of in some embodiments device and device can communicate with one another. In the example scenario perhaps throughout the day the user had been using device to browse the web and she spent a lot of time viewing information about Movie XYZ. Additionally or alternatively the user could have used device to communicate electronically with her friends throughout the day and they could have agreed to watch Movie XYZ. These and other pieces of usage data can be observed obtained and analyzed by device . Device can determine that data related to Movie XYZ is likely relevant for tonight. In some cases device can perform one or more actions using the relevant information e.g. the data related to Movie XYZ . For example device can communicate to device and cause device to begin loading the contents of Movie XYZ prior to when the user typically watches movies e.g. preload at least a portion of Movie XYZ prior to 8 00 PM . This can reduce lag and or buffering time associated with playback of the movie and or other media content . Also the preloading can increase a quality e.g. image quality resolution bit rate audio quality etc. associated with playback of the movie. Furthermore in some embodiments the movie and or other media content can be preloaded on device .

In some embodiments whether the user actually accessed and or used the provided relevant information can be taken into consideration. For example if the user no longer used the provided contact information for Jane for the last three movie nights the device can learn from this pattern and can utilize it as input or feedback such that perhaps next time the device need not provide Jane s contact information.

Turning now to illustrates an example device embodiment at which relevant information can be provided based on usage data. The example computing device embodiment of can utilize one or more geolocation sensors on the device to obtain geolocation information associated with the device . Although not shown in the device can include one or more geolocation sensors such as a GPS sensor a sensor for radio signal multilateration etc.

In the example of the user of computing device frequently meets with his best friend Dave at Joe s Grille on Saturday evenings. The user can be utilizing a map application i.e. app to get to Joe s Grille. As shown in the map app can indicate that the user s current representative geolocation has arrived at the desired destination e.g. Joe s Grille . The device can recognize that the user frequently meets Dave at Joe s Grille on Saturday evenings at or near 5 00 PM . As such at or prior to Saturday 5 00 PM and or upon recognizing that the user e.g. the user s device is at or near Joe s Grille the device can provide relevant information to the user via a notification . The notification can ask the user whether he would like to contact Dave. The user can interact with e.g. click on tap on etc. the notification to cause a communication application e.g. messaging application to be provided to the user as shown in .

Moreover in some embodiments if the device detects that the time is Saturday 5 15 PM that the user has not yet arrived at Joe s Grille and that the user is not on the way then a notification can be provided to the user asking him whether he would like to contact Dave. If the user chooses to contact Dave then the message content can be generated by the device to state for example that the user cannot make it or something similar. Alternatively if the device detects that the user is still on the way then the message content can be generated to say that the user is running late but still on the way or something similar.

In addition in some cases the device of the user can communicate with a computing device associated with Dave. If at least one of the devices determine that its respective geolocation is substantially close in proximity to that of the other but not close to Joe s Grille then the device can recommend another restaurant that is nearby.

In one example the device can recognize that on most Sunday afternoons e.g. at approximately 2 00 PM the user likes to access use play with or otherwise interact with certain applications on the device e.g. Remove Red eye app Vintage Effects app Photo Crop app HD Video app . As such at least a portion of a device home screen page desktop or other interface e.g. operating system interface can be used to provide access to one or more of these applications that are likely to be relevant to the user at or within the specified time e.g. access to one or more recommended applications can be provided at or prior to 2 00 PM on Sunday . The remaining portion can be used to provide access to default applications applications that the user choose to place in the remaining portion etc. Moreover in some cases an entire home screen page or other interface can be used to provide access to e.g. used to display icons representing the one or more relevant applications e.g. recommended applications . Also similar to previous discussions the apps that are recommended and provided can change dynamically.

Step can include determining a computing task having a sufficient likelihood of being initiated by the user to be performed at the computing system. In some cases the computing task can be determined to have a sufficient likelihood of being initiated by the user to be performed at the computing system within a specified or determined time period. In some cases the computing task can be determined based at least in part on the one or more usage patterns. Then the method can provide at least one recommendation associated with performing the computing task at step . In some instances the at least one recommendation can be provided within the specified time period. The at least one recommendation can be useful for improving efficiency associated with performing the computing task. For example the at least one recommendation can decrease an amount of user interactions required to perform the computing task. In other words due to the at least one recommendation less effort on the part of the user is need to perform the computing task.

Step can include determining information that has at least a minimum likelihood of being relevant to a user of the computing device. In some instances the information can be determined to be likely relevant to the user within a specified or determined period of time. In some cases the information can be determined based at least in part on the one or more usage patterns. Then step can include providing access to the information that has the at least the minimum likelihood of being relevant to the user. In some embodiments the access to the information can be provided within the specified period of time. In some instances the information can be useful for improving an efficiency associated with performing a task of the user. The task can be performed using at least in part the computing device. In some cases the task can be performed within the specified period of time.

In some embodiments the obtaining usage data can include accessing information indicative of how the user uses the computing device. For example the information can include but is not limited to at least one of communication data calendar data clock data geolocation data orientation data image data audio data web browsing data network data or application data.

In some embodiments access to the relevant information can be provided via at least one of a page interface e.g. home screen page interface a desktop interface an operating system interface a notification a reminder a calendar event or an application interface etc.

Various embodiments can also enable third party application developers to utilize the present technology. For example application programming interfaces APIs for the present technology can be implemented such that third party applications can utilize one or more features of the present technology. In some cases the user of the device can choose whether or not to allow an app e.g. third party app to have access to the present technology.

It is further contemplated that there can be many other uses and or applications associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure that a person having ordinary skill in the art would recognize.

The example computing device also includes at least one microphone or other audio capture device capable of capturing audio data such as words or commands spoken by a user of the device. In this example a microphone is placed on the same side of the device as the display screen such that the microphone will typically be better able to capture words spoken by a user of the device. In at least some embodiments a microphone can be a directional microphone that captures sound information from substantially directly in front of the microphone and picks up only a limited amount of sound from other directions. It should be understood that a microphone might be located on any appropriate surface of any region face or edge of the device in different embodiments and that multiple microphones can be used for audio recording and filtering purposes etc.

The example computing device also includes at least one orientation sensor such as a position and or movement determining element. Such a sensor can include for example an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation of the computing device as well as small movements of the device. An orientation sensor also can include an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction e.g. north or south in which the device is determined to be pointing e.g. with respect to a primary axis or other such aspect . An orientation sensor also can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. Various embodiments can include one or more such elements in any appropriate combination. As should be understood the algorithms or mechanisms used for determining relative position orientation and or movement can depend at least in part upon the selection of elements available to the device.

In some embodiments the computing device of can include one or more communication elements not shown such as a Wi Fi Bluetooth RF wired or wireless communication system. The device in many embodiments can communicate with a network such as the Internet and may be able to communicate with other such devices. In some embodiments the device can include at least one additional input device able to receive conventional input from a user. This conventional input can include for example a push button touch pad touch screen wheel joystick keyboard mouse keypad or any other such device or element whereby a user can input a command to the device. In some embodiments however such a device might not include any buttons at all and might be controlled only through a combination of visual and audio commands such that a user can control the device without having to be in contact with the device.

The device also can include at least one orientation or motion sensor . As discussed such a sensor can include an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation or an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction in which the device is determined to be facing. The mechanism s also or alternatively can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. The device can include other elements as well such as may enable location determinations through triangulation or another such approach. These mechanisms can communicate with the processor whereby the device can perform any of a number of actions described or suggested herein.

As an example a computing device such as that described with respect to can capture and or track various information for a user over time. This information can include any appropriate information such as location actions e.g. sending a message or creating a document user behavior e.g. how often a user performs a task the amount of time a user spends on a task the ways in which a user navigates through an interface etc. user preferences e.g. how a user likes to receive information open applications submitted requests received calls and the like. As discussed above the information can be stored in such a way that the information is linked or otherwise associated whereby a user can access the information using any appropriate dimension or group of dimensions.

As discussed different approaches can be implemented in various environments in accordance with the described embodiments. For example illustrates an example of an environment for implementing aspects in accordance with various embodiments. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The system includes an electronic client device which can include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network and convey information back to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device and handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log or session data . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of element. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about elements of that type. The information can then be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular element of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

As discussed above the various embodiments can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various aspects also can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service such as may be part of a service oriented architecture. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

