---

title: Therapeutic applications targeting SARM1
abstract: The present disclosure provides methods for reducing axonal and/or synaptic degradation in neurons by modulating sterile α/Armadillo/Toll-Interleukin receptor homology domain protein (SARM) activity and/or expression.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09486521&OS=09486521&RS=09486521
owner: University of Miami
number: 09486521
owner_city: Miami
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131122
---
This application is a divisional and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 530 998 filed on Jun. 22 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 501 111 filed on Jun. 24 2011 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Nos. R01 NS059991 U54NS065712 and R01NS072248 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to compositions and methods for modulating sterile Armadillo Toll Interleukin receptor homology domain protein SARM1 for use in the treatment of neurological disorders that manifest and or include axonal and or synaptic degradation e.g. neurodegenerative disorders .

Widespread axonal and synaptic degeneration is a hallmark of peripheral neuropathy brain injury and neurodegenerative disease. Neurodegeneration and neurodegenerative disorders include progressive structural and or functional loss of nerve cells or neurons in the peripheral nervous system PNS and or central nervous system CNS . Axon degeneration has been proposed to be mediated by an active auto destruction program akin to apoptotic cell death however loss of function mutations capable of potently blocking axon self destruction have not been described.

Axons have traditionally been thought to be strictly dependent upon the cell body for survival as axons robustly degenerate upon separation from the soma Waller Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B Biol. Sci. 140 423 1850 . However this notion was directly challenged by the identification of the slow Wallerian degeneration Wld mutant mouse in which the distal portion of severed axons remained morphologically intact for 2 3 weeks after axotomy Lunn et al. Eur J Neurosci 1 27 1989 Glass et al. J Neurocytol 22 311 1993 . The remarkable long term survival of severed axons in the Wldmouse also raised the intriguing possibility that Wallerian degeneration is driven by an active molecular program akin to apoptotic cell death signaling Raff et al. Science 296 868 2002 Coleman and Perry Trends Neurosci 25 532 2002 . However numerous studies have demonstrated that Wldis a gain of function mutation that results in the neuronal overexpression of a chimeric fusion protein containing the NAD biosynthetic enzyme Nmnat1 Mack et al. Nat Neurosci 4 1199 2001 Coleman and Freeman Annu Rev Neurosci 33 245 2010 . As such the Wldphenotype may be unrelated to normal Nmnat1 function and NAD metabolism despite its ability to inhibit endogenous axon death pathways. Wallerian degeneration appears to be molecularly distinct from apoptosis since potent genetic or chemical inhibitors of cell death Deckwerth and Johnson Jr. Dev Biol 165 63 1994 Finn et al. J Neurosci 20 1333 2000 Whitmore et al. Cell Death Differ 10 260 2003 or the ubiquitin proteasome pathway Zhai et al. Neuron 39 217 2003 Hoopfer et al. Neuron 50 883 2006 do not block Wallerian degeneration. Mutants reported to affect Wallerian degeneration such as wnd DLK delay the clearance of degenerating axons in for only 1 2 days and mouse axons for several hours Miller et al. Nat Neurosci 12 387 2009 an extremely weak degree of suppression when compared to Wld. Thus the existence of axon death pathways has remained only speculative. Compositions and methods for treating neurodegeneration and neurodegenerative disorders in the PNS and CNS are needed.

The present disclosure provides compositions and methods related to the modulation e.g. inhibition of SARM expression and or activity for the treatment of neurodegeneration that manifests and or includes axonal and or synaptic degradation in a subject.

In some aspects the disclosure provides methods for reducing axonal and or synaptic degradation in a neuron. Such methods can include selecting providing or obtaining a neuron with undergoing or at risk for axonal and or synaptic degradation and contacting or treating the neuron with an effective amount of a composition that inhibits sterile Armadillo Toll Interleukin receptor homology domain protein SARM activity and or expression for a time sufficient to inhibit SARM activity and or expression thereby reducing axonal and or synaptic degradation in the neuron. In some embodiments these methods are performed in vitro. In other embodiments the methods are performed in vivo.

In other aspects the disclosure provides methods for reducing axonal and or synaptic degradation in a subject with or at risk for developing axonal and or synaptic degradation for example in the central and or peripheral nervous system. Such methods can include selecting a subject with or at risk for developing axonal and or synaptic degradation and treating the subject with or administering to the subject an effective amount or dose of a composition that inhibits SARM activity and or expression thereby reducing axonal and or synaptic degradation in the subject. In some embodiments subjects suitable for treatment can have or be at risk of developing neurodegenerative disease. In addition such subjects can have or be at risk of developing axonal and or synaptic degradation is in the central and or peripheral nervous system. In some embodiments a subject with or at risk of developing axonal and or synaptic degradation can have diabetes and or diabetic neuropathy e.g. peripheral neuropathy . Alternatively or in addition the subject can be scheduled to receive chemotherapy undergoing chemotherapy and or have previously had chemotherapy.

In further aspects the disclosure includes methods for identifying compounds that inhibit SARM activity and or expression. Such methods can include providing or obtaining a sample containing SARM contacting the sample or SARM with a compound e.g. a test compound and determining whether the test compound interacts with or binds to SARM wherein a compound that interacts or binds with SARM is a candidate compound that inhibits SARM activity and or expression. In some embodiments such methods are performed entirely or partially in silico or bioinformatically e.g. via modeling. In other instances the methods are performed in vitro. For example SARM e.g. isolated SARM portions or SARM or isolated SARM domains are physically contacted with the test compound. Either way the methods can include determining whether the compound interacts with or binds to SARM directly e.g. by assessing the interaction of SARM and the compound in the absence of other components. Alternatively or in addition the methods can include determining whether the compound interacts with or binds to SARM indirectly for example using a component in addition to SARM and the test compound wherein the additional component binds to SARM in the absence of the compound and wherein this binding of the compound to SARM is reduced by a test compound that also binds to SARM.

In yet further aspects the disclosure includes methods for identifying compounds that inhibit SARM activity and or expression that involve providing or obtaining a sample containing SARM contacting the sample containing SARM with a test compound and measuring the transcriptional activity of SARM wherein a decrease in the transcriptional activity of SARM in the presence of the compound indicates that the compound is a candidate compound that inhibits SARM activity and or expression. Measuring the transcriptional activity of SARM can include measuring SARM transcriptional activity e.g. using a genetic reporter construct containing a SARM promoter or a biologically active portion of a SARM promoter operably linked to a reporter such as a nucleic acid sequence encoding a detectable protein e.g. a fluorescent protein e.g. green fluorescent protein or an enzyme such as luciferase e.g. firefly luciferase . Such methods can be high throughput.

In additional aspects the disclosure includes methods for identifying compounds that inhibit SARM activity and or expression that involve contacting or treating a neuron e.g. a cultured neuron with a candidate compound identified via the in silico or in vitro methods disclosed herein e.g. to confirm that the candidate compound reduces axonal and or synaptic degradation in injured neurons. In other embodiments compounds applied in such methods are not first identified via the in silico or in vitro methods disclosed herein. Either way the methods can include injuring the neuron for example by axotomizing the neuron and determining whether axonal and or synaptic degradation is altered in the presence of the candidate compound relative to axonal degradation in the absence of the compound wherein a decrease in axonal and or synaptic degradation indicates that the candidate compound is a compound that inhibits SARM activity and or expression. In some embodiments the neuron is contacted or treated with the compound before injury. In other embodiments the neuron is contacted or treated with the compound after injury.

In other aspects the disclosure includes administering a compound to an animal model of neurodegenerative disease to allow assessment or verification of whether the compound can be used to treat neurodegenerative disease and or whether the compound inhibits SARM activity and or expression in the animal model.

Any of the methods for identifying compounds that modulate SARM can include where appropriate conducting control experiments to confirm positive observation and or to identify and or exclude false positives.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Methods and materials are described herein for use in the present invention other suitable methods and materials known in the art can also be used. The materials methods and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting. All publications patent applications patents sequences database entries and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present specification including definitions will control.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description and figures and from the claims.

The present disclosure is based inter alia on the surprising discovery that the Toll receptor adaptor dSarm sterile Armadillo Toll Interleukin receptor homology domain protein promotes axon destruction and that loss of dSarm function can cell autonomously suppress the degeneration of severed axons for the lifespan of the fly. Pro degenerative Sarm1 function is conserved in mice where transected Sarm1 null axons exhibit remarkable long term survival both in vivo and in vitro. Neurons undergoing axonal and or synaptic degradation e.g. a process known as Wallerian degeneration benefit from the modulation e.g. inhibition of Sterile and HEAT Armadillo Motifs Containing Protein SARM also commonly referred to in the art as MyD88 5 expression and or function. Specifically injured neurons show reduced axonal and synaptic degradation e.g. Wallerian degeneration following injury axotomy when SARM is reduced in the neuron. Furthermore Wallerian degeneration in injured neurons was apparently halted in injured neurons leading to axonal and or synaptic repair. Accordingly the present disclosure provides compositions and methods for treating a subject with or at risk of a neurological disorder that manifests and or includes axonal and or synaptic degradation e.g. Wallerian degeneration by targeting and thereby modulating e.g. inhibiting SARM e.g. SARM1 to reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation in the subject.

Data leading to the present disclosure includes generation and functional analysis of four distinct loss of function genetic mutations that maintain improve or enhance the structure and or function of axons and or synapses post axonal injury in . As shown herein each of the four mutations map to the homologue of mammalian SARM SARM1 dSARM.

dSarm is reportedly most similar to mammalian SARM SARM1 Mink et al. Genomics 74 234 244 2001 . A single SARM gene has been identified in mouse and human and its sequence is conserved among these species. SARM is generally functionally associated with the host immune response. Specifically SARM is reported to be negative regulator of Toll receptor signaling O Neil et al. Trends Immunol. 24 286 290 2003 . Reports also describe a functional role of SARM in the regulation of neuronal survival death. For example murine SARM is reportedly predominantly expressed in neurons and is involved in the regulation of neuronal death in response to oxygen glucose deprivation and exposure of neurons to the Parkinsonian neurotoxin 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridine MPTP Kim et al. JEM 204 2063 2074 2007 and Kim et al. Abstract from the Toll2008 meeting conducted in Lisbon Portugal from Sep. 24 27 2008 entitled Distinctive role of MyD88 5 SARM in neurodegeneration and host defense . A role for SARM has also been described in neuronal development Yuan et al. J. Immunol. 184 6874 6881 2010 . Reviews on this subject are available see e.g. Dalod Science Signaling 417 1 3 2007 .

The disclosure includes compositions and methods for modulating e.g. inhibiting SARM expression e.g. protein and or nucleic acid mRNA expression and or activity e.g. protein activity . Such compositions and methods generally include targeting e.g. specifically targeting SARM DNA mRNA and or protein to thereby modulate e.g. inhibit SARM mRNA and or protein expression and or function. In some instances targeting e.g. specifically targeting SARM can include targeting e.g. specifically targeting SARM in a neuron including in the neuronal cell body in an axon in a synapse and or in a dendrite. SARM can additionally be targeted in non neuronal cells including cells of the immune system as long as SARM is targeted in a neuron including in the neuronal cell body in an axon in a synapse and or in a dendrite.

SARM included in the present disclosure includes and mammalian e.g. mouse and human e.g. SARM1 SARM DNA mRNA and or protein including full length transcripts and proteins truncated transcripts and proteins e.g. truncated SARM transcripts and proteins that exhibit or have detectable SARM activity and or mutant or mutated SARM transcripts and protein truncated or otherwise e.g. that exhibit or have detectable SARM activity . The term SARM also refers to and includes synonyms of SARM synonyms can be viewed at e.g. ihop net.org .

In some instances SARM can include SEQ ID NO 1 human SARM1 mRNA national center for biotechnology information NCBI accession number NM 015077 NM 015077.2 SEQ ID NO 2 human SARM1 protein NCBI accession number NP 055892 NP 055892.2 SEQ ID NO 3 murine SARM1 mRNA isoform 1 NCBI accession number NM 001168521 NM 001168521.1 SEQ ID NO 4 murine SARM1 protein isoform 1 NCBI accession number NP 001161993 NP 001161993.1 SEQ ID NO 5 murine SARM1 mRNA isoform 2 NCBI accession number NM 172795 NM 172795.3 and or SEQ ID NO 6 murine SARM1 protein isoform 2 NCBI accession number NP 766383 NP 766383.2 . Accordingly the present disclosure provides compositions and methods for treating a subject with or at risk of a neurological disorder that manifests and or includes axonal and or synaptic degradation by targeting e.g. specifically targeting one or more of SEQ ID NOs 1 2 3 4 5 and or 6 in a neuron including in the neuronal cell body in an axon in a synapse and or in a dendrite thereby modulating e.g. inhibiting SARM e.g. SARM1 to reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation in the subject.

SARM can also include SARM like nucleic acid and amino acid sequences with certain percent identity to SEQ ID NOs 1 2 3 4 5 and or 6. Suitable identity can include for example 50 60 70 80 85 90 95 98 99 and 100 identity between SEQ ID NOs 1 2 3 4 5 and or 6 and the SARM like sequence.

Methods for determining percent identity between nucleic acid and amino acid sequences are known in the art. For example the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes e.g. gaps can be introduced in one or both of a first and a second amino acid or nucleic acid sequence for optimal alignment and non homologous sequences can be disregarded for comparison purposes . In a preferred embodiment the length of a reference sequence aligned for comparison purposes is at least 30 preferably at least 40 more preferably at least 50 even more preferably at least 60 and even more preferably at least 70 80 90 or 100 of the length of the reference sequence. The amino acid residues or nucleotides at corresponding amino acid positions or nucleotide positions are then compared. When a position in the first sequence is occupied by the same amino acid residue or nucleotide as the corresponding position in the second sequence then the molecules are identical at that position. The determination of percent identity between two amino acid sequences is accomplished using the BLAST 2.0 program. Sequence comparison is performed using an ungapped alignment and using the default parameters Blossom 62 matrix gap existence cost of 11 per residue gapped cost of 1 and a lambda ratio of 0.85 . The mathematical algorithm used in BLAST programs is described in Altschul et al. Nucleic Acids Res. 25 3389 3402 1997 .

Compositions for modulating SARM expression and or activity can include but are not limited to one or more of small molecules inhibitory nucleic acids antibodies and inhibitory peptides. For example one or more of a small molecule an inhibitory nucleic acid an anti SARM antibody and or an inhibitory nucleic acid can be used to target e.g. specifically target SARM e.g. SEQ ID NOs 1 2 3 4 5 and or 6 in a neuron including in the neuronal cell body in an axon in a synapse and or in a dendrite thereby modulating e.g. inhibiting SARM e.g. SARM1 to reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation in the subject.

Suitable small molecules include small molecules that inhibit SARM expression and or activity directly indirectly or both directly and indirectly. Suitable small molecules include small molecules that bind e.g. bind specifically to SARM and thereby inhibit SARM expression and or activity and or small molecules that do not bind to SARM or that bind to SARM with low affinity but that inhibit SARM expression and or activity by binding to a component of the SARM signaling pathway upstream or downstream of SARM.

Inhibitory Nucleic Acids suitable for use in the methods described herein include inhibitory nucleic acids that bind e.g. bind specifically to SARM. Also encompassed are inhibitory nucleic acids that bind e.g. bind specifically to a component of the SARM signaling pathway upstream or downstream of SARM. Exemplary inhibitory nucleic acids include but are not limited to siRNA and antisense nucleic acids. For example the disclosure includes siRNA and antisense nucleic acids that target or bind e.g. specifically target or specifically bind to SARM mRNA e.g. SEQ ID NOs 1 3 and or 5 and or a nucleic acid sequence encoding SEQ ID NOs 2 4 or 6 in a neuron including in the neuronal cell body in an axon in a synapse and or in a dendrite thereby modulating e.g. inhibiting SARM e.g. SARM1 to reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation in the subject.

RNAi is a process whereby double stranded RNA dsRNA also referred to herein as siRNAs or ds siRNAs for double stranded small interfering RNAs induces the sequence specific degradation of homologous mRNA in animals and plant cells Hutvagner and Zamore Curr. Opin. Genet. Dev. 12 225 232 2002 Sharp Genes Dev. 15 485 490 2001 . In mammalian cells RNAi can be triggered by 21 nucleotide nt duplexes of small interfering RNA siRNA Chiu et al Mol. Cell. 10 549 561 2002 Elbashir et al Nature 411 494 498 2001 or by micro RNAs miRNA functional small hairpin RNA shRNA or other dsRNAs which are expressed in vivo using DNA templates with RNA polymerase III promoters Zeng et al Mol. Cell 9 1327 1333 2002 Paddison et al Genes Dev. 16 948 958 2002 Lee et al Nature Biotechnol. 20 500 505 2002 Paul et al Nature Biotechnol. 20 505 508 2002 Tuschl T. Nature Biotechnol. 20 440 448 2002 Yu et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 9 6047 6052 2002 McManus et al RNA 8 842 850 2002 Sui et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 6 5515 5520 2002 .

RNAi useful for inhibiting SARM can include dsRNA molecules comprising 16 30 e.g. 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 nucleotides in each strand wherein one of the strands is substantially identical e.g. at least 80 or more e.g. 85 90 95 or 100 identical e.g. having 3 2 1 or 0 mismatched nucleotide s to a target region in the mRNA and the other strand is complementary to the first strand. The dsRNA molecules can be chemically synthesized or can be transcribed in vitro from a DNA template or in vivo from e.g. shRNA. The dsRNA molecules can be designed using any method known in the art a number of algorithms are known and are commercially available. Gene walk methods can be used to optimize the inhibitory activity of the siRNA Inhibitory nucleic acids can include both siRNA and modified siRNA derivatives e.g. siRNAs modified to alter a property such as the pharmacokinetics of the composition for example to increase half life in the body as well as engineered RNAi precursors.

siRNA can be delivered into cells by methods known in the art e.g. cationic liposome transfection and electroporation. Direct delivery of siRNA in saline or other excipients can silence target genes in tissues such as the eye lung and central nervous system Bitko et al. Nat. Med. 11 50 55 2005 Shen et al. Gene Ther. 13 225 234 2006 Thakker et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2004 . In adult mice efficient delivery of siRNA can be accomplished by high pressure delivery technique a rapid injection within 5 seconds of a large volume of siRNA containing solution into animal via the tail vein Liu 1999 supra McCaffrey 2002 supra Lewis Nature Genetics 32 107 108 2002 . Liposomes and nanoparticles can also be used to deliver siRNA into animals. Delivery methods using liposomes e.g. stable nucleic acid lipid particles SNALPs dioleoyl phosphatidylcholine DOPC based delivery system as well as lipoplexes e.g. Lipofectamine 2000 TransIT TKO have been shown to effectively repress target mRNA de Fougerolles Human Gene Ther. 19 125 132 2008 Landen et al. Cancer Res. 65 6910 6918 2005 Luo et al. Mol. Pain. 1 29 2005 Zimmermann et al. Nature 441 111 114 2006 . Conjugating siRNA to peptides RNA aptamers antibodies or polymers e.g. dynamic polyconjugates cyclodextrin based nanoparticles atelocollagen and chitosan can improve siRNA stability and or uptake. Howard et al. Mol. Ther. 14 476 484 2006 Hu Lieskovan et al. Cancer Res. 65 8984 8992 2005 Kumar et al. Nature 448 39 43 McNamara et al. Nat. Biotechnol. 24 1005 1015 2007 Rozema et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 104 12982 12987 2007 Song et al. Nat. Biotechnol. 23 709 717 2005 Soutschek 2004 supra Wolfium et al. Nat. Biotechnol. 25 1149 1157 2007 . Viral mediated delivery mechanisms can also be used to induce specific silencing of targeted genes through expression of siRNA for example by generating recombinant adenoviruses harboring siRNA under RNA Pol II promoter transcription control Xia et al. 2002 supra . Infection of HeLa cells by these recombinant adenoviruses allows for diminished endogenous target gene expression. Injection of the recombinant adenovirus vectors into transgenic mice expressing the target genes of the siRNA results in in vivo reduction of target gene expression. Id. In an animal model whole embryo electroporation can efficiently deliver synthetic siRNA into post implantation mouse embryos Calegari et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 22 14236 40 2002 .

siRNA duplexes can be expressed within cells from engineered RNAi precursors e.g. recombinant DNA constructs using mammalian Pol III promoter systems e.g. HI or U6 snRNA promoter systems Tuschl 2002 supra capable of expressing functional double stranded siRNAs Bagella et al J. Cell. Physiol. 177 206 213 1998 Lee et al. 2002 supra Miyagishi et al. 2002 supra Paul et al. 2002 supra Yu et al. 2002 supra Sui et al. 2002 supra . Transcriptional termination by RNA Pol III occurs at runs of four consecutive T residues in the DNA template providing a mechanism to end the siRNA transcript at a specific sequence. The siRNA is complementary to the sequence of the target gene in 5 3 and 3 5 orientations and the two strands of the siRNA can be expressed in the same construct or in separate constructs. Hairpin siRNAs driven by HI or U6 snRNA promoter and expressed in cells can inhibit target gene expression Bagella et al. 1998 supra Lee et al. 2002 supra Miyagishi et al. 2002 supra Paul et al. 2002 supra Yu et al. 2002 supra Sui et al. 2002 supra . Constructs containing siRNA sequence under the control of T7 promoter also make functional siRNAs when cotransfected into the cells with a vector expression T7 RNA polymerase Jacque 2002 supra .

Synthetic siRNAs can be delivered into cells e.g. by direct delivery cationic liposome transfection and electroporation. However these exogenous siRNA typically only show short term persistence of the silencing effect 4.about.5 days . Several strategies for expressing siRNA duplexes within cells from recombinant DNA constructs allow longer term target gene suppression in cells including mammalian Pol II and III promoter systems e.g. H1 U1 or U6 snRNA promoter systems Denti et al. 2004 supra Tuschl 2002 supra capable of expressing functional double stranded siRNAs Bagella et al. J. Cell. Physiol. 177 206 213 1998 Lee et al. 2002 supra Miyagishi et al. 2002 supra Paul et al. 2002 supra Scherer et al. 2007 supra Yu et al. 2002 supra Sui et al. 2002 supra .

Transcriptional termination by RNA Pol III occurs at runs of four consecutive T residues in the DNA template providing a mechanism to end the siRNA transcript at a specific sequence. The siRNA is complementary to the sequence of the target gene in 5 3 and 3 5 orientations and the two strands of the siRNA can be expressed in the same construct or in separate constructs. Hairpin siRNAs driven by H1 or U6 snRNA promoter and expressed in cells can inhibit target gene expression Bagella et al. 1998 supra Lee et al. 2002 supra Miyagishi et al. 2002 supra Paul et al. 2002 supra Yu et al. 2002 supra Sui et al. 2002 supra . Constructs containing siRNA sequence under the control of T7 promoter also make functional siRNAs when cotransfected into the cells with a vector expression T7 RNA polymerase Jacque 2002 supra .

siRNA can also be expressed in a miRNA backbone which can be transcribed by either RNA Pol II or III. MicroRNAs are endogenous noncoding RNAs of approximately 22 nucleotides in animals and plants that can post transcriptionally regulate gene expression Bartel 116 281 297 2004 Valencia Sanchez et al. Genes Dev. 20 515 524 2006 . One common feature of miRNAs is that they are excised from an approximately 70 nucleotide precursor RNA stem loop by Dicer an RNase III enzyme or a homolog thereof. By substituting the stem sequences of the miRNA precursor with the sequence complementary to the target mRNA a vector construct can be designed to produce siRNAs to initiate RNAi against specific mRNA targets in mammalian cells. When expressed by DNA vectors containing polymerase II or III promoters miRNA designed hairpins can silence gene expression McManus 2002 supra Zeng 2002 supra .

Engineered RNA precursors introduced into cells or whole organisms as described herein will lead to the production of a desired siRNA molecule. Such an siRNA molecule will then associate with endogenous protein components of the RNAi pathway to bind to and target a specific mRNA sequence for cleavage destabilization and or translation inhibition destruction. In this fashion the mRNA to be targeted by the siRNA generated from the engineered RNA precursor will be depleted from the cell or organism leading to a decrease in the concentration of the protein encoded by that mRNA in the cell or organism.

An antisense nucleic acid can include a nucleotide sequence that is complementary to a sense nucleic acid encoding a protein e.g. complementary to the coding strand of a double stranded cDNA molecule or complementary to a PKCd mRNA sequence. The antisense nucleic acid can be complementary to an entire coding strand of a target sequence or to only a portion thereof. In another embodiment the antisense nucleic acid molecule is antisense to a noncoding region of the coding strand of a nucleotide sequence e.g. the 5 and 3 untranslated regions .

An antisense nucleic acid can be designed such that it is complementary to the entire coding region of a target mRNA but can also be an oligonucleotide that is antisense to only a portion of the coding or noncoding region of the target mRNA. For example the antisense oligonucleotide can be complementary to the region surrounding the translation start site of the target mRNA e.g. between the 10 and 10 regions of the target gene nucleotide sequence of interest. An antisense oligonucleotide can be for example about 7 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 or more nucleotides in length.

An antisense nucleic acid can be constructed using chemical synthesis and enzymatic ligation reactions using procedures known in the art. For example an antisense nucleic acid e.g. an antisense oligonucleotide can be chemically synthesized using naturally occurring nucleotides or variously modified nucleotides designed to increase the biological stability of the molecules or to increase the physical stability of the duplex formed between the antisense and sense nucleic acids e.g. phosphorothioate derivatives and acridine substituted nucleotides can be used. The antisense nucleic acid also can be produced biologically using an expression vector into which a nucleic acid has been subcloned in an antisense orientation i.e. RNA transcribed from the inserted nucleic acid will be of an antisense orientation to a target nucleic acid of interest described further in the following subsection . Based upon the sequences disclosed herein one of skill in the art can easily choose and synthesize any of a number of appropriate antisense molecules for use in accordance with the present invention. For example a gene walk comprising a series of oligonucleotides of 15 30 nucleotides spanning the length of a target nucleic acid can be prepared followed by testing for inhibition of target gene expression. Optionally gaps of 5 10 nucleotides can be left between the oligonucleotides to reduce the number of oligonucleotides synthesized and tested. Such methods can also be used to identify siRNAs.

In some embodiments the antisense nucleic acid molecule is a cc anomeric nucleic acid molecule. A cc anomeric nucleic acid molecule forms specific double stranded hybrids with complementary RNA in which contrary to the usual units the strands run parallel to each other Gaultier et al. Nucleic Acids. Res. 15 6625 6641 1987 . The antisense nucleic acid molecule can also comprise a 2 o methylribonucleotide Inoue et al. Nucleic Acids Res. 15 6131 6148 1987 or a chimeric RNA DNA analogue Inoue et al. FEBS Lett. 215 327 330 1987 .

In some embodiments the antisense nucleic acid is a morpholino oligonucleotide see e.g. Heasman Dev. Biol. 243 209 14 2002 Iversen Curr. Opin. Mol. Ther. 3 235 8 2001 Summerton Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 1489 141 58 1999 .

Target gene expression can be inhibited by targeting nucleotide sequences complementary to a regulatory region e.g. promoters and or enhancers to form triple helical structures that prevent transcription of the Spt5 gene in target cells. See generally Helene Anticancer Drug Des. 6 569 84 1991 Helene C. Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 660 27 36 1992 and Maher Bioassays 14 807 15 1992 . The potential sequences that can be targeted for triple helix formation can be increased by creating a so called switchback nucleic acid molecule. Switchback molecules are synthesized in an alternating 5 3 3 5 manner such that they base pair with first one strand of a duplex and then the other eliminating the necessity for a sizeable stretch of either purines or pyrimidines to be present on one strand of a duplex.

Antisense nucleic acid molecules of the invention can be administered to a subject e.g. by direct injection at a tissue site or generated in situ such that they hybridize with or bind to cellular mRNA and or genomic DNA encoding a target protein to thereby inhibit expression of the protein e.g. by inhibiting transcription and or translation. Alternatively antisense nucleic acid molecules can be modified to target selected cells and then administered systemically. For systemic administration antisense molecules can be modified such that they specifically bind to receptors or antigens expressed on a selected cell surface e.g. by linking the antisense nucleic acid molecules to peptides or antibodies that bind to cell surface receptors or antigens. The antisense nucleic acid molecules can also be delivered to cells using the vectors described herein. To achieve sufficient intracellular concentrations of the antisense molecules vector constructs in which the antisense nucleic acid molecule is placed under the control of a strong pol II or pol III promoter can be used.

Additional information regarding antisense technologies and their use in vivo can be found in Crooke Antisense Drug Technology Principles Strategies and Applications CRC Press 2007 .

LNAs comprise ribonucleic acid analogues wherein the ribose ring is locked by a methylene bridge between the 2 oxygen and the 4 carbon i.e. oligonucleotides containing at least one LNA monomer that is one 2 O 4 C methylene D ribofuranosyl nucleotide. LNA bases form standard Watson Crick base pairs but the locked configuration increases the rate and stability of the basepairing reaction Jepsen et al. Oligonucleotides 14 130 146 2004 . LNAs also have increased affinity to base pair with RNA as compared to DNA. These properties render LNAs especially useful as probes for fluorescence in situ hybridization FISH and comparative genomic hybridization as knockdown tools for miRNAs and as antisense oligonucleotides to block mRNA translation.

The LNA molecules can include molecules comprising 10 30 e.g. 12 24 e.g. 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 nucleotides in each strand wherein one of the strands is substantially identical e.g. at least 80 or more e.g. 85 90 95 or 100 identical e.g. having 3 2 1 or 0 mismatched nucleotide s to a target region in the lncRNA. The LNA molecules can be chemically synthesized using methods known in the art.

The LNA molecules can be designed using any method known in the art a number of algorithms are known and are commercially available e.g. on the internet for example at exiqon.com . See e.g. You et al. Nuc. Acids. Res. 34 e60 2006 McTigue et al. Biochemistry 43 5388 405 2004 and Levin et al. Nuc. Acids. Res. 34 e142 2006 . For example gene walk methods similar to those used to design antisense oligos can be used to optimize the inhibitory activity of the LNA for example a series of oligonucleotides of 10 30 nucleotides spanning the length of a target lncRNA can be prepared followed by testing for activity. Optionally gaps e.g. of 5 10 nucleotides or more can be left between the LNAs to reduce the number of oligonucleotides synthesized and tested. GC content is preferably between about 30 60 . General guidelines for designing LNAs are known in the art for example LNA sequences will bind very tightly to other LNA sequences so it is preferable to avoid significant complementarity within an LNA. Contiguous runs of three or more Gs or Cs or more than four LNA residues should be avoided where possible for example it may not be possible with very short e.g. about 9 10 nt oligonucleotides . In some embodiments the LNAs are xylo LNAs.

In some embodiments the LNA molecules can be designed to target a specific region of the lncRNA. For example a specific functional region can be targeted e.g. a region comprising a known RNA localization motif i.e. a region complementary to the target nucleic acid on which the lncRNA acts or a region comprising a known protein binding region e.g. a Polycomb e.g. Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 PRC2 comprised of H3K27 methylase EZH2 SUZ12 and EED or LSD1 CoREST REST complex binding region see e.g. Tsai et al. Science. 2010 Aug. 6 329 5992 689 93. Epub 2010 Jul. 8 and Zhao et al. Science. 2008 Oct. 31 322 5902 750 6 . Alternatively or in addition highly conserved regions can be targeted e.g. regions identified by aligning sequences from disparate species such as primate e.g. human and rodent e.g. mouse and looking for regions with high degrees of identity. Percent identity can be determined routinely using basic local alignment search tools BLAST programs Altschul et al. J. Mol. Biol. 1990 215 403 410 Zhang and Madden Genome Res. 1997 7 649 656 e.g. using the default parameters.

For additional information regarding LNAs see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 268 490 6 734 291 6 770 748 6 794 499 7 034 133 7 053 207 7 060 809 7 084 125 and 7 572 582 and U.S. Pre Grant Pub. Nos. 20100267018 20100261175 and 20100035968 Koshkin et al. Tetrahedron 54 3607 3630 1998 Obika et al. Tetrahedron Lett. 39 5401 5404 1998 Jepsen et al. Oligonucleotides 14 130 146 2004 Kauppinen et al. Drug Disc. Today 2 3 287 290 2005 and Ponting et al. Cell 136 4 629 641 2009 and references cited therein.

Ribozymes suitable for use in methods encompassed by the present disclosure include ribozymes that recognize and or cleave SARM and or components of the SARM signaling pathway upstream or downstream of SARM. For example the disclosure includes ribozymes that recognize and or cleave SARM mRNA e.g. SEQ ID NOs 1 3 and or 5 and or a nucleic acid sequence encoding SEQ ID NOs 2 4 or 6 in a neuron including in the neuronal cell body in an axon in a synapse and or in a dendrite thereby modulating e.g. inhibiting SARM e.g. SARM1 to reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation in the subject.

Ribozymes are a type of RNA that can be engineered to enzymatically cleave and inactivate other RNA targets in a specific sequence dependent fashion. By cleaving the target RNA ribozymes inhibit translation thus preventing the expression of the target gene. Ribozymes can be chemically synthesized in the laboratory and structurally modified to increase their stability and catalytic activity using methods known in the art. Alternatively ribozyme genes can be introduced into cells through gene delivery mechanisms known in the art. A ribozyme having specificity for a target nucleic acid can include one or more sequences complementary to the nucleotide sequence of a cDNA described herein and a sequence having known catalytic sequence responsible for mRNA cleavage see U.S. Pat. No. 5 093 246 or Haselhoff and Gerlach Nature 334 585 591 1988 . For example a derivative of a Tetrahymena L 19 IVS RNA can be constructed in which the nucleotide sequence of the active site is complementary to the nucleotide sequence to be cleaved in a target mRNA Cech et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 987 071 and Cech et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 742 . Alternatively target mRNA can be used to select a catalytic RNA having a specific ribonuclease activity from a pool of RNA molecules Bartel and Szostak Science 261 1411 1418 1993 .

Aptamers suitable for use in methods encompassed by the present disclosure include aptamers that bind e.g. bind specifically to SARM and or components of the SARM signaling pathway upstream or downstream of SARM. For example the disclosure includes aptamers that bind e.g. bind specifically to SARM amino acid sequences e.g. SEQ ID NOs 2 4 and or 6 in a neuron including in the neuronal cell body in an axon in a synapse and or in a dendrite thereby modulating e.g. inhibiting SARM e.g. SARM1 to reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation in the subject.

Aptamers are short oligonucleotide sequences which can specifically bind specific proteins. It has been demonstrated that different aptameric sequences can bind specifically to different proteins for example the sequence GGNNGG where N guanosine G cytosine C adenosine A or thymidine T binds specifically to thrombin Bock et al 1992 Nature 355 564 566 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 582 981 1996 Toole et al . Methods for selection and preparation of such R A aptamers are knotn in the art see e.g. Famulok Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 9 324 1999 Herman and Patel J. Science 287 820 825 2000 Kelly et al J. Mol. Biol. 256 417 1996 and Feigon et al Chem. Biol. 3 611 1996 .

The present disclosure also includes methods that include the use or administration of antibodies and antibody fragments that bind e.g. bind specifically to SARM e.g. SEQ ID NOs 2 4 and or 6 and or an epitope presented on native SARM e.g. SEQ ID NOs 2 4 and or 6 and thereby inhibit SARM activity in a neuron. Antibodies and antibody fragments that bind e.g. bind specifically epitopes expressed e.g. specifically expressed on the surface of a neuron such that when the epitope is bound by the antibody SARM expression and or activity is reduced are also included in the present disclosure.

Also included in the present disclosure are methods that include the use or administration of inhibitory peptides that bind e.g. bind specifically to SARM or interact with SARM and thereby inhibit SARM activity and or expression in a neuron. Such peptides can bind or interact with an epitope on SARM and or with a SARM domain. SARM domains that can be bound by inhibitory peptides include but are not limited to the alpha helical domain e.g. including the interacting face of the SARM helix and or the TIR domain. Suitable inhibitory peptides can that bind or interact with SARM can also be used to increase SARM degradation for example by increasing ubiquitination and or proteosomal degradation of SARM.

Antibodies and inhibitory peptides can be modified to facilitate cellular uptake or increase in vivo stability. For example acylation or PEGylation facilitates cellular uptake increases bioavailability increases blood circulation alters pharmacokinetics decreases immunogenicity and or decreases the needed frequency of administration.

Methods for synthesizing suitable peptides are known in the art. For example the peptides of this invention can be made by chemical synthesis methods which are well known to the ordinarily skilled artisan. See for example Fields et al. Chapter 3 in Synthetic Peptides A User s Guide ed. Grant W. H. Freeman Co. New York N.Y. 1992 p. 77. Hence peptides can be synthesized using the automated Merrifield techniques of solid phase synthesis with the NH2 protected by either t Boc or Fmoc chemistry using side chain protected amino acids on for example an Applied Biosystems Peptide Synthesizer Model 430A or 431.

The terms effective amount and effective to treat as used herein refer to an amount or a concentration of one or more compounds or a pharmaceutical composition described herein utilized for a period of time including acute or chronic administration and periodic or continuous administration that is effective within the context of its administration for causing an intended effect or physiological outcome.

Effective amounts of one or more compounds or a pharmaceutical composition for use in the present invention include amounts that inhibit SARM expression levels e.g. protein levels and or activity e.g. biological activity in neurons. An effective amount can also include an amount that inhibits or prevents Wallerian degeneration e.g. axonal and or synaptic degradation in a neuron. For example in the treatment of neurodegeneration an effective amount of a compound includes a compound in an amount that improves to any degree or arrests any symptom of the disease. A therapeutically effective amount of a compound is not required to cure a disease but will provide a treatment for a disease.

In some embodiments the present disclosure provides methods for using any one or more of the compositions indicated below as X disclosed herein in the following methods 

Substance X for use as a medicament in the treatment of one or more diseases or conditions disclosed herein e.g. cancer referred to in the following examples as Y . Use of substance X for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of Y and substance X for use in the treatment of Y.

Pharmaceutical compositions typically include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein the language pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes saline solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like compatible with pharmaceutical administration.

Pharmaceutical compositions are typically formulated to be compatible with its intended route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include systemic and local routes of administration. Exemplary routes include but are not limited to parenteral e.g. intravenous intradermal subcutaneous oral e.g. inhalation transdermal topical and transmucosal administration. Methods of formulating suitable pharmaceutical compositions for each of these routes of administration are known in the art see e.g. the books in the series Drugs and the Pharmaceutical Sciences a Series of Textbooks and Monographs Dekker NY .

The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container pack or dispenser together with instructions for administration

Effective amounts are discussed above. An effective amount can be administered in one or more administrations applications or dosages. A therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound i.e. an effective dosage depends on the therapeutic compounds selected. The compositions can be administered one from one or more times per day to one or more times per week including once every other day. The skilled artisan will appreciate that certain factors may influence the dosage and timing required to effectively treat a subject including but not limited to the severity of the disease or disorder previous treatments the general health and or age of the subject and other diseases present. Moreover treatment of a subject with a therapeutically effective amount of the therapeutic compounds described herein can include a single treatment or a series of treatments.

Dosage toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of the therapeutic compounds can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals e.g. for determining the LD50 the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the ED50 the dose therapeutically effective in 50 of the population . The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as the ratio LD50 ED50. Compounds which exhibit high therapeutic indices are preferred. While compounds that exhibit toxic side effects may be used care should be taken to design a delivery system that targets such compounds to the site of affected tissue in order to minimize potential damage to uninfected cells and thereby reduce side effects.

The data obtained from cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of such compounds lies preferably within a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED50 with little or no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized. For any compound used in the method of the invention the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays. A dose may be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that includes the IC50 i.e. the concentration of the test compound which achieves a half maximal inhibition of symptoms as determined in cell culture. Such information can be used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Levels in plasma may be measured for example by high performance liquid chromatography. Pharmaceutical Compositions and Methods of Administration

The disclosure includes methods for treating a subject with or at risk of a neurological disorder that manifests and or includes axonal and or synaptic degradation e.g. Wallerian degeneration with a composition disclosed herein to target and thereby modulate e.g. inhibit SARM e.g. SARM1 to reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation in the subject.

As used herein treatment means any manner in which one or more of the symptoms of a disease or disorder disclosed herein are ameliorated or otherwise beneficially altered. As used herein amelioration of the symptoms of a particular disorder refers to any lessening whether permanent or temporary lasting or transient that can be attributed to or associated with treatment by the compositions and methods of the present invention. In some embodiments treatment can promote or result in for example a decrease in the level or rate of axonal and or synaptic degradation e.g. Wallerian degeneration in the subject relative to the level or rate prior to treatment and or reductions in one or more symptoms e.g. a reduction in the severity of the symptoms associated with the subject s disease in the subject relative to the subject s symptoms prior to treatment.

As mentioned above neurodegeneration and neurodegenerative disorders include progressive structural and or functional loss of nerve cells or neurons in the peripheral nervous system PNS and or central nervous system CNS . Many degenerative diseases or conditions are known to manifest and or include axonal and or synaptic degradation e.g. Wallerian degeneration and each of these diseases is suitable for treatment using the compositions and methods disclosed herein. Examples of neurodegenerative diseases that can be treated using the compositions and methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to the classes of disease central nervous system CNS disorders peripheral nervous system PNS disorders trauma related disorders including trauma to the head the spine and or the PNS genetic disorders metabolic and or endocrine related disorders e.g. peripheral neuropathy in diabetes toxin related disorders e.g. peripheral neuropathy induced by toxins including chemotherapeutic agents inflammatory disease exposure to excess vitamin vitamin deficiency and cardiovascular related disorders e.g. stroke . Examples of these classes include but are not limited to the following diseases and or causes of disease Huntington s disease Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS axonal abnormalities e.g. Wallerian degeneration age related neurodegeneration including for example dementia dementia pugilistica or so called punch drunk syndrome shaken baby syndrome spinal cord injuries including injuries attributable to stretching bruising applying pressure severing and laceration peripheral neuropathy disease or trauma Friedreich s ataxia Charcot Marie Tooth syndrome diabetic neuropathy diabetes mellitus chronic renal failure porphyria amyloidosis liver failure hypothyroidism exposure to certain drugs toxins including for example vincristine phenyloin nitrofurantoin isoniazid ethyl alcohol and or chemotherapeutic agents organic metals heavy metals fluoroquinolone drugs excess intake of vitamin B6 pyridoxine Guillain Barr syndrome systemic lupus erythematosis leprosy Sj gren s syndrome Lyme Disease sarcoidosis polyglutamine so called polyQ diseases Kennedy disease Spinocerebellar ataxia Types 1 2 3 6 7 and or 17 non polyglutamine diseases vitamin e.g. vitamin B12 cyanocobalamin vitamin A vitamin E vitamin B1 thiamin deficiency exposure to physical trauma e.g. exposure to compression pinching cutting projectile injuries i.e. gunshot wound shingles malignant disease HIV radiation and chemotherapy.

The disclosure includes treating subjects with or at risk of diabetic neuropathy with the compositions disclosed herein to target and thereby modulate e.g. inhibit SARM e.g. SARM1 to reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation in the subject. Diabetic neuropathies are a family of nerve disorders caused by diabetes. About 60 to 70 percent of people with diabetes have some form of neuropathy. The incidence of neuropathy correlates with duration of disease. The highest rates of neuropathy are among people who have had diabetes for at least 25 years. Diabetic neuropathies also appear to be more common in people who have problems controlling their blood glucose also called blood sugar as well as those with high levels of blood fat and blood pressure and those who are overweight. Symptoms of diabetic neuropathy can include pain tingling or numbness loss of feeling in the hands arms feet and legs. Nerve problems can occur in every organ system including the digestive tract heart and sex organs.

The disclosure includes treating subjects scheduled to undergo and or undergoing chemotherapy with the compositions disclosed herein to target and thereby modulate e.g. inhibit SARM e.g. SARM1 to reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation in the subject.

The present disclosure includes selecting a subject for treatment e.g. a subject with or at risk of a neurological disorder that manifests and or includes axonal and or synaptic degradation e.g. Wallerian degeneration e.g. a disorder selected from the exemplary list provided above and administering to the selected subject an effective amount of a composition disclosed herein.

The term subject is used throughout the specification to describe an animal human or non human to whom treatment according to the methods of the present invention is provided. Veterinary and non veterinary applications are contemplated. Subject selection can include diagnosis and or referral by a physician or other qualified medical profession and self referral by the subject to be treated. In some instances methods can include selecting a subject with one or more of the classes of disease disclosed above. Alternatively or in addition methods can include selecting a subject with one or more of the diseases disclosed above or selecting a subject that has been exposed to a medical event an environmental condition or factor and or a toxin known to be associated with an increased risk of or development of neurodegenerative disease. For example in some instances methods can include selecting a subject at risk of diabetic neuropathy e.g. a subject with diabetes mellitus or a subject with diabetic neuropathy. Methods can also include selecting a subject scheduled to undergo and or undergoing chemotherapy or treatment with a toxin associated with neurodegeneration.

In some embodiments the subject is in an early stage of disease e.g. does not have advanced disease associated with complete neuronal death.

In some embodiments the compositions and methods described herein do not include treatment of a subject with neurodegenerative disease attributable to oxygen and or glucose deprivation e.g. stroke or Parkinson s disease. For example selecting a subject can include where appropriate excluding subjects with neurodegenerative disease attributable to oxygen and or glucose deprivation e.g. stroke or Parkinson s disease. For instance selecting a subject can include selecting a subject with a neurodegenerative disease and excluding the selected subject if their neurodegenerative disease is associated with stroke or Parkinson s disease.

Treatment can include administration of an effective amount of one or more of the compositions disclosed herein to target and thereby modulate e.g. inhibit SARM in a neuron including in the neuronal cell body in an axon in a synapse and or in a dendrite. Compositions can be administered by any means that results in inhibition of SARM in a neuron including in the neuronal cell body in an axon in a synapse and or in a dendrite. For example compositions can be administered systemically and or locally. Systemic administration can include use of compositions that target neurons in the CNS and or PNS. Local administration can include administration of compositions to a defined region of the CNS and or PNS including but not limited to an injury site.

Frequency of administration can include once twice or more daily administration for one or more days and or for a time that results in treatment of the subject s disease. In some instances treatment can commence in a subject without neurodegenerative disease or that is at risk for neurodegenerative disease e.g. in a subject with diabetes but without diabetic neuropathy and or in a subject scheduled to be exposed to an agent associated with the onset and or development of neurodegeneration e.g. chemotherapy and or in a subject that has experienced trauma of the CNS and or PNS but that does not present symptoms of neurodegenerative disease e.g. a subject with a head or PNS injury . Alternatively or in addition treatment can commence in a subject with neurodegenerative disease. Treatment can include treating a subject without neurodegenerative disease or at risk for neurodegenerative disease continuing to treat the subject following the onset of neurodegenerative disease and or treating a subject that previously had neurodegenerative disease.

Also included are methods for selecting or identifying compositions compounds or agents that modulate e.g. inhibit SARM expression and or activity for use in the treatment of a neurological disorder that manifests and or includes axonal and or synaptic degradation e.g. Wallerian degeneration e.g. a disorder selected from the exemplary list provided above. Exemplary compositions can include compositions that interact e.g. specifically interact with SARM DNA mRNA and or protein to thereby modulate e.g. inhibit SARM mRNA and or protein expression and or function. Methods include for example screening for candidate compounds using one or more of in silico in vitro and or in culture e.g. using high throughput screening methods and or animal models e.g. to test verify candidate compounds as compounds that inhibit SARM . Compounds can also be evaluated in clinical trial e.g. for use in human subjects. Techniques for performing such screening methods are known in the art and or are described herein.

Compounds screened can include but are not limited to small molecules inhibitory nucleic acids antibodies and inhibitory peptides. For example commercial libraries of compounds e.g. small molecules can be screened using in vitro high throughput screening methods. Such libraries include libraries containing compounds e.g. small molecules previously approved for use in human subjects e.g. approved by the Federal Drug Administration .

In silico methods can be used to model the structure of SARM and to predict model select and or design compounds that interact with SARM or SARM domains e.g. the SARM helical domain the SAM domain and or the TIR domain . In vitro methods can include biomolecular e.g. protein interaction methods e.g. using BIARCORE Fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET in which a SARM binding molecule is used and or cellular or genetic reporter assays e.g. luciferase or fluorescent protein based reporter assays .

Interaction methods can be used to assess the interaction of SARM with a compound or a candidate compound directly or indirectly via competition assay e.g. wherein a compound or candidate compound competes with a SARM binding partner for SARM binding. In such assays a decrease in binding of the SARM binding partner to SARM indicates that the compound or the candidate compound interacts with SARM . Such assays can be done in vitro or in cultured cells.

Genetic reporter assays are generally performed in cultured cells. Such assays can be used to screen for compounds that interfere with SARM expression and or activity directly e.g. by interaction with SARM or indirectly e.g. by interaction with SARM signaling . Useful genetic reporters can include e.g. SARM e.g. genetic reporters that include the SARM promoter or a portion thereof operably linked to a genetic reporter protein and genes that are modulated by SARM e.g. genetic reporters that include a promoter or portion thereof of a gene that is transcriptionally modulated by SARM . Suitable genes can be up regulated or down regulated by SARM. Compounds useful herein can reduce the activity of a gene that is up regulated by SARM in the absence of the compound. Cell culture methods can also include contacting a neuron with a candidate compound injuring the neuron by axotomy and assessing axonal and or synaptic degradation in the neuron post axotomy. Compounds useful herein can reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation in the neuron post axotomy.

Animal models can be used to assess candidate compounds e.g. following their identification in silico and or in vitro. For example candidate compounds can be administered to an animal that has neurodegenerative disease to determine whether the candidate compound decreases one or more of axonal and or synaptic degradation and or reduce one or more symptoms of the disease and or reduces disease in the animal model e.g. relative to disease in the animal in the absence of the candidate compound. Candidate compounds that reduce axonal and or synaptic degradation reduce one or more symptoms of the disease and or reduce disease in the animal model disease are compound that can be used herein. Various animal models are suitable for use in the screening methods disclosed here. For example ALS mice and HD mice DiFiglia et al PNAS 104 43 17204 9 2007 can be used.

The invention is further described in the following examples which do not limit the scope of the invention described in the claims.

The following strains were used in this study OR22a Gal4 dMP2 Gal4 Miguel Aliaga and Thor Development 131 6093 2004 pUAST mCD8 GFP pUAST nSynaptobrevin GFP 201y Gal4 FRT2A FRT82B GMR hid Ubi GFP nls FRT2A tub Gal80 ey flp usp Tp 3 1 KA21 Ect4 Gal4 Genetic Resource Center and the 3 L Deficiency Kit all from Bloomington Stock Center unless noted . Mutants listed in Table 1 are all from Bloomington Stock Center or generous gifts from E. Baehrecke E. Arama R. Tanguay M. Guo N. Tapon and K. McCall. Lethal mutants were recombined onto a chromosome harboring a flippase recognition target FRT sequence and screened using MARCM clonal analysis with ey flp. To establish mutant stocks for screening we used the mutagen ethyl methane sulfonate EMS and established 2000 individual third chromosome Fmutant stocks containing FRT sites on both chromosomal arms 2A and 82B . Antennal injury was induced using a modification of a previously described protocol MacDonald et al. Neuron 50 869 Jun. 15 2006 . Adult flies were aged for 7 days at 25 C. after ablating the right third antennal segment only. Both antennae were ablated for synaptic preservation studies as ORNs from each antenna synapse on both glomeruli. Injured flies were aged at 25 C. for the indicated time 7 30 or 50 days before dissecting and fixing the brain. Axonal integrity was scored as previously described MacDonald et al. Neuron 50 869 Jun. 15 2006 Avery et al. J Cell Biol 184 501 Feb. 23 2009 .

Eye imaginal discs from third instar larvae were dissected and TUNEL stained using In Situ Cell Death Detection Kit Roche as previous described Klein Methods Mol Biol 420 253 2008 . Embryos expressing dMP2 Gal4 UAS mCD8 GFP were fixed as previously described Miguel Aliaga and Thor Development 131 6093 December 2004 . 1instar larvae expressing dMP2 Gal4 UAS mCD8 GFP were imaged live. Whole brains from either pre pupae or pupae 18 hrs APF were dissected and staining with anti FasII as described Lee and Luo Trends Neurosci 24 251 2001 . Embryos from yw or mutant stocks were fixed and staining with anti FasII as preciously described. Fas II antibody was used at a 1 10 dilution Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank . For dsarm rescue experiments 22aGal4 was recombined with UAS dsarm using standard fly techniques and MARCM clones were generated using a line containing ey flp UAS mCD8 GFP. Tdc Gal4 neurons were imaged using a live fillet preparation Ataman et al. Neuron 57 705 Mar. 13 2008 . Secondary antibodies were obtained from Jackson Immunolabs and used at 1 200.

Samples were mounted in Vectashield antifade reagent and viewed on a III Everest Spinning disk confocal microscope. The entire antennal lobe was imaged in 0.27 m steps for each sample for scoring axonal integrity. TUNEL stained eye imaginal discs were imaged on a Zeiss LSM5 Pascal confocal microscope.

Standard methods were used for collection fixation and immunohistochemistry of yw animals. dSARM cDNA corresponding to exon 5 in dsarm transcript RD was PCR cloned into pCRII Invitrogen . Digoxigenin labeled RNA probes were generated according to the manufacturer s instructions Roche . RNA in situ hybridization to embryos was carried out as described previously Broadus et al. Nature 391 792 Feb. 19 1998 . Third instar larvae were decapitated in 1 PBS and fixed in 9 formaldehyde in PBS for 45 mins. Larval heads were hybridized in hybridization buffer 50 formamide 5 SSC 5 Denhardts 250 ug ml yeast tRNA 500 ug ml herring sperm DNA 50 ug ml heparin 2.5 mM EDTA and 0.1 Tween 20 . Adult heads were decapitated on COand transferred to plastic embedding molds containing Tissue Tek OCT. The samples were frozen on dry ice and 15 m frozen sections were processed for in situ hybridization as previously described Vosshall et al. Cell 96 725 Mar. 5 1999 with digoxigenin labeled riboprobes and detected with TSA Plus Fluorescein System Perkin Elmer . Anti digoxigenin POD was diluted 1 500 Roche .

Antibodies used in this study were mouse monoclonal anti Tau 1 clone PC1C6 MAB3420 and rabbit anti neurofilament M AB 1987 from Millipore rabbit monoclonal anti tubulin class III MRB 435P and rabbit anti internexin PRB 572C from Covance mouse monoclonal anti actin clone AC 15 A5441 from Sigma rat monoclonal anti CD11b clone M1 70.15 MCA74EL from AbD Serotec rabbit anti synaptophysin 08 0130 from Invitrogen. Monoclonal neutralizing antibody against mouse NGF was previously described Nikolaev et al. Nature 457 981 Feb. 19 2009 . Secondary detecting antibodies conjugated with indicated Alexa dyes and Alexa 594 conjugated bungarotoxin were from Invitrogen. Goat serum donkey serum and horseradish peroxidase conjugated donkey anti rabbit IgG and donkey anti mouse IgG were from Jackson ImmunoResearch. All other chemicals were from Sigma unless otherwise specified.

All surgical and experimental procedures in mice were performed in compliance with the protocols approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of The Rockefeller University Cornell Weill Medical College and The University of Massachusetts Medical School. Mice were anesthetized with isoflurane and the skin on their right hind limb was shaved and prepared with iodine and alcohol. An incision was made between the knee and the hip joint and the gluteal muscles were separated carefully with a pair of forceps. The sciatic nerve was transected as close to the thigh with a pair of sterile surgical scissors and 1 to 2 mm of nerve segment was removed to prevent the regeneration of axons into the distal stump. The gluteal muscles were then brought back into their original anatomical position and the overlying skin was re approximated by surgical staples or sutures.

For light microscopy the animals were euthanized at indicated time points post surgery and nerve segments 3 6 mm distal to the lesion fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde and 2.5 glutaraldehyde in 0.1 M PBS pH 7.4 72 h at 4 C. . After an extensive wash in 0.1 M PBS 2 h of postfixation 1 osmium tetroxide and dehydration in graded ethanol and propylene oxide nerve segments were embedded in Durcupan resin Fluka Chemie . After polymerization for 48 h at 60 C. transverse semithin sections 0.5 m were cut on a Leica ultramicrotome stained with toluidine blue and photomicrographed. To quantify survival 500 randomly chosen axons were counted. Survival criteria were normal myelin sheaths uniform axoplasm and intact unswollen mitochondria. A two tailed one sample t test was performed using GraphPad Prism 5.

For the biochemical analysis of sciatic nerves the animals were euthanized at indicated time points post surgery. A 10 mm segment of the nerve distal to the transection site was harvested and immediately homogenized in 200 ul Urea SDS buffer 50 mM Tris Cl pH 6.8 8.0 M urea 10 w v SDS 10 mM sodium EDTA and 50 mM DTT . The nerve samples from two Sarm1 or Sarm1 mice were processed for each time point. After heating at 95 C. for 10 min 10 ul aliquot of each nerve homogenate was subjected to 4 15 gradient Tris glycine SDS PAGE Bio Rad and transferred to Immobilon P PVDF membranes Millipore for immunoblot analysis. The membranes were immunoblotted with the indicated primary antibodies and then the corresponding secondary antibodies in PBS Tween 20. The bound antibodies were visualized by SuperSignal chemiluminescence reagents Pierce . All membranes were exposed to Phoenix Blue X ray film for 5 to 10 sec.

For immunohistochemistry the mice were lethally anesthetized at the indicated time points post surgery and transcardially perfused with 4 paraformaldehyde PBS. The sciatic nerves distal to the transection site was dissected and post fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde PBS at 4 C. overnight. After washing three times in PBS the nerves were cryoprotected in 30 w v sucrose PBS at 4 C. overnight and then frozen in the 2 1 mixture of 30 sucrose PBS OCT Tissue Tek for 12 um longitudinal cryosections. The nerves were permeabilized in 0.5 Triton X 100 PBS for 1 hour and blocked in 0.5 Triton X 100 PBS containing 2 bovine serum albumin and 4 goat serum at 4 C. overnight. Immunohistochemistry was carried out with either rabbit anti neurofilament M 1 500 or rat anti CD11b 1 500 in the same blocking buffer at 4 C. overnight followed by washing for 1 hour in 0.5 Triton X 100 PBS three times. The sections were then labeled with the corresponding Alexa 488 or Alexa 568 conjugated secondary antibodies for 2 hours washed in PBS and mounted in fluoromount G. Images were taken at 2 mm distal to the transection sites and 3 nonadjacent sections of each nerve sample were examined. Four neurofilament M axons or three CD11b macrophages monocytes mice of Sarm1 or Sarm1 were included per time point.

To examine denervation at neuromuscular junctions the tibialis anterior muscles were dissected from perfused animals and post fixed in 1 paraformaldehyde PBS at 4 C. overnight. After washing three times in PBS muscles were cryoprotected in 30 sucrose PBS at 4 C. overnight and embedded in OCT for 80 um longitudinal cryosections. The tissues were permeabilized in 0.5 Triton X 100 PBS for 1 hour and blocked in 1 Triton X 100 PBS containing 4 bovine serum albumin and 4 donkey serum at 4 C. overnight. To label axons and neuromuscular junctions muscles were stained with rabbit anti neurofilament M 1 500 and rabbit anti synaptophysin 1 5 in the same blocking buffer at 4 C. for at least 24 hours. After washing for 1 hour in 0.5 Triton X 100 PBS three times the muscles were incubated with Alexa 647 conjugated donkey anti rabbit antibody 1 500 and Alexa 594 conjugated a bungarotoxin 1 1000 overnight. After washing in PBS for 4 hours sections were mounted in fluoromount G and imaged by LSM 510 laser scanning confocal microscope. To analyze presynaptic structures maximum intensity projections of z stack images from 6 to 8 nonadjacent sections of each muscle sample were generated by AutoQuant X. Partial or full denervation was determined as the postsynaptic AChR sites not apposed by the presynaptic marker colored in green for better visualization . About 100 neuromuscular junctions were examined for each muscle and four Sarm1 or Sarm1 mice were included per time point.

The olfactory system is a model system for Wallerian degeneration. To determine whether Wallerian degeneration might be related to previously described cell destruction programs a comprehensive screen of existing mutants and dominant negative constructs was performed for genes affecting apoptosis autophagy or other defined cell degradative pathways but these failed to suppress Wallerian degeneration in vivo at any level Table 1 .

To identify new genes required to promote axon auto destruction an Fforward genetic screen was performed in for mutants that exhibited survival of axons after axotomy . Because genes required for Wallerian degeneration may cause lethality when mutated the screen was designed to allow for the isolation of essential and non essential genes by characterization of both viable and lethal mutants though MARCM clonal analysis Lee and Luo Trends Neurosci 24 251 254 2001 .

A third chromosome line harboring flipase recombination target FRT sites FRT2A FRT82B at the base of both arms of chromosome 3 was used. Methods started with a third chromosome isogenized strain where a subset of olfactory receptor neuron ORN axons were labeled with membrane tethered GFP OR22a Gal4 UAS mCD8 GFP mutagenized with EMS and established 2500 individual mutant Fstocks. If mutant lines were homozygous viable for the third chromosome unilateral axotomy was induced in homozygotes by ablating the right antenna and assayed. Axonal integrity was assessed one week later via unilateral ablation of antennae. If mutant lines contained lethal mutations on chromosome 3 MARCM clones Lee and Luo Trends Neurosci 24 251 254 2001 were generated in ORNs individually for 3R and 3L. Axotomies were performed and analyzed as described for the viable lines.

Axotomy in wild type flies resulted in severed axons being completely cleared from the right antennal lobe within 1 week after injury wild type . In contrast certain mutants showed normal axon function post axotomy. Specifically four lethal lines l 3 896 l 3 4621 l 3 4705 and l 3 7152 were identified in which severed axons generated by MARCM remained intact 1 week after axotomy . While the number of uninjured axons was slightly reduced in each mutant 100 of GFP labeled axons exhibited long term preservation after injury Table 2 below . Remarkably mutant axons remained fully intact 30 days after injury and a significant but reduced number remained morphologically intact even 50 days after injury . l 3 896 l 3 4621 and l 3 4705 therefore provide axonal preservation that rivals that of Wlds in and which lasts essentially for the lifespan of the fly. As described in more detail below intact axons were also observed 30 days and 50 days post axotomy . Neuroprotection in these mutants extended to synapses synaptobrevin punctae localized to synaptic terminals even 30 days after axotomy see below and . In each of these mutants OR22a axonal morphology pathfinding and innervation of antennal lobe glomeruli appeared normal suggesting that none of these mutants grossly affected ORN development. All four mutants were homozygous lethal and failed to complement one another for lethality. Thus each appears to represent an independently isolated lethal mutation in the same gene.

Previous work 9 10 12 and the present data argue that Wallerian degeneration is molecularly distinct from apoptosis and developmental neurite pruning. To determine whether l 3 896 is broadly required for neuron pruning or apoptotic cell death MARCM clones were examined in mushroom body neurons as these neurons undergo both dendritic and axonal pruning during metamorphosis 15 . In both control and l 3 896 animals mushroom body neuron axons and dendrites were pruned normally . During normal early embryogenesis dMP2 neurons are present in each segment but by late embryogenesis all but the posterior 3 pairs undergo developmentally programmed apoptosis 16 . dMP2 neurons were generated normally in l 3 4621 animals and the appropriate subset of neurons underwent apoptosis . Finally the pro apoptotic gene hid was expressed in the visual system 17 to induce widespread apoptotic death in cells of the developing eye disc. The l 3 896 mutant clones failed to suppress activation of cell death .

To determine the penetrance of axonal protection MARCM clones were generated in the indicated mutant strains. Axons labeled with OR22aGal4 UAS mCD8 GFP were aged for 7 days after eclosion followed by unilateral antennal ablation. Axonal integrity was scored 7 days after injury in both uninjured and injured glomeruli. n 10 lobes for all. Data is presented in Table 2.

As shown in Table 2 on average control chromosomes led to the production of 11.08 1.52 GFP labeled axons in MARCM clones. In contrast in l 3 896 l 3 4621 and l 3 4705 backgrounds 4.71 1.76 7.44 0.66 and 4.94 0.85 GFP labeled axons in MARCM clones were observed. The observed consistently reduced number of axons labeled in mutant background indicates that loss of the affected gene s function results in a growth disadvantage for ORNs compared to wild type cells see the column entitled uninjured . However the number of GFP labeled axons that exhibit long term survival in each of the mutants is not significantly different from the number labeled prior to injury indicating in each of these mutant backgrounds essentially 100 of axons were protected 1 week after injury.

In Wldexpression is sufficient to protect severed axons for 30 40 days after axotomy but beyond that time point axons degenerate Avery et al. J. Cell. Biol. 184 501 513 2009 . Axonal integrity was assessed in the mutants described above at 30 and 50 days post axotomy.

As shown in in l 3 896 l 3 4705 l 3 4621 and l 3 7152 mutant clones axons remained fully intact 30 and 50 days post axotomy. Since Wld mediated axon protection disappears by day 50 these mutants exhibit axon protective phenotypes that significantly exceed Wld. Moreover the median lifespan of is 30 days thus severed axons are protected in these mutants for essentially the entire lifespan of the fly.

Two approaches were employed to identify the gene affected in l 3 896 l 2 4621 l 3 4705 and l 3 7152 mutants. First lethality was mapped using small chromosomal deficiencies. By assaying for non complementation it was possible to map the lethality to a single gene Ect4 hereafter referred to as dSARM for SARM using an array of partially overlapping deficiencies in the 66B region of chromosome 3 .

In addition next generation sequencing technology was used to re sequence the entire genome of each mutant along with the unmutagenized control line to an average read depth of 70 in order to identify novel mutations in open reading frames in genes on 3L and more specifically any gene mutated in all four mutant backgrounds Table 3 .

This approach identified a single gene affected in all of the mutants which resided in cytogenetic region 66B ect4 which is referred to herein as dsarm sterile alpha and Armadillo motif . The dsarm gene encodes a protein with an Armadillo HEAT ARM domain two sterile alpha motifs SAM and a Toll Interleukin 1 Receptor homology TIR domain. Each identified dsarm allele contained a unique premature stop codon in dsarm open reading frame .

As illustrated in the l 3 896 l 2 4621 and l 3 4705 mutants each contained a unique premature stop codon in dSARM. The predicted protein products from l 3 896 and l 2 4705 would be truncated prior to the ARM SAM and TIR domains that from l 2 4621 would be truncated early in the first SAM domain. l 3 7152 is a point mutation in the first SAM domain 1986S . These observations confirm that the MARCM mutations are recessive and that three of the four alleles result in premature stop codons. Accordingly the mutations are loss of function mutations.

To test this interpretation dsarm was cloned for expression studies. The first 630 4828 nucleotides of the partial dsarm cDNA GH07037 DGRC was cloned into the pCashsp40 LacZ vector with BglII XhoI. The remaining sequence was obtained by PCR amplifying a fragment from cDNA IP03452 DGRC using 5 ECT4 D NotI atatatatgcggccgcaaaacATGGGCAATCGTTTGAGCGGC SEQ ID NO 7 and PM001 CGTTAGAACGCGGCTACAAT SEQ ID NO 8 then cut with NotI BglII and ligated into the pCashsp40 LacZ vector. The resulting full length dsarm was then PCR amplified off the pCashsp40 LacZ vector using the above 5 ECT4 D NotI and 3 Ect4 D aa1610 1637 agatactcgagTTACCAAAATATCATGCGCCCGGCATTGGGGGAGGTGGCCTTGGA CAGAATGATGCCCGAAAGTTCCTCGTCCTCCATTTCGTTGTTTTTTATCAGCG AGCGGACCTTCTTCATCG SEQ ID NO 9 cut with NotI XhoI and ligated into pUAST vector generating pUASt dsarm . pUASt dSarm GFP was generated by cloning into the NotI SpeI sites of pUASt CT EGFP with PCR amplification off the pUASt dsarm construct using 5 ECT4 D NotI and 3 ECT4 D SpeI gatcactagtCCAAAATATCATGCGCCCGGCATTGG SEQ ID NO 10 .

The results were consistent with the above interpretation expression of full length dsarm cDNA using the postmitotic OR22a Gal4 driver in l 3 896 mutant clones was sufficient to fully revert the suppression of axonal degeneration observed in dsarm mutants . In addition both the lethality and suppression of Wallerian degeneration phenotypes were rescued in l 3 896 l 3 4621 and l 3 896 Df 3L BSC795 trans heterozygous animals with a BAC clone containing the dsarm gene. Together these data indicate that dsarm is necessary in post mitotic neurons for axonal destruction after axotomy and loss of dsarm function is sufficient to provide long term preservation of severed axons.

Based on RNA in situ hyridizations to embryos larval brains and adult brains RT PCR from dissected neural tissues and analysis of a dsarm Gal4 driver line dsarm appears to be widely expressed in the nervous system. This observation suggests that dSarm is broadly required to promote Wallerian degeneration in the nervous system.

A number of cell degradative programs are engaged to dispose of neurons or parts of neurons including apoptotic cell death pathways and axonal pruning or dendritic pruning programs Raff et al. Science 262 695 700 1993 Luo and O Leary Annu Rev. Neurosci. 28 127 156 2005 . Wlddoes not block cell death or developmental axon pruning and reciprocally molecules that block apoptotic cell death do not block axon degeneration after injury Simonin et al Eur. J. Neurosci. 25 2269 2274 2007 Hoopfer et al. Neuron 50 883 895 2006 Finn et al. J. Neurosci. 20 1333 1341 2000 .

To determine whether dSARM mutations were capable of affecting other types of neuronal degradation besides Wallerian degeneration MARCM clones were generated in mushroom body neurons using control and dSARMchromosomes.

MARCM clones were generated with wild type or dSARMchromosomes during larval stages using the 201Y Gal4 driver which labels mushroom body neurons. Dendretic and axonal pruning in the dorsal and medial bindles were scored at 0 and 18 hours after puparium formation APF . As shown in in both control wild type and dSARManimals neuron axons and dendrites were fully pruned by 18 hours after pupariaum formation. These data indicate that loss of dSARM function does not affect developmental neurite pruning

The potential role of dSARM in naturally occurring and induced cell death during development was also examined. First the dMP2 Gal4 driver was crossed into control and dSARMbackgrounds. This marker allows for the unique identification of the dMP2 neurons which are initially generated in each embryonic segment but later undergo cell death in all segments but A7 9 before the 1st instar larval stage Miguel Aliaga and Thor Development 131 6093 6105 2004 . As shown in dMP2 neurons were generated normally in both control and dSARManimals and the appropriate subsets underwent cell death prior to larval hatching. Further the normal complement of dMP2 neurons were identified in stage 16 embryos and all underwent programmed cell death expect the 3 most posterior abdominal pairs by 1instar larval stages.

To evaluate the role of dSARM in cell death cell death was induced in the developing visual system using the GMR hid approach Grether et al. Genes Dev. 9 1694 1708 2005 and made clones of both control and dSARMchromosomes and assayed for any suppression of cell death e.g. rescue of eye ablation .

As shown in it was found that dSARM mutations had no effect on the activation of cell death in the visual system by hid expression.

These data reveal that dSARM has no effect on the activation or execution of neurite pruning or apoptotic cell death.

In addition our studies revealed axonal degeneration is not impacted by the loss of known autophagic or apoptotic genes including the autophagy genes PTEN TOR Atg 1 2 6 7 and 18 and the apoptosis genes Cyt C Diap1 Diap2 Debcl Buffy Dronc Roc2 Gft Cul3 Dark and p35.

Wallerian degeneration was next assayed in null mutants for the mouse ortholog of dsarm Sarm1. Five day cultures of superior cervical ganglia SCG were cultured from wild type Sarm1 and Wldmice severed axons and axonal integrity scored over the next week. Similar experiments were conducted in dorsal root ganglion DRG and cortical neuron cultures.

SCG explants were dissected from 0 2 day old pups and cultured as previously described Gilley and Coleman PLoS Biol 8 e1000300 2010 . Axons were allowed to extend for 5 days before separation from the cell body mass using a scalpel. The degeneration of the isolated axons was followed at different time points for 72 h after cut. Bright field images were acquired on a microscope IX8I Olympus coupled to a digital camera U TV 0.5XC Olympus using AnalySIS software Soft Imaging Systems GmbH Germany . Axonal protection was quantified as described Gilley and Coleman PLoS Biol 8 e1000300 2010 . Typically an image of intact axons has a protection index PI value around 1. A PI around 0 occurs when axons detach from the dish. A two way repeated measures analysis of variance ANOVA was used to show the difference in axonal protection between wild type and Sarm . For dissociated SCG cultures cells were microinjected as previously described Gilley and Coleman PLoS Biol 8 e1000300 January 2010 with 50 ng l of mito tagRFP construct created by PCR amplification of the mitochondrial targeting sequence aa 1 24 of cytochrome c oxidase subunit VIIIb GenBank AK003116.1 and insertion into the MCS of the pTagRFP N vector Evrogen . 24 hours after microinjection cultures were immunostained using 0.3 g ml mouse monoclonal anti SARMI antibody Chen et al. J Cell Biol 193 769 2011 and Alexa 488 secondary antibody. Cultures were visualized on an Olympus FV1000 point scanning confocal microscope using a 60 1.35NA apochromat objective.

For cortical neuron cultures Campenot dividers Tyler Research were set up in poly D lysine laminin coated 2 well chamber culture slides. On DIV 0 Day In Vitro 0 neocortices were dissected from six E16.5 Sarm1 or Sarm1 embryos pooled and dissociated in Hank s Balanced Salt Solution without Ca and Mg Invitrogen containing 0.05 w v trypsin EDTA at 37 C. for 10 min. After adding a final concentration of 10 v v heat inactivated fetal bovine serum HI FBS the tissues were spun down at 500 g for 3 min. The tissues were then suspended and triturated in Neurobasal B 27 medium Neurobasal medium supplemented with 2 v v B 27 2 mM glutamine 100 U ml penicillin and 100 ug ml streptomycin containing 10 HI FBS. The cells were plated in the cell body compartment of Campenot dividers at a density of 2.5 10per well. To facilitate the axotomy later Campenot dividers were removed after 6 hours when the cells already attached to the slides. From DIV 3 half of the culture medium was replaced every other day by fresh Neurobasal B 27 medium containing 5 uM 5 fluorouridine and 5 uM uridine to suppress the proliferation of non neuronal cells. On DIV 10 the cultures were subjected to axotomy.

For the dorsal root ganglion DRG cultures DRGs were dissected from four E13.5 Sarm1 or Sarm1 embryos on DIV 0. The explants from each embryo were individually plated in poly D lysine laminin coated 4 well chamber culture slides in F 12 N 3 medium Ham s F 12 medium supplemented with 40 mM glucose 4 v v N 3 supplement and 50 ng ml mouse NGF . On DIV 1 the cultures were changed to fresh F 12 N 3 medium containing 1 M cytosine D arabinofuranoside to suppress the proliferation of non neuronal cells. On DIV 3 the explants were subjected to either the axotomy or the NGF deprivation with a final concentration of 50 ug ml anti NGF antibody.

To visualize the axons the cultures were fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde w v phosphate buffered saline PBS at room temperature for 30 min followed by the permeabilization with 0.1 v v Triton X 100 PBS for 30 min. The axons were then immunostained with the indicated primary antibodies in 0.1 Triton X 100 PBS containing 2 w v bovine serum albumin and 2 v v goat serum at 4 C. overnight followed by the corresponding Alexa 488 or Alexa 568 conjugated secondary antibodies. To quantify axon degeneration the images of distal axons were taken from 2 random fields per well and 40 to 80 singly distinguishable axons in each field were examined with any sign of fragmentation scored as degeneration. For each time point 4 wells of Sarm1 or Sarm1 cortical neuron cultures or the DRG explants from 4 embryos of Sarm1 or Sarm1 were included.

Sarm1 SCG explants exhibited robust protection from degeneration up to 72 hours after axotomy similar to what is observed with WldSCG neurons while wild type axons degenerated within 8 hours B . This robust protection was also seen in cultured Sarm1 cortical neuron axons D and dorsal root ganglia DRG F . Notably Sarm1 DRG explants were not protected from nerve growth factor NGF deprivation H a mouse model for developmental axon pruning 4 15 18 19 suggesting that in mammals Sarm1 protection is specific to injury induced axon degeneration. Thus Sarm1 loss of function robustly suppresses Wallerian degeneration in multiple types of mammalian axons in vitro. In addition based on use of culture conditions that minimize the presence of satellite cells among the axons the present data argue that Sarm1 is required cell autonomously for programmed axonal death.

To test whether Sarm1 is required in vivo for Wallerian degeneration sciatic nerve lesions of the right hind limb were performed in Sarm1 mice and their heterozygous littermate controls. Impressively while Sarm1 controls exhibited a dramatic breakdown of the axon and myelin sheath within 3 days of injury 61.2 of lesioned Sarm1 axons were protected from degeneration at least 14 days after injury p 0.002 E . Analysis of sciatic nerve ultrastructure revealed a remarkable structural preservation at 14 days after axotomy of the Schwann cell and myelin sheath axonal neurofilaments and axonal mitochondria . Western blots of sciatic nerve were performed and probed with antibodies to neurofilament M NF M Internexin and tubulin class III TUJI . While a dramatic breakdown of these proteins was observed in wild type nerves they remained largely intact in Sarm1 axons . In addition preservation of the NF M signal was observed by immunofluorescent staining of the nerve in Sarm1 mutants .

Neuromuscular junctions were examined in tibialis anterior muscles after sciatic nerve transection. Synaptic integrity was scored by co localization of presynaptic marker NF M synaptophysin with the post synaptic acetylcholine receptor AChR . In wild type animals motor endplate denervation was complete by 2 days after axotomy. However in Sarm1 animals most synaptic terminals were partially innervated even at 6 days after injury F . Macrophage monocyte infiltration of lesioned nerves was suppressed in Sarm1 knockout animals . Taken together these results indicate that Sarm1 mutations provide a dramatic preservation of sciatic nerves in vivo from initial axonal cytoskeletal breakdown to recruitment of macrophages for myelin clearance.

Finally in vivo localization of dSarm and Sarm1 was assayed. To determine the subcellular localization of dSarm a GFP tagged version of dSarm UAS dSarm GFP was generated and expressed via tdc Gal4 in larval motorneurons. dSarm GFP localization was assayed in third instar larvae. Axons and cell bodies were identified by co expression of UAS mCD mCherry. Expression of dSarm GFP in larval neurons resulted in punctate localization in neuronal cell bodies and broad localization to neurites. Similarly immunostaining with anti Sarm1 antibodies of in vitro cultured mammalian neurons showed a broad punctate pattern in neurites and endogenous Sarm1 did not show preferential localization with a mitochondrial marker.

It is to be understood that while the invention has been described in conjunction with the detailed description thereof the foregoing description is intended to illustrate and not limit the scope of the invention which is defined by the scope of the appended claims. Other aspects advantages and modifications are within the scope of the following claims.

