---

title: Energy harvesting utilizing stress induced phase transformation in ferro-electric piezocrystals
abstract: A transducer for generating electrical energy from an expected force includes a single crystal ferroelectric material having a phase transition stress level. Mechanical stress is provided to this crystal at a level approaching the phase transition stress level, such that the expected external force will cause the phase transition. At least two electrodes are joined to the single crystal for receiving electrical energy created by the phase transition. The electrodes can be joined to conditioning and storage circuitry. In further embodiments, the phase transition is induced by an expected temperature change.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09048762&OS=09048762&RS=09048762
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09048762
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 756 542 filed on Jan. 25 2013 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 053 577 filed on Mar. 22 2011 and entitled Crystalline Relaxor Ferroelectric Phase Transition Transducer. 

The present invention is directed generally towards energy harvesting utilizing ferroelectric piezocrystal material transducers and in particular to a ferroelectric generator that utilizes a crystalline phase transformation to achieve higher energy density.

While piezoelectric materials have been successfully utilized in sensors and actuators their use as practical power sources for generating a useful amount of electricity in portable generators has been limited by the small amounts of power available and the efficiency of generating this power. Most practically applied piezoelectric energy harvesting is performed by piezoelectric composite materials. These materials incorporate a plurality of piezoelectric crystals in a matrix material. Efficiency is limited by the matrix material coupling inefficiencies and crystal orientations.

Single crystal ferroelectric materials are also known in the art for energy harvesting. While more efficient than composite materials these materials operate in the linear region of the ferroelectric response curve because the linear region is the operating region without pre stress or bias electric field.

The current most promising class of materials for energy harvesting are relaxor ferroelectric single crystals. These materials are single crystals of ferroelectric materials for example lead zinc niobate lead titanate known hereinafter as PZN PT . These materials have been shown to deliver a high voltage at greater efficiency when the crystal is subjected to stress. In some special compositions for example certain compositions of ternary lead indium niobate lead magnesium niobate lead titanate PIN PMN PT the material will undergo a phase transformation accompanied by a very sharp hysteretic strain and a dramatic change in stiffness when subjected to external stress. This phase transformation can be invoked repeatedly at variable rates to induce large strains in the single crystal element. Known compositions exhibiting this type of phase change behavior include 1 x PZN xPT where 0.04

It is known to combine single crystal piezoelectric materials with mechanical stress inducing means. This is typically performed in order to avoid putting the piezoelectric material in tensile stress because of the fragility of ceramic or single crystal materials in tension. In a prior art mechanically induced stress application the stress is calculated to be that which is optimal for insuring piezoelectric material life in the operating conditions of the application. These operating conditions can include varying environmental temperatures and pressures.

It is also known to include an electrically controllable stress element in combination with a piezoelectric single crystal material. This element can be either a piezoelectric voltage driven element or a magnetostrictive effect MS element. These hybrid magnetostrictive piezoelectric transducer systems are known to work effectively in a linear region.

In both mechanical and electrical stress generation means applications avoid utilizing stress near the phase transition stress level of relaxor ferroelectric single crystals.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an efficient energy harvesting apparatus for a known force change.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide an efficient energy harvesting apparatus for a known temperature change.

Accordingly there is provided a transducer for generating electrical energy from an expected external force that includes a single crystal ferroelectric material having a phase transition stress level. Mechanical stress is provided to this crystal at a level approaching the phase transition stress level such that the expected external force will cause the phase transition. At least two electrodes are joined to the single crystal for receiving electrical energy created by the phase transition. The electrodes can be joined to conditioning and storage circuitry. In further embodiments the phase transition is induced by an expected external temperature change.

This invention utilizes single crystal ferroelectric materials known more specifically as relaxor ferroelectric single crystal compositions which operate near the morphotropic phase boundary MPB . In these types of crystals the morphotropic phase boundary is the temperature pressure region in which the crystalline structure changes from a rhombohedral structure to a tetragonal structure through intermediate states.

Binary materials showing this transition include Pb B Nb O PbTiOwhere B is one metal selected from the set of metals including Mg Mn Zn and Sc. Ternary single crystal compositions such as xPb InNb O 1 x y Pb MgNb O yPbTiO PIN PMN PT also show these properties. Useful crystals in this group have been found where x is in the range of about 0.24 0.33 and y is in the range of about 0.28 0.33. Other ranges and similar compositions of binary and ternary crystals may have beneficial properties.

Ferroelectric relaxor single crystals can be used to provide an electrical response when subjected to stress in the 32 mode or in the 33 mode. shows crystal orientation for stress in the 32 mode and shows crystal orientation for stress in the 33 mode. In stress and strain occur in the direction indicated by arrow . The Xaxis is in the direction given by the vector 0 1 . The Xaxis is in the direction given by the vector 100 and the Xaxis is in the direction given by the vector 011 . The arrows indicated by Pand vector directions 11 and 111 show possible polarization vectors for these materials driven in the 32 mode. Strain in direction is responsive to an electric field in the direction indicated by arrow .

Device can further include a controller and a device giving an adjustable pre stress. Pre stress device is in series with crystal and other pre stress means. Device can be a mechanical piezoelectric magnetostrictive or other device known in the art that is capable of contracting or expanding in response to a control signal. Insulating material can be positioned between pre stress device and crystal . Controller can also be joined to a pressure sensor and a temperature sensor . Pressure sensor and temperature sensor are positioned to detect environmental conditions affecting crystal . Controller can provide a signal to adjustable pre environmental conditions. This allows controller to create a pre stress in crystal that is calculated based on the environmental conditions to it near the phase transition point indicated at or of . The calculated pre stress can be based on experimental data or theoretical information related to the single crystal or the crystalline composition.

In 32 mode operation an increase or decrease in the tension in bolt causes a phase change in crystal and generates an electric field between electrodes . Because piezoelectric materials are reciprocal a change in stress applied along axis A also results in an electrical field being generated between electrodes . This results in positive or negative strain along axis A of bolt .

For high strain phase change operation flexing shell applies a static stress to the single crystals by way of the shell s elasticity. This compressive stress brings the single crystals close to the phase transition point. To generate energy tension in the shell along axis B provides a compressive stress along axis A that causes the single crystals to change state. Releasing this stress causes crystals to return to the original state. The required dynamic stress is related to how close the static stress can come to the phase transition point and remain stable. The crystals can be brought closer to phase transition point by pre stress component . Pre stress component can adjust static stress as needed for example to compensate for changes in pressure and temperature that would affect the shell s compressive load.

Current supplied to solenoid coil increases the critical dimension of magnetostrictive material and causes additional stress in crystal . This stress can be controlled to optimize phase change in crystal in view of varying environmental conditions. Crystal can then operate in the passive mode in which compression of crystal causes a phase change and results in the creation of an electric field.

Another embodiment given in features a device wherein an increase in temperature increases stress in a crystal while the increased temperature is also promoting a phase transition. Electrical contacts not shown are positioned on crystal in either a 32 or 33 mode of operation. Crystal is mounted between stress members in a housing . Stress members have a thermal coefficient of expansion that is chosen to assist with providing stress to crystal when subjected to a temperature change. As mounted crystal is subjected to a base level of pre stress. Housing has lower thermal coefficient of expansion than stress members allowing housing to maintain pre stress. An increase in environmental temperature results in an expansion of stress members increasing the compression of crystal . Increase in environmental temperature also brings the crystal closer to its phase transition temperature. These temperatures can also be controlled by providing a heat source at stress members and crystal . Electrical energy released by crystal on phase transition is received at the contacts. Thus there could be a hybrid device for harvesting energy from both temperature changes and stress changes or for magnifying stress and temperature changes.

It will be understood that additional variations and alternatives in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made as understood by those skilled in the art within the principles and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

