---

title: Interactive graphical document insight element
abstract: In one embodiment, metadata associated with a document is received. At least one keyword is extracted from the received metadata, wherein the at least one keyword include at least one of actionable information and non-actionable information. Further, an interactive graphical document insight element is generated including a representation of the non-actionable information and one or more interactive icons representing the actionable information. The generated interactive graphical document insight element is rendered on a computer generated user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09607012&OS=09607012&RS=09607012
owner: BUSINESS OBJECTS SOFTWARE LIMITED
number: 09607012
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20130306
---
Embodiments generally relate to graphical user interfaces and more particularly to methods and systems to provide an interactive graphical document insight element.

With the rapid increase in the number of document transactions in a business application retrieving a relevant document is always a challenge. Conventional search applications provide a citation list of documents in response to a search query through icons or thumbnail images. For example a user can access the documents based on their citation and select one of the citations in order to view the content of the document. Also to view the information within the document or to determine whether the document is relevant or not the user has to access the content of the document by opening the document. This process becomes time consuming when there is a large number of documents to be analyzed.

Embodiments of techniques to generate an interactive graphical document insight element are described herein. According to various embodiments the interactive graphical document insight element represents a document. The document may be web content that is published or distributed in a digital form such as or a combination of a text an audio a video an image a software application and the like using Internet or non web content that is locally stored in a system such as a Microsoft word document Microsoft Excel document Adobe PDF document and the like. In one embodiment the interactive graphical document insight element is generated by parsing metadata associated with the document. The interactive graphical document insight element provides a graphical representation of the document by rendering information about the document in a consumable form to a user. The interactive graphical document insight element provides insightful display of the document so that the user can view and or access the information of the document without accessing the actual content of the document e.g. without opening the document .

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one of the one or more embodiments. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In one embodiment metadata associated with the document is received and stored in the memory . Further the interactive graphical document insight element is generated based on the metadata . The metadata is parsed to extract keywords or attributes. For example the metadata may include a uniform resource locator URL associated with the document and the keywords are extracted by parsing the URL. Further the keywords are classified as actionable information or non actionable information. The non actionable information is defined as information which provides some static information about the document e.g. a background image of the document a title of the document a short description of the document and the like whereas the actionable information is defined as information from which a further action can be performed e.g. actionable information an email ID further action to compose an email to the mentioned email ID . The actionable information and non actionable information are described in greater detail in . Further the interactive graphical document insight element is generated using the extracted keywords. The method of generating the interactive graphical document insight element is described further with an example in .

The interactive graphical document insight element provides a user with a view of non actionable information e.g. such as background image and title of the document associated with the document and a plurality of actionable icons representing actionable information. For example the actionable icons provide a link to an agnostic viewable content e.g. links to external documents such as Microsoft Word a Microsoft Excel an Adobe PDF and HTML content a live collaboration link e.g. links to intra corporate discussion forums or social networking sites an email link to a concerned person associated with the document a link to a contact number of the concerned person and the like. Thereby the content of the document can be accessed and used through the interactive graphical document insight element without actually opening the document .

For example the metadata associated with a document sales report includes a reference to an image e.g. http www.myurl.com sales.png contact information a title of the document e.g. sales report 2012 a description of the document a link to a social networking site a link to a whitepaper associated with the document geo location information document size and document format.

At process block the keywords are extracted from the received metadata. The extraction of keywords further includes classifying the keywords into actionable information and non actionable information. For example the non actionable information includes an image representing the document or references to the image to infer more information of the document a title of the document a description of the document and or the like. Further the actionable information includes contact information a link to agnostic viewable document e.g. links to external documents such a Microsoft Word a Microsoft Excel an Adobe PDF and HTML content a link to live collaboration e.g. links to intra corporate discussion forums or social networking sites and or the like.

In the above example the non actionable information includes a bitmap image e.g. sales.png retrieved from http www.myurl.com sales.png and the title of the document sales report 2012 . The actionable information includes the contact information e.g. email id and contact number the link to a social networking site e.g. Facebook a link to a whitepaper associated with the document.

At process block the interactive graphical document insight element is generated based on the actionable information and the non actionable information. In one embodiment the interactive graphical document insight element includes a representation of the non actionable information and one or more interactive icons representing the actionable information. The interactive icons provide an option to perform actions corresponding to the actionable information. At process block the generated interactive graphical document insight element is rendered on a computer generated user interface. For example an exemplary interactive graphical document insight element for the document sales report is shown in . The interactive graphical document insight element includes representation of non actionable information e.g. such as the bitmap image e.g. sales.png and the title of the document sales report 2012 . In one exemplary embodiment the image representing the document is retrieved from an associated repository and rendered on the interactive graphical document insight element . The method of retrieving the image is described in greater detail in .

Further the interactive graphical document insight element includes actionable information e.g. displayed through the interactive icons e.g. such as a link to an email id of a concerned person associated with the document e.g. a link to the contact numbers of the concerned people associated with the document e.g. a link to asocial networking site e.g. a link to a whitepaper associated with the document e.g. . Further when a user selects the interactive icon an email can be composed to the concerned person e.g. abc xyz.com . Further when the interactive icon is selected a phone call can be made to the concerned person. When the interactive icon is selected a page of the social networking site e.g. Facebook associated with the document is opened. Further when the interactive icon is selected the link to the whitepaper associated with the document can be accessed. In other words the user can directly call send email or SMS to the concerned person associated with the document.

At step a request to receive metadata associated with the BI document is sent to the corresponding BI server . In response to the request the BI server sends the metadata associated with the BI document to the user system at step . In one exemplary embodiment the metadata of the BI document may include a customized URL to include context sensitive parameters for example specifying various filter passing geo location information and the like e.g. the metadata of the BI document sales revenue can be http www.myurl.com sales.png biurl myurl.com opendocument id ABCD filter Quarter1 . At activation box the received metadata is parsed. In other words keywords are automatically extracted from the received metadata to represent the BI document using an interactive graphical document insight element. In one embodiment the keywords include actionable information and non actionable information. For example considering a keyword sales.png is extracted a bitmap image sales.png has to be retrieved to display on the interactive graphical document insight element.

At step a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP HEAD request is sent to the corresponding web server e.g. the web server is associated with myurl.com to retrieve metadata of the bitmap image sales.png . The HTTP defines methods to indicate the desired action to be performed on the identified server. Further HTTP HEAD request is useful for retrieving meta information written in response headers without having to transport the entire content. At step the metadata of the bitmap image is received from the web server . At step based on the received metadata of the bitmap image the bitmap image parameters are checked e.g. size image format and the like . Further depending on the display capacity and the bitmap image parameters the bitmap image is fetched from the corresponding web server e.g. through HTTP GET request . At activation box the fetched bitmap image is rendered on the interactive graphical document insight element.

In one exemplary embodiment in a scenario where the referenced image is of larger size the HTTP HEAD request is sent to fetch only limited information instead of completely loading the image. This helps in reducing the data transfer significantly. In one exemplary embodiment instead of downloading the image every time the image can be locally stored for offline use as well. When checking whether re download the image is required or not the HTTP HEAD request can be sent to find out the image s updated time and only if it is different from the one that have downloaded re download the image can be done. This approach can even be extended for displaying information snippets. The HTTP HEAD request can be sent to fetch a brief description about the content e.g. document snapshot image giving basic information about the document instead of fully downloading the content. Further upon receipt of the image e.g. step the received image is rendered on a graphical user interface through the interactive graphical document insight element e.g. step .

In one exemplary embodiment the keywords related to a link may also point to an agnostic viewable content e.g. links to external documents such a Microsoft Word a Microsoft Excel an Adobe PDF and the like . The metadata of the agnostic viewable content associated with the document is retrieved using HTTP HEAD request to read a Content Type field and a Content Disposition field. Further the link may or may not contain the actual file name or type. For example consider the URL http www.myurl.comSalesData.xls. This indicates that the file name is SalesData and type is Microsoft Excel document. However in many cases the URL may not indicate the name and type of the document. For example consider the URL http www.myurl.com AXTSBRTD3RWD. In this case the HTTP HEAD is used to read the Content Type and Content Disposition fields of the HTTP response to determine the type of the document and its original name. This improves consumption experience with a reduced data transfer. For example the relevant headers can be Content Disposition attachment filename AnnualReport2012.pdf Content Type application pdf. Therefore it can be understood that the type is Adobe PDF document and name of the document should be shown as Annual Report 2012 . Also similar approach can be used for other document types.

Some embodiments may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. A computer readable storage medium may be a non transitory computer readable storage medium. Examples of a non transitory computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open Data Base Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the one or more embodiments. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the one or more embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the one or more embodiments are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the embodiments as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

