---

title: Systems and methods for securing email in mobile devices
abstract: A computer-implemented method for providing secure mobile email communications is described. At least one application programming interface (API) of a native email client is hooked in order to transmit data securely via email. The native email client is native to an operating system of the mobile device. An email originating from a registered application is detected, via the hooked API. The email includes the data to transmit securely. The registered application is registered in a registry according to a mobile application authentication procedure. The registry includes a plurality of registered applications authenticated according to the mobile application authentication procedure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143497&OS=09143497&RS=09143497
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09143497
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130719
---
The use of computer systems and computer related technologies continues to increase at a rapid pace. This increased use of computer systems has influenced the advances made to computer related technologies. Indeed computer systems have increasingly become an integral part of the business world and the activities of individual consumers. Computer systems may be used to carry out several business industry and academic endeavors. The wide spread use of computers has been accelerated by the increased use of computer networks including the Internet.

Many businesses use one or more computer networks to communicate and share data between the various computers connected to the networks. The productivity and efficiency of employees often require human and computer interaction. Users of computer technologies continue to demand an increase in the efficiency of these technologies. Improving the efficiency of computer technologies is always desirable to anyone who uses and relies on computers.

Computing systems may be mobile so that users may carry these systems as they travel shop work etc. A mobile computing device may host a number of concurrently running apps each capable of network communication. A component of the operating system of the mobile computing device one of the apps or a combination of the two may allow a user of the mobile computing device to use a native email client to send data associated with an application to another computer device. The process of sharing data associated with an application on a mobile computing device via the native email client may present opportunities for unintended recipients to acquire access to this data through unintended data leakage and data breaches.

According to at least one embodiment a computer implemented method for providing secure mobile communications in email is described. At least one application programming interface API associated with a native email client is hooked in order to transmit data securely via email. The native email client is native to an operating system of the mobile device. An email originating from a registered application is detected via the hooked API. The email includes the data to transmit securely. The registered application may be a mobile application that is registered in a registry according to a procedure used to authenticate mobile applications. The registry may include a plurality of registered applications authenticated according to the mobile application authentication procedure.

In one embodiment independent code may be executed in order to securely transmit the data via email. An executable of the independent code may be separate from an executable of the registered application. Upon detecting via the hooked API a call to the native email client from the registered application the data may be emailed via the native email client. Emailing the data via the native email client may include intercepting a call to a method associated with the native email client replacing the intercepted method of the native email client with a custom method from the independent code and allowing the user according to a policy configured to protect the data associated with the registered application to draft the email with an encrypted copy of the data associated with the registered application.

In some embodiments it may be determined via the independent code whether a registered email client is located on the mobile device. The registered email client may be registered in the registry of the encrypted file system according to the mobile application authentication procedure. Upon detecting via the hooked API a call to the native email client from the registered application and determining that the registered email client is located on the mobile device the data may be emailed via the registered email client. Emailing the data via the registered email client may include intercepting a call to an interface associated with the native email client replacing the intercepted interface of the native email client with a custom interface associated with the registered email client encrypting a copy of the data associated with the registered application using an encryption key associated with the registered email client and the mobile device and allowing the email to be sent via the registered email client according to a policy associated with the registered application. In some embodiments emailing the data via the registered email client may include intercepting a call to an interface of a display API replacing the intercepted interface with a custom interface derived from the independent code allowing the user to draft the email via the custom interface and according to a policy detecting the user pressing a send button associated with the custom interface and emailing the data via the registered email client.

In one embodiment it may be determined via the independent code whether a registered encryption gateway is associated with the native email client. The registered encryption gateway may be registered in the registry of the encrypted file system according to a gateway authentication procedure. Upon detecting via the hooked API a call to the native email client from the registered application and determining that the registered encryption gateway is associated with the native email client the data may be emailed via the registered encryption gateway. Emailing the data via the registered encryption gateway may include intercepting a call to a method associated with the native email client determining whether a policy associated with the registered application allows the user to draft the email and upon determining the policy associated with the registered application allows the user to draft the email replacing the intercepted method of the native email client with a custom method from the independent code.

In some embodiments emailing the data via the registered encryption gateway may include mapping a multipurpose internet mail extensions MIME type of the data associated with the registered application to a custom MIME type and encrypting a copy of the data associated with the registered application using an encryption key associated with the registered encrypted gateway. In one embodiment an encryption key pair may be generated as part of the mobile application authentication procedure where the encryption key pair is unique to the registered application and the mobile device. The encryption key pair may include a public encryption key and a private encryption key. Data associated with the registered application may be encrypted based on the encryption key pair.

A computer system configured to provide secure mobile communications in email is also described. The system may include a processor and memory in electronic communication with the processor. The memory may store instructions that are executable by the processor to hook at least one application programming interface API associated with a native email client in order to transmit data securely via email and to detect via the hooked API an email originating from a registered application. The native email client may be native to an operating system of the mobile device. The email may include the data to transmit securely. The registered application may be registered in a registry according to a mobile application authentication procedure. The registry may include a plurality of registered applications authenticated according to the mobile application authentication procedure.

A computer program product for providing secure mobile communications in email is also described. The computer program product may include a non transitory computer readable medium that stores instructions. The instructions may be executable by a processor to hook at least one API associated with a native email client in order to transmit data securely via email and to detect via the hooked API an email originating from a registered application. The native email client may be native to an operating system of the mobile device. The email may include the data to transmit securely. The registered application may be registered in a registry according to a mobile application authentication procedure. The registry may include a plurality of registered applications authenticated according to the mobile application authentication procedure.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

While the embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

A mobile computing device may host a number of concurrently running applications apps each capable of network communication. With the advent of mobile device app stores applications may be developed by relatively unknown entities across the globe. With relatively loose standards on mobile devices security risks are presented to otherwise secure networks through data leakage and data breaches. For example a software development kit SDK may allow a programmer to add a computer programming class i.e. an object oriented programming construct used to define distinct types of data to a mobile application that the programmer has created which allows a user of the mobile application to call methods subroutines objects instances and interfaces of the class without leaving the mobile application. For instance adding the MFMailComposeViewController class in an APPLE iOS mobile application may allow a user of the mobile application to compose and send email directly within the mobile application. This control may also allow the inclusion of file attachments which may result in data leakage and data breaches between the mobile application and other applications on the mobile device. Additionally policy regarding use of data associated with the mobile application may be violated e.g. corporate data security policies when a user emails the data as an attachment from a mobile device. The present systems and methods enable transparent and secure handling of encrypted data between mobile applications on a mobile device native email clients secure email clients and secure proxies without requiring changes to the underlying code of a mobile application.

Server may connect to database . Database may be internal or external to server . In some embodiments database is internal to mobile device . Alternatively mobile device may connect directly to database either through network or via a wired or wireless connection. Database may include application registry and policy .

Although computer system is shown and described herein with certain components and functionality other embodiments of the computer system may be implemented with fewer or more components or with less or more functionality. For example some embodiments of the computer system may not include a network a server an encrypted proxy server e.g. registered proxy server or other devices e.g. device . In some embodiments the computer system may include only mobile device and the operations of the present systems and methods occur on mobile device . Additionally some embodiments of the computer system may include multiple servers multiple networks one or more additional devices and or multiple encrypted proxy servers. In some embodiments the computer system may include similar components arranged in another manner to provide similar functionality in one or more aspects.

Mobile device and server may include secure email module . Although secure email module is depicted in as being located on both server and mobile device other embodiments of the computer system may include secure email module located solely on server or located solely on mobile device . Alternatively in some embodiments secure email module may operate concurrently on both server and mobile device . Examples of mobile device include a smartphone a tablet a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA and other similar handheld mobile computing devices. Examples of server include a proxy server a mail server a web server a server platform an application server a real time communication server a collaboration server a file transfer protocol FTP server a list server a telnet server a virtual server and the like. Network may include a virtual private network VPN system. Additionally network may include gateways firewalls nodes and other network devices.

In one embodiment the secure email module may be configured to secure data associated with registered application . For instance secure email module may prohibit data transfer between registered application and unregistered application provide secure data transfer between registered application and another registered application located on mobile device and provide secure communications of data between mobile device and another device e.g. server registered proxy server and or device via network . In one example secure email module may be configured to protect data whether it is emailed from mobile device via a native email client via registered email client and or through registered proxy server . In some embodiments reference to an application e.g. registered application and registered email client or an entity e.g. registered proxy server as being registered may represent a process through which the application or entity is registered in a registry e.g. application registry according to a predetermined authentication procedure for the purpose of preventing data leakage and data breaches. The authentication procedure may be specified by and implemented according to policy . Examples of protocols associated with registration in the encrypted file system registry may include encryption of data based on encryption key pairs and data security policies that dictate how and when data may be communicated and shared in relation to registered applications unregistered applications registered entities and unregistered entities. Thus according to policy and in conjunction with registered application registered email client and registered proxy server secure email module may ensure the secure communication of data to from and within mobile device . Further details regarding the secure email module are provided below with regards to the following figure descriptions.

In one embodiment secure email module may be configured to communicate data securely between mobile device server registered proxy server and or device in a manner that minimizes data leakage and data breaches. The secure mobile communications may be established at least in part via secure email module authenticating one or more applications and or entities and registering the authenticated applications and or entities in application registry . In some embodiments the secure email module may determine whether an application on a mobile device or an external entity with which mobile device communicates is registered in application registry . As described above a registered application is an application that can communicate data associated with the registered application without placing the communicated data in jeopardy of data leakage or a data breach. Thus the secure email module may be configured to establish an email communication protocol for the secure communication of data between registered applications on mobile device and a device external to mobile device .

In one embodiment API hooking module may be configured to hook at least one API of an operating system that is associated with a native email client for the purpose of securely transmitting data via email. The native email client may be the native or default email client of the operating system of the mobile device. Thus API hooking module may detect a call to initiate a function method and or interface of the native email client where the call originates from a registered application. The email may include the data that is to be transmitted securely via secure email module . The registered application may be any mobile application located on a mobile device e.g. mobile device that is registered in a registry e.g. application registry according to an authentication procedure such as a procedure to authenticate mobile applications installed on a mobile device.

In one embodiment application registry may be configured according to policy which may be administered by a user or administrator of system . Policy may specify how to treat data at rest data in use and data in motion associated with registered application . For example policy may specify how data may be shared between applications what to do with data received by registered application how to handle data sent from registered application and the like. For instance if an administrator configures a policy to encrypt the data of one or more registered applications then independent code associated with the secure email module i.e. code that is executed separately from the code of the registered application may encrypt data of the one or more registered applications. The policy may specify how data may be shared between registered and unregistered applications e.g. allow sharing between registered applications and block sharing between registered applications and unregistered applications and how data from a registered application may be transferred securely to an external device e.g. from mobile device to device . In one embodiment secure email module may encrypt the writing of data to registered application in order to secure the data according to the settings of policy . Additionally secure email module may decrypt a reading of data from registered application to allow the data to be emailed in a readable form according to the settings of policy . In some embodiments secure email module may intercept a call to a method object initiation interface or instance of a class reference of the operating system e.g. a call to the MFMailComposeViewController class reference and replace the interface of a native class reference with a customized method object initiation interface or instance. The customized interface may include methods and operations similar to the interface of the native class reference. For example an interface of an email class reference may include fields for To CC BCC Subject and Body as well as user interface controls such as Send Attach and Cancel. However using the customized interface secure email module may enable and disable methods and interface elements of the replaced native interface according to the settings of policy . For example the customized interface may allow a user to send an email e.g. allowing a canSendMail method according to a setting of policy but block the user from attaching data to the email e.g. blocking a canAttachData method according to a setting of policy .

In one embodiment policy may specify how and or whether data associated with a particular registered application may be shared emailed or transferred. Thus secure email module may ensure that data associated with a particular registered application may allow decryption of the data for viewing the data from the particular registered application but block all other uses. For instance if a user attempts to email the data or share the data with another application secure email module may block the operation by canceling any calls to class references or APIs. In response to blocking the use of the data secure email module may provide a notification message to a user that the operation is blocked. In some embodiments policy may specify that data from a registered application may be emailed. In this case secure email module may intercept a call to a class reference or API replace an interface of the called class reference with a customized interface with controls and methods enabled according to policy . If policy specifies that data at rest is stored in an encrypted state secure email module may also maintain all copies of the data e.g. copies of the data placed temporarily in a pasteboard or clipboard until emailed decrypting the copy before it is emailed. In some embodiments secure email module may implement a customized pasteboard e.g. an encrypted pasteboard using an encryption key pair of a registered application entity .

Thus in some embodiments the registry may be administered and operated by an administrator e.g. administrator of system . Application registry may include a plurality of registered applications that are authenticated according to the mobile application authentication procedure which procedure may be stipulated by policy . Additionally or alternatively application registry may include a plurality of authenticated entities devices servers gateways etc. that are allowed to interact and communicate with registered application according to the settings of policy and by virtue of being registered in the registry.

In one embodiment secure email module in conjunction with a processor may execute code that is independent e.g. independent code from code associated with a mobile application on a mobile device e.g. registered application allowing secure email module to transmit securely data from a mobile application without any modification to the mobile application s code. Thus secure email module may execute independent code in order to securely transmit the data via email. Thus an executable of the independent code may be separate from an executable of a mobile application on the mobile device e.g. registered application .

In some embodiments secure email module in conjunction with compliance module may scan mobile device for registered applications and entities to enable the secure communication of data associated with registered application . In one embodiment secure email module in conjunction with independent code may determine whether a registered email client is located on mobile device . In one embodiment secure email module in conjunction with independent code may determine whether a registered encryption gateway is associated with native email client .

Upon determining a registered email client is not located on mobile device and that a registered encryption gateway is not associated with native email client secure email module may securely transmit data to and from registered application in conjunction with native email client . Thus upon detecting via a hooked API a call to an interface associated with native email client from registered application secure email module may securely email the data in conjunction with native email client and according to the settings of policy . In one embodiment substitution module may intercept a call to a method e.g. method object initiation instance interface of an object oriented class or type associated with a native process of an operating system of a mobile device e.g. native email client on mobile device . Substitution module may replace the intercepted method associated with the native email client with a custom method. The custom method may be associated with the independent code . In some embodiments compliance module may allow a user according to a policy e.g. policy configured to protect the data associated with a registered application to draft the email with data associated with the registered application. The data that is emailed may include an encrypted copy of the data associated with the registered application. For example secure email module may temporarily store an encrypted copy of the data on a pasteboard used for temporary data storage and or data transfer. Before sending the email secure email module may decrypt the encrypted copy to allow the data to be read by the recipient of the email.

Upon determining a registered email client is located on mobile device secure email module may send the email in conjunction with the registered email client e.g. registered email client and according to the settings of a data security policy e.g. policy . In one example registered email client may be registered in application registry according to a specified authentication procedure of policy . Registered email client may operate according to the settings of policy in order to secure the transmission of data to and from registered application . Thus upon detecting via the hooked API a call to the native email client from a registered application and determining that a registered email client is located on mobile device secure email module may email data from registered application via registered email client . In one embodiment substitution module may intercept a call to an interface of a native email client. Substitution module may replace the intercepted interface of the native email client with a custom interface associated with a registered email client. In one embodiment encryption module may encrypt a copy of the data associated with the registered application using an encryption key that is unique to and associated only with the registered email client and the mobile device. In one embodiment compliance module may allow the email to be sent via the registered email client in accordance with one or more settings of policy . In some embodiments substitution module may intercept a call to an interface of a display API. Substitution module may replace the intercepted interface with a custom interface from independent code . The custom display interface may include customized methods and functions allowing the user to draft an email and add data to the email. The enabled functions of the custom display interface may allow a user to draft an email while maintaining the security of data sent in the email according to policy . Substitution module may detect the user pressing a send button associated with the custom interface. Upon detecting the press of the send button secure email module may remove the custom interface from view and email the data via registered email client .

Upon determining an encryption gateway is associated with a native email client on mobile device secure email module may send the email in conjunction with the encryption gateway e.g. registered proxy server and according to the settings of a data security policy e.g. policy . In one example registered proxy server may be registered in application registry according to a specified authentication procedure of policy . Thus registered proxy server may operate according to the settings of policy in order to secure the transmission of data to and from registered application . Upon detecting via the hooked API a call to a native email client from a registered application and determining that a registered proxy server is associated with the native email client secure email module may email the data securely in conjunction with registered proxy server . Substitution module may intercept a call to a method of a native email client. Before allowing a user to draft an email compliance module may determine whether a policy associated with the registered application allows the user to draft the email. Upon determining the policy associated with the registered application allows the user to draft the email substitution module may replace the intercepted method of the native email client with a custom method associated with the registered email client. In some embodiments encryption module may encrypt a copy of the data associated with a registered application using an encryption key that is unique to and associated only with registered proxy server .

In some embodiments encryption module may generate as part of an authentication procedure to be registered in application registry an encryption key pair that is unique to the registered application and the mobile device the encryption key pair comprising a public encryption key and a private encryption key wherein data associated with the registered application is encrypted based on the encryption key pair.

In one embodiment secure email module may associate a custom data type with the data associated with a registered application. Examples of data types may include multipurpose internet mail extensions MIME types uniform type identifiers UTIs filename extensions and generally any type of data file. For example if data typically associated with a mobile application included text file e.g. TXT data type secure email module may assign a custom data type e.g. SECURE TXT data type upon registering the mobile application in application registry . Thus in some embodiments mapping module may map a MIME type of the data associated with a registered application to a custom MIME type. Mapping module may store mappings between registered applications and custom data types in database thus enabling secure email module to identify which registered applications can handle certain custom data types.

At block at least one application programming interface API associated with a native email client of an operating system on a mobile device may be hooked in order to securely transmit data to and from the mobile device via email. The native email client may be native to the operating system of the mobile device. At block an email originating from a registered application may be detected via the hooked API. The email may include the data to transmit securely. The registered application may be registered in a registry according to a mobile application authentication procedure. The registry may be part of a policy maintained by an administrator that defines how data from a group of authenticated mobile applications may be transferred between registered and unregistered applications and from one device to another device.

At block at least one application programming interface API associated with a native email client of an operating system on a mobile device may be hooked in order to securely transmit data to and from the mobile device via email. At block code independent of the registered application e.g. an executable separate from an executable of the registered application may be executed to transmit the data securely via email in accordance with a policy configured to protect data of registered applications. At block a call to a method associated with the native email client may be intercepted by the independent code. At block the intercepted method may be replaced with a custom method. At block a copy of the data associated with the registered application that is being emailed may be encrypted using an encryption key that is linked solely to the registered application and the mobile device. At block a data type that is typically associated with the mobile application registered in the registry i.e. the registered application may be mapped to a custom data type.

At block an initiation of an email e.g. a method call initialization of an email class reference initiation of an email interface a call to an API associated with an email client etc. may be detected on a mobile device. The initiation of the email may originate from a registered application in relation to data associated with the registered application. At block it may be determined whether a registered email client is installed on the mobile device. At block upon determining a registered email is installed on the mobile device a user may be allowed to draft an email according to the settings of a data security policy. At block the email may be sent in conjunction with the registered email client.

Upon determining a registered email is not installed on the mobile device at block it may be determined whether a registered proxy server is associated with a native email client on a mobile device. At block upon determining a registered proxy server is associated with a native email client on the mobile device a user may be allowed to draft an email according to the settings of a data security policy. At block the email may be sent in conjunction with the registered proxy server.

Upon determining a registered email is not installed on the mobile device and that a registered proxy server is not associated with a native email client on a mobile device at block a user may be allowed to draft an email according to the settings of a data security policy. At block the email may be sent in conjunction with the native email client.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is generally the main memory into which the operating system and application programs are loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components or devices. For example the secure email module to implement the present systems and methods may be stored within the system memory . The secure email module may be one example of the secure email module depicted in and or . Applications resident with mobile device may be stored on and accessed via a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive an optical drive or other storage medium. Additionally applications can be in the form of electronic signals modulated in accordance with the application and data communication technology when accessed via a network.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is generally the main memory into which the operating system and application programs are loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components or devices. For example the secure email module to implement the present systems and methods may be stored within the system memory . Applications resident with computer system are generally stored on and accessed via a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk or other storage medium. Additionally applications can be in the form of electronic signals modulated in accordance with the application and data communication technology when accessed via interface .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present systems and methods. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . The operation of a computer system such as that shown in is readily known in the art and is not discussed in detail in this application. Code to implement the present disclosure can be stored in a non transitory computer readable medium such as one or more of system memory or fixed disk . The operating system provided on computer system may be iOS MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 UNIX LINUX or another known operating system.

Moreover regarding the signals described herein those skilled in the art will recognize that a signal can be directly transmitted from a first block to a second block or a signal can be modified e.g. amplified attenuated delayed latched buffered inverted filtered or otherwise modified between the blocks. Although the signals of the above described embodiment are characterized as transmitted from one block to the next other embodiments of the present systems and methods may include modified signals in place of such directly transmitted signals as long as the informational and or functional aspect of the signal is transmitted between blocks. To some extent a signal input at a second block can be conceptualized as a second signal derived from a first signal output from a first block due to physical limitations of the circuitry involved e.g. there will inevitably be some attenuation and delay . Therefore as used herein a second signal derived from a first signal includes the first signal or any modifications to the first signal whether due to circuit limitations or due to passage through other circuit elements which do not change the informational and or final functional aspect of the first signal.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

Furthermore while various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present systems and methods and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the present systems and methods and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

