---

title: Approaches for sharing data between electronic devices
abstract: Systems and approaches are provided to enable multiple user devices to share data between devices. In one scenario, a user may click on or touch a telephone hyperlink from a browser of a desktop computer to initiate a telephone call from the user's mobile phone. In another situation, a user may begin various computing tasks from a tablet in the evening, share data associated relating to her work with a business computer, and complete her tasks the next day in the office with little to no minimal disruption to her work flow. In effect, the user may “cut” or “copy” data from a first personal computing device and paste that “data” onto a second computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08964947&OS=08964947&RS=08964947
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08964947
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130311
---
Many users own or are provided with multiple personal electronic devices such as a personal computer for business home personal computer tablet landline business telephone home landline telephone business issued smartphone personal mobile phone or other media player e.g. TV DVR video game console portable audio device . These personal electronic devices are becoming increasingly integral parts of users lives such that for many periods of the day many users can be seen operating one or another of their devices. However use of some of a user s electronic devices can be limited in certain situations by factors such as location user context or suitability of a device for a computing task. For example a user s office desktop computer may only be available to the user during business hours a personal laptop computer may not be accessible while the user is driving or a smartphone may not be convenient for some users to create edit and or view substantial amounts of content such as text image animation and or video. Under certain circumstances a user may find herself interacting with a particular personal electronic device when another device may be more suitable or more preferable for performing a specific task. In some situations switching to the other device may not be an option if the other device is not immediately accessible. In other cases users may find conventional approaches to switching to the other device inefficient and burdensome.

In certain situations a user who may be interfacing with data on a first personal electronic device may instead elect to continue interacting with that data on a second personal electronic device for various of the aforementioned and other reasons discussed herein. To facilitate this the data that the user was initially interacting with on the first device must somehow be shared on the second device. A conventional approach for sharing of data between devices is file sharing. A typical process for file sharing may require the user to select the data to be shared from a first application executing on the first device use a second application on the first device such as a content editing application capable of recognizing the format of the selected data e.g. word processor spreadsheet program image editor video editor etc. create a new file corresponding to an instance or data type supported by the second application e.g. document spreadsheet JPEG GIF PNG etc. insert the selected data into the file and use a third application on the first device to send the file to the second device e.g. email client ftp client cloud storage client . To access the data from the second device the user may be required to use a fifth application on the second device e.g. corresponding client network communication application to obtain the file and a sixth application on the second device e.g. content editing application capable of recognizing the file type to access the selected data and perform an intended task. This process can be onerous to a user who may simply desire to propagate a small amount of selected data from one device to another. In addition creation of a new file can also result in metadata that can be significantly larger than the size of the selected data itself. For example if the selected data comprises a single byte character creating a file consisting of a single byte character may result in the file being as large as 16.0 KB using certain applications. Thus additional data storage space may be taken up on both the first device and the second device and can result in more data or bandwidth usage associated with sending the data than the user anticipated. The user would also have redundant files that may require clean up on both devices. Although some of these steps can be skipped if a client application can be used to edit content and directly send the content e.g. email Short Message Service SMS text editor instant message IM application virtual notetaking software etc. if the selected data originated from a different application the user would have to cut or copy the selected data and open the client application to paste the selected data into a file to send to the second device. From the second device the user may have to cut or copy the data from the file sent to the second device using a corresponding client application and paste the selected data into a suitable application to perform an intended task. Thus the user may have to perform more steps than preferred using such an approach.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may overcome one or more of the aforementioned and other deficiencies experienced in conventional approaches to sharing data between devices. In particular various embodiments enable a user interacting with data selected from a first device to directly share that selected data with a second device. Such data may be characterized as ephemeral because it is not persisted as a file in the file system of the first device. Although the data may correspond to a file in the file system that the data was acquired by a user selecting the data from a running application indicates that the selected data resides in the first device s cache memory or random access memory RAM and will be overwritten when a central processing unit CPU of the first device performs new instructions. For example a selected hyperlink is an example of ephemeral data. Although the selected hyperlink may correspond to a file stored in a web browser cache for rendering for display to the user when the user clicks on or touches the hyperlink the data corresponding to the hyperlink is loaded into RAM or cache memory for processing and that data will be subsequently replaced by new instructions for the CPU. Various embodiments enable for sharing of data such as ephemeral data between devices to avoid conventional file storage techniques.

In various embodiments from a first device the user can select to share data with one or more other devices based on the proximity of the second device and or suitability of the other devices to perform certain computing tasks. In certain situations the other device may not be available for sharing data such as if the second device is turned off or the first device and or the second device are incapable of connecting with one another. In some embodiments the second device will not be selectable from the first device or an interface will indicate that the second device is unavailable. In other embodiments a notification can be provided to the first device that the other device is unavailable. In some embodiments the first device can further cause additional actions or tasks to be performed on the second device after data has been shared between devices. For instance a user may be editing an image at the office and chooses to complete image editing from a home laptop. In an embodiment the user may share the working image data on the office computer with the home laptop and can further cause the home laptop to execute an image editing application to open the working image data. When the user operates the home laptop the user is able to immediately continue working with where she last left off and thereby minimize disruption to her work flow as compared with conventional approaches.

In some embodiments a first device may automatically recognize telephone numbers within a file and a single click or touch by the user on a phone number will cause a second device to dial in the phone number. This may be particularly advantageous when the first device is a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet and the user would prefer to make the phone call from a landline telephone or mobile phone. In other embodiments a user may select a telephone number within a file and perform a right click or similar gesture for a touch interface such as a touch of a second finger that causes a context menu shortcuts a pop up menu a dialog box or other such interface to be displayed on the first device that allows a user to directly select the telephone number to be dialed in from a second device. In this manner the user can click from a first device and call from a second device.

Many other alternatives and variations are described and suggested below in relation to at least some of the various embodiments.

Conventional web based approaches for enabling a first user to click on or touch a telephone number to launch a telephone call with a second user associated with the telephone number may be referred to as click to call. As used herein a click may refer to a left click or primary button press of a mouse or touchpad or a touch on a touch interface. Simply referring to a user input as a click should not be construed to mean that an embodiment is limited to a button press. As is known to those of ordinary skill a touch on a touch interface can be interpreted by a computing device as a similar input as a button click using a mouse pointing stick touchpad or similar input device. In one conventional approach clicking on a telephone number link will prompt a dialog box requiring the user to enter her phone number in order for the second user to place the call. For some users it may be inconvenient to type in their respective telephone numbers and or be at the behest of the second user to initiate the call. Other users may want more direct control over making a telephone call out of concerns for security and privacy and may not be willing to provide their telephone numbers to an unknown entity. Other conventional approaches allow a device with telephony capabilities such as a desktop computer laptop or tablet equipped with a microphone and speaker that enables Voice over IP VoIP or a smartphone capable of connecting to a cellular network to trigger a phone call directly from the device upon clicking on a telephone number link. There are many instances however in which this may be undesirable. Desktop computers laptops and tablets are not generally designed for making telephone calls and placing a call from such devices may be an awkward experience for some users. In addition the quality of the phone call may be degraded by bandwidth limitations that can result in latency and or jitter or hardware e.g. microphone speakers that provides poor performance particularly with respect to a landline telephone or smartphone. In other circumstances a user may be operating a smartphone indoors to browse a website using a Wi Fi connection but may want to conduct a phone call from a landline telephone because Wi Fi reception and or cellular connectivity may be less reliable. In addition using the smartphone phone over VoIP may not be favored by some users because of issues such as security breaches or power failures that may not affect landline telephones. Approaches in accordance with various embodiments can address some of these deficiencies.

In the example of and selection of one of the telephone number elements or e.g. by clicking on the element while a cursor is positioned over the element or touching the element with a finger or stylus causes the smartphone to automatically dial in the telephone number corresponding to the element selected by the user. In some embodiments a device may automatically dial in a telephone number but may also prompt the user for confirmation that the call can be put through before actually dialing the number. In some embodiments a new pop up window an HTML overlay on the web page or other such interface can be displayed to the user after clicking or touching one of the telephone number elements or to indicate that the second device is dialing in the telephone number.

Although a desktop computer and a smartphone is used in the example of and alternative embodiments use various configurations for enabling a user to share data between a user s multiple devices. illustrates an example of one such configuration . In this example a user has associated her multiple personal electronic devices with one another by installing client applications and to a tablet a mobile phone a VoIP telephone a laptop and a desktop computer respectively. The tablet mobile phone laptop and desktop computer each comprise computing systems capable of sending to and receiving data from other computing systems including audio data by incorporating or being connected to a microphone and speakers. These devices may provide multiple ways for a user to place a phone call. For example the mobile phone can connect to a cellular network or use one of many commercially available VoIP software applications over a Wi Fi network to conduct a telephone conversation. These devices also include an operating system that may be the same or complementary to another device or may be a distinct platform from any other device. For example the tablet and mobile phone share a similar operating system despite differences in architecture while the laptop and desktop computer may use different operating systems despite sharing a similar architecture. The VoIP telephone comprises a dedicated VoIP telephone with an embedded operating system and is connected to a network via an Ethernet port. Some VoIP telephones also include wireless network connectivity in addition to a wired network connection. In other embodiments a conventional digital or analog telephone may also be adapted to support VoIP using a telephone adapter. The telephone adapter can further include a computing system with an embedded operating system capable of executing a VoIP client application such as VoIP client .

Client applications and are software applications that enable respective devices to communicate with one another over a common network. In one embodiment the client applications comprise proprietary client software on the devices to connect to the Whispersync network. Other embodiments may be implemented as platform or operating system application programming interfaces APIs that can be integrated into user applications for a particular platform or operating system. In still other embodiments standard client software such as a web browser can be used as client software and devices may be connected through a web interface or via a plug in web browser toolbar and the like. In some embodiments the system can be implemented adapting or overlaying a messaging protocol such as transport layer protocols Transmission Control Protocol TCP User Datagram Protocol UDP or Stream Control Transmission Protocol SCTP or application layer protocols Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Post Office Protocol POP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP Extensible Message and Presence Protocol XMPP Internet Relay Chat IRC Push Access Protocol PAP or other messaging protocols. In other embodiments a system may be implemented based on a streaming protocol adapted from or overlaying Real time Transport Protocol RTP RTP Control Protocol RTCP Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP or similar protocol. In still other embodiments the system may be implemented as a web services model using Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP over HTTP or similar approaches. Some embodiments may also be implemented using or overlaying SMS text messaging services. However such approaches may be less advantageous than others in view of the size limitations of SMS texts.

At least some of the user s devices may be able to determine their own geographic locations such as if the device includes a OPS Wi Fi cellular network component or similar mechanism. Some of the user s devices may also be able to determine their own relative positions with respect to other devices when a device includes a Bluetooth radio frequency RF or near field communications NFC component or a sensor such as a camera proximity sensor distance sensor depth sensor etc. Location can also be estimated from an IP address associated with a device or location information of a particular device such as a desktop computer or landline telephone may also be specified by a user. Systems and approaches for determining geographic location and relative position are known to those of ordinary skill in the art and will not be discussed herein in detail. In various embodiments when a user desires to share data between devices the user may select from a first device one or more of her other devices for receiving the data. In at least some embodiments the other devices that can be selected for sharing data may be provided based on a specified proximity to the user or first device. The specified proximity may be based on the nature of the data to be shared with the other devices and actions to be performed on the other devices utilizing the shared data. For example if the data to be shared comprises a telephone number and the action relates to initiating a telephone or telecommunication call on one of the other devices a default specified proximity may be for each of the other devices to be within 10 feet of the user or first device. In some embodiments the specified proximity can be a threshold distance between devices and distance can be estimated by determining geolocations between the first device and the other devices using GPS Wi Fi or cellular network components and or triangulating respective device locations using various sensors such as image sensors proximity sensors distance sensors depth sensors etc. In other embodiments the specified proximity may be less precise and the other devices may be determined to be within the specified proximity of the first device based on assumptions such as devices sharing the same Wi Fi connection being within range of a same cellular radio tower being able to connect to one another via Bluetooth RF or NFC being able to capture an image of the other device from the first device being able to detect a signal or pattern from the first device specifically emitted by the second device e.g. ultrasonic or infrared or other similar such approaches. In some embodiments the user may also be able to reconfigure devices to specify proximities between a first device and other devices for various use cases according to her own preferences. In various embodiments a listing of devices within the specified proximity of the user or the first device can be provided to the user for selection to share data and or perform certain computing tasks on a selected device. The listing may be provided in an order based on the respective proximity of the other devices with respect to the first device. The listing may also include information regarding the respective proximity of each of the other devices the respective distance of each of the other devices and or the respective location of each of the other devices. The displayed location of each of the other devices devices location may be based on the respective geolocation coordinates of the other devices a geographical location e.g. country state city geographical address etc. location within a home e.g. living room kitchen den etc. location within a building location with a room e.g. desk bookshelf etc. or other descriptive information about location.

In certain situations some of the user s other devices may be unavailable for a variety of reasons. For example the other device may be powered down the first device and or other device may lack connectivity with a common network or similar such situations. Under these circumstances when the user elects to share data with multiple devices those devices that are unavailable may be excluded in a listing of devices that the user can select from to share data or a user interface may indicate that the unavailable device cannot be selected such as graying out the unavailable device or providing an icon indicating that the unavailable cannot be selected Alternatively or in addition the user may be notified that the other device is unavailable after attempting to share data with that device.

Sub menu option corresponds to a command from the first device to insert the selected data into a clipboard on the second device. A clipboard can refer to an operating system feature typically implemented as a runtime data buffer that enables a user to copy a selection of data onto the buffer that can be shared by most if not all applications running on the operating system. On some devices a clipboard may only support single transactions such that every cut or copy command overwrites the previous contents of the clipboard. On certain other platforms multiple transactions may be supported wherein several cut or copy commands can be stored and queued up to a certain number of cut and copy transactions. Typically cut or copy commands in these platforms are ordered last in first out such that a paste operation will correspond to the last cut or copy command by default but an interface may be provided for the user to select data from a different portion of the queue from which to paste a selection of data. Preferably the second device supports multiple transactions to ensure that the user is less likely to accidentally overwrite the previous contents of the clipboard. For those devices running on platforms that only support single clipboard transactions the second device can require confirmation from the user at the second device to overwrite the contents of the clipboard before the Paste into Clipboard command is invoked on the second device. Clipboard data can be limited to plaintext in some operating systems. Other operating systems support multiple types of data including text image or video as well as metadata associated with such data. For example a cut or copy command from a selection of data in a word processing document may preserve the plaintext as well as the font style color etc. specified in the original document from which the cut or copy command was invoked. Similarly a cut or copy command from a selection of data in a spreadsheet file may retain the formulas and data used to calculate the selected data. In some embodiments the Paste into Clipboard command will provide the selected data in as many data formats as possible so as to be more likely to recognizable by multiple platforms and applications of a second device. In some embodiments where both the first device and second device support a multi transaction clipboard the entire contents of the clipboard of the first device can be shared with the clipboard of the second device such as a Paste all into Clipboard command.

Sub menu option corresponds to a command from the first device for the second device to open a specified application on the second device and pass the selected data as input for the specified application. For instance a user may be operating a desktop computer at the office and making plans for that evening by browsing the Internet for a restaurant to patronize. Using the various approaches disclosed herein the user can select the physical address for a restaurant from the desktop web browser and direct his mobile phone to open a mapping application on the mobile phone if the map application is not already running to receive the selected data corresponding to the restaurant address as an input to the map application. In other cases the specified application may create a file or other data structure of a type and data format corresponding to the specified application and insert the selected data into the file. For example the selected data may comprise text and the specified application on the second device may be an email client SMS text editor or instant messenger. Selection of one of these applications may cause the second device to launch the application to generate a new email text message or instant message respectively which incorporates the selected data.

Although the telephone numbers in the spreadsheet in and have not been automatically recognized as telephone numbers it will be appreciated that telephone numbers can be automatically recognized outside of a web browser in other embodiments. For example many conventional content viewing and editing programs such as word processors spreadsheet programs email clients PDF viewers etc. use a web engine to render HTML. Data expressed in HTML format in such applications may be rendered for display as the data would be displayed by a web browser. Further telephone numbers may be encoded in HTML using the tel uniform resource identifier URI scheme. For instance data cell can be encoded as 

When a user clicks on or touches an element encoded in this manner and rendered for display as a hyperlink by a content editing or viewing application the device s operating system will invoke the application designated to handle the tel URI scheme and pass the telephone number as a parameter to the designated application. Many device operating systems include a registry that enables developers to designate a specific application for handling particular file types or URI schemes. The operating system registry of a first device can be modified to invoke the client application that causes the second device to dial a selected number as the handler for the tel URI scheme. In other embodiments a custom URI scheme can be used to encode telephone numbers and the device operating system registry can be configured to launch the client application upon selection of an element encoded using the custom URI scheme. Another approach for automating detection of telephone numbers can be to use regular expressions. For instance telephone numbers are often expressed in a limited number of formats such as 

Plug ins for content viewing and editing applications or operating system level programming interfaces can be developed that use regular expressions to find these limited number of patterns and render data matching the patterns in a manner such that a user could select a telephone number with a single click that calls the client application on the first device to direct the second device to dial a selected telephone number. Various other approaches can be used to automatically detect telephone numbers within text image or video data as is familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art and will not be discussed further herein in detail.

In various embodiments a user may be associated with multiple devices and a request by the user to share data with a second device may cause a determination of which of the user s other devices are available for sharing data with the user s first device. In at least some embodiments when multiple devices are available a listing of the available devices can be provided to the user when the available devices are within a specified proximity of the user s first device . As discussed herein the specified proximity may comprise a threshold distance between the first device and available devices or may be based on various assumptions regarding device proximity such as devices assuming to be proximate when devices share a common Wi Fi connection being within range of a common cellular radio tower or other approaches for short range wireless connectivity or sensing. The shared data can then be sent to a selected second device whereupon there may be a determination regarding the second application for receiving the ephemeral data . In the event that the second device is commanded to initiate a telephone call the second device may automatically execute a telephony application to initiate a telephone or telecommunication call using the telephone number corresponding to the shared data. In the event that action is determined to comprise creating new content the second device may execute a content editing application to create a new file and insert the shared data into the new file without a user directly operating the second device. Content can refer to text image audio animation and or video data and a content editing application enables a user to create or edit such data. A content editing application may include a word processor Portable Document Format PDF editor notetaking program spreadsheet program presentation program database diagramming program image editor video editor email client SMS text editor instant messenger a social networking client enabling status updates or messaging or variations thereof. In the event that that the action relates to the respective clipboard features of the first and second device the shared data may be inserted into the clipboard . Although example process describes instances where the second application may be a telephony application content editor or clipboard it will be appreciated that the disclosure herein is not so limited. For example various embodiments also allow for a user to select a geographical address displayed in a browser in one device and send that selected address to a mapping application on a second device so that map directions can be pre loaded on the second device select a URL whether in the form of a bookmark or an http address to be pre loaded on a web browser of the second device and auto fill contact information or a calendar or appointment entry from a selection of data. Other similar approaches are contemplated by this disclosure and are well within the scope of the invention.

In order to provide various functionality described herein illustrates an example set of basic components of a computing device . In this example the device includes one or more processors for executing instructions that can be stored in memory . As would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art memory can include many types of data storage or non transitory computer readable storage media such as data storage for program instructions for execution by the processor a separate storage that can be used for images or data a removable memory for sharing information with other devices etc.

The device includes a display element such as a touch screen electronic ink e ink organic light emitting diode OLED or liquid crystal display LCD etc. although devices such as portable media players might convey information via other means such as through audio speakers. In at least some embodiments the display screen provides for touch swipe based and or hover input using for example capacitive resistive infrared optical image piezoelectric acoustic or ultrasonic sensor technology. The device in many embodiments will include one or more cameras or other image capture elements for capturing image and video content. In at least some embodiments the device can use the image or video information to determine gestures or motions of the user which will enable the user to provide input through the device without having to actually contact and or move the device. A camera can include or be based at least in part upon any appropriate technology such as a CCD or CMOS image sensor having a sufficient resolution focal range viewable area to capture image or video data. An image sensor can also include an infrared sensor that is able to image projected images or other objects in the vicinity of the device. Methods for capturing images or video using a camera with a computing device are well known in the art and will not be discussed herein in detail. It should be understood that image capture can be performed using a single image multiple images periodic imaging continuous image capturing image streaming etc. Further a device can include the ability to start and or stop image capture such as when receiving a command from a user application or other device.

The device in many embodiments will include an audio input and or output element such as a microphone or audio speaker s . The microphone may be a mono or stereo microphone or microphone array operable to capture audio information from at least one primary direction. A microphone can be a uni or omni directional microphone as known for such components. The microphone may be used to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition digital recording etc. In addition the device can use voice recognition to determine people near the device such as children and can disable or enable features such as Internet access or parental controls based thereon. Further the device can analyze recorded noise to attempt to determine an environment such as whether the device is in a car or on a plane and that determination can help to decide which features to enable disable or which actions are taken based upon other inputs. If voice recognition is used words can be used as input either directly spoken to the device or indirectly as picked up through conversation. For example if the device determines that it is in a car facing the user and detects a word such as hungry or eat then the device may turn on the display element and display information for nearby restaurants etc. A user can have the option of turning off voice recording and conversation monitoring for privacy and other such purposes. The audio speaker s may perform audio output. In some embodiments the audio speaker s may reside separately from the device.

The device may also include a motion orientation element that can provide information such as a position direction motion or orientation of the device. The motion orientation element can include an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation or an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction in which the device is determined to be facing. The motion orientation element also or alternatively can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. The device can include other elements as well such as may enable location determinations through triangulation or another such approach. These mechanisms can communicate with the processor whereby the device can perform any of a number of actions described or suggested herein.

The example device also includes one or more communication elements or networking sub systems such as a Wi Fi cellular Bluetooth RF wired or wireless communication system. The device in many embodiments can communicate with a network such as the Internet and may be able to communicate with other such devices. The example device includes various power components known in the art for providing power to a computing device which can include capacitive charging elements for use with a power pad or similar device as discussed elsewhere herein.

The example device can also include one or more additional input elements able to receive conventional input from a user. This conventional input can include for example a push button touch pad touch screen wheel joystick keyboard mouse trackball keypad or any other such device or element whereby a user can input a command to the device. These I O devices could even be connected by a wireless infrared or Bluetooth or other link as well in some embodiments. In some embodiments however such a device might not include any buttons at all and might be controlled only through a combination of visual e.g. gesture and audio e.g. spoken commands such that a user can control the device without having to be in contact with the device. In some embodiments an additional input element may include a touch and or pressure sensitive element such as a touch sensitive material around a casing of the device with at least one region capable of providing squeeze based input to the device etc. In some embodiments this material can be used to determine motion such as of the device or a user s finger for example while in other embodiments the material will be used to provide specific inputs or commands. In some embodiments the additional input element may also include a proximity sensor which can be part of or separate from the display assembly. The proximity sensor may be implemented using capacitive inductive optical image infrared laser magnetic acoustic or ultrasonic sensor technology or other mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. The proximity sensor can be operated to determine relative distances or absolute distances with respect to the device or with respect to objects in the vicinity of the device. In some embodiments the additional input element may further include other sensors such as a thermometer altimeter barometer humidity sensor health monitor e.g. heart rate blood pressure blood glucose level etc. or environmental sensor e.g. pollen count air quality UV radiation .

In some embodiments the additional input element may include a light detecting sensor that is able to determine whether the device is exposed to ambient light or is in relative or complete darkness. Such an element can be beneficial in a number of ways. In some embodiments a light detecting element can be used to determine when a user is holding the device to the user s face causing the light detecting element to be substantially shielded from ambient light which can trigger an action such as the display element of the device to temporarily shut off since the user cannot see the display element while holding the device to the user s ear . The light detecting element could also be used in conjunction with information from other elements to adjust the functionality of the device. For example if the device is unable to detect a user s view location and a user is not holding the device but the device is exposed to ambient light the device might determine that it has likely been set down by the user and might turn off the display element and disable certain functionality. If the device is unable to detect a user s view location a user is not holding the device and the device is further not exposed to ambient light the device might determine that the device has been placed in a hag or other compartment that is likely inaccessible to the user and thus might turn off or disable additional features that might otherwise have been available. In some embodiments a user must either be looking at the device holding the device or have the device out in the light in order to activate certain functionality of the device. In other embodiments the device may include a display element that can operate in different modes such as reflective for bright situations and emissive for dark situations . Based on the detected light the device may change modes.

As discussed different approaches can be implemented in various environments in accordance with the described embodiments. For example illustrates an example of an environment for implementing aspects in accordance with various embodiments. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The system includes one or more electronic client devices such as those illustrated in which can include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network and convey information back to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art 

The illustrative environment includes at least an application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device and handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing content e.g. production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store is also shown to include a mechanism for storing log or session data . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information can then be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the devices . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments can be further implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers or computing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system can also include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices can also include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s may also be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch sensitive display element or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices can also include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

