---

title: Billing varied service based on tier
abstract: A mobile communication device that monitors and reports consumption of multi-tiered communication services is disclosed. The mobile communication device comprises a radio frequency transceiver, a processor, a memory, and an application stored in the memory. The application, when executed by the processor in a trusted security zone, wherein the trusted security zone provides hardware assisted trust; monitors a tier of communication service consumption, wherein a tier of communication service is associated to at least one of the amount of data, the data throughput, the latency, or the jitter; creates logs of communication service consumption differentiated by tier, and transmits a message containing the logs of the communication service consumption to a billing data store in a network of a service provider associated with the mobile communication device, whereby a bill is created by a billing server accessing the billing data store.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191522&OS=09191522&RS=09191522
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09191522
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131108
---
A communication application may include one of a voice call email text messages multi media messages network applications streaming video etc. These applications may be affected by jitter latency and or data throughput. Jitter refers to the variability in the rate of delivery or the arrival time of delivery of communication content. Latency refers to the delay in delivery of communication content. Data throughput refers to a rate of flow of communication content. The amount of jitter latency and or data throughput for a communication application may depend on the level of communication service and or a quality of service QoS that a service provider offers to a subscriber.

In an embodiment a mobile communication device is disclosed. The mobile communication device comprises a radio frequency transceiver to communicatively couple the mobile communication device to a radio access network by a wireless communication link a processor a memory and an application stored in the memory. The application when executed by the processor in a trusted security zone wherein the trusted security zone provides hardware assisted trust monitors a tier of communication service consumption wherein a tier of communication service is associated to at least one of the amount of data the data throughput the latency or the jitter allowed for a communication service creates logs of communication service consumption differentiated by tier wherein there are multiple tiers of communication service described as multi tiered communication services wherein the multiple tiers represent different rates of media data videos games etc. data throughput latency and or jitter that are allotted to the subscriber of the communication service based on how much the subscriber pays and transmits a message containing the logs of the communication service consumption to a billing data store in a network of a service provider associated with the mobile communication device whereby a bill is created by a billing server accessing the billing data store

In an embodiment a method of monitoring and reporting consumption of multi tiered communication services by a mobile communication device is disclosed. The method comprises monitoring consumption of a tier of communication services by an application stored in a memory that executes in a trusted security zone of the mobile communication device wherein the trusted security zone provides hardware assisted trust wherein a tier of communication service is associated to at least one of the amount of data the data throughput the latency or the jitter allowed for a communication service. The method further comprises creating logs that differentiate between the tiers of communication service that are used by the mobile communication device wherein there are multiple tiers of communication service described as multi tiered communication services wherein the multiple tiers represent different rates of media data videos games etc. data throughput latency and or jitter that are allotted to the subscriber of the communication service based on how much the subscriber pays. The method further comprises transmitting a message containing the recorded logs of the application to a billing data store that operates in a network of a service provider associated with the mobile communication device via a trusted end to end communication infrastructure whereby in response to receiving this message the service provider bills a subscriber for multi tiered communication services.

In an embodiment a method of reporting and billing for consumption of premium tier communication services by a mobile communication device is disclosed. The method comprises monitoring usage of a tier of communication services by an application stored in a memory that executes in a trusted security zone wherein the trusted security zone provides hardware assisted trust wherein a tier of communication service is associated to at least one of the amount of data the data throughput the latency or the jitter allowed for a communication service. The method further comprises creating logs that record and differentiate between standard and premium tiers of communication services that are consumed by the mobile communication device wherein there are multiple tiers of communication service described as multi tiered communication services wherein the multiple tiers represent different rates of media data videos games etc. data throughput latency and or jitter that are allotted to the subscriber of the communication service based on how much the subscriber pays. The method further comprises transmitting a daily message containing the recorded logs of the application to a billing data store that operates in a network of the service provider associated with the mobile communication device of a subscriber via a trusted end to end communication infrastructure whereby in response to receiving this message the service provider bills the subscriber.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

The present disclosure teaches a system and methods that promote monitoring and trusted reporting consumption of multi tiered communication services by a mobile communication device wherein a tier of communication service is associated with the level of media data videos games etc. the data throughput latency the latency and or the jitter allowed for a communication service. Different tiers of communication services may be billed to a subscriber at different rates. In an embodiment multi tiered communication services are associated with different levels of media data videos games etc. and or different allowable amounts of data data throughput latency or jitter. In an embodiment there may be three tiers of communication service from which a subscriber may choose from. In an embodiment there may be a standard tier of basic communication service that the communication service gives to all subscribers at a base level. In an embodiment there may be premium tiers of communication service that are offered by the communication service which go a step further in offering higher data throughput lower latency or lower jitter than offered by both the standard tier of communication service and the intermediate tier of communication service. In an embodiment an application in the mobile communication device monitors tiers of communication service consumption by a subscriber. The application operates in a trusted security zone to prevent fraud wherein the trusted security zone provides hardware assisted trust. The trusted security zone further prevents other software from executing at the same time and possibly corrupting the reporting of multi tiered communication service consumption. The application creates logs of the communication services consumed and differentiates between the consumption by tier. Said in other words the logs identify a tier of communication service consumed an amount of the service consumed an identity of the mobile communication device and or the subscriber and possibly other data. In some contexts different tiers of communication service may also be referred to as different qualities of service QoS or different levels of service. The logs are stored in a trusted security zone portion of memory of the mobile communication device only allowing trusted applications that execute in the trusted security zone to access them. The trusted security zone and the trusted execution environment TEE are discussed in more detail hereinafter. The application then sends a message containing the recorded logs to a billing data store. A billing server accesses the billing data store analyzes the recorded logs in the billing data store and bills the subscriber according to the consumption of communication services.

In an embodiment the application monitors consumption of communication services and differentiates that consumption according to the tiers of communication service that are consumed wherein there is a standard tier and one or more premium tiers. In an embodiment a standard tier of communication service may provide normal data throughput latency and jitter. In an embodiment the premium tier s communication service may provide higher data throughput lower latency and or lower jitter. The application creates logs of the consumed communication services and differentiates them by the tiers that are consumed. The application then periodically transmits a message that contains the recorded logs to the billing data store. When the mobile communication device sends logs while roaming in another wireless service provider s wireless coverage the application may transmit the message containing the logs via a trusted end to end communication infrastructure while the message is transiting the roaming wireless network and before entering the home service provider network wherein the trusted end to end communication infrastructure ensures that the information in the logs contained in the message is not tampered with in the roaming wireless network. In an embodiment the application sends a daily message containing the logs of the premium tier communication service consumption to the billing data store.

The application allows for subscribers to access or use premium tier communication services while recording the consumption of premium tier communication services separate from standard tier communication service. Since the application is monitoring consumption of media data network based call detail records CDR s do not fill the same utilization as the logs gathered from the monitoring application as CDR s are in reference to data associated with voice calls. This allows for simplified billing as the bill for premium communication service consumption may be appended to the bill that has standard communication service consumption. The application because it executes in the trusted security zone assures the service provider that the records that it receives from the application in the billing data store have not been tampered with.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. For more details on establishing trusted end to end communication links relying on hardware assisted security see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile communication device so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile communication device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a mobile communication device . The mobile communication device may comprise a radio transceiver to communicatively couple the mobile communication device to a radio access network by a wireless communication link a processor and a memory . The mobile communication device may further comprise an application within the memory that promotes monitoring and reporting consumption of multi tiered communication services by the mobile communication device . In an embodiment the mobile communication device may further comprise a trusted security zone . The trusted security zone provides hardware assisted trust. In an embodiment the application executes in the trusted security zone . The application stores logs in a portion of the memory that lies within the trusted security zone . The dashed box representing the trusted security zone in is shown partially overlapping part of the processor as well as part of the memory . This overlapping is meant to convey both that the trusted security zone does not completely occupy either the processor or the memory but also that the trusted security zone is embodied at least in part in some portion of the memory and in some portion of the processor . For example the application and logs may be stored in the trusted security zone portion of the memory and the application may be executed by the trusted security zone portion of the processor . In an embodiment the trusted security zone may store and execute other trusted applications and store other items in trusted memory that are not shown in . In an embodiment the mobile communication device is one of a mobile phone a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a personal digital assistant or a media player. In an embodiment the mobile communication device may be implemented as a handset. Details of handsets are discussed further hereinafter.

The system may further comprise a base transceiver station BTS and a network . The network may be communicatively coupled to a billing data store and a billing server . In an embodiment the base transceiver station may provide a wireless communication link to the mobile communication device and communicatively couple it to the network . In an embodiment the base transceiver station may provide a wireless communication link to the mobile communication device according to one of a code division multiple access CDMA wireless protocol a global system for mobile communications GSM wireless protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless protocol or another well known wireless communication protocol. While one mobile communication device and one base transceiver station are illustrated in it is known that the system may comprise any number of mobile communication devices and any number of base transceiver stations . The network may be a public communication network a private communication network or a combination thereof. In an embodiment the billing data store may receive messages from the mobile communication device which contain information regarding the mobile communication device s consumption of communication services differentiated by tier for example logs . In an embodiment the billing server may analyze the messages sent from the mobile communication device to the billing data store and may bill a subscriber accordingly. In an embodiment the purchases of premium tier communication services may still be completed by the subscriber without using the application and using the network but the purchases are inherently less secure because the trusted security zone is excluded from the process and the recording done by the network is subject to tampering.

In an embodiment the application is executed by the processor in the trusted security zone and monitors the tier of communication service that is accessed by the mobile communication device . In an embodiment the trusted security zone provides hardware assisted trust. The application creates a log of consumption of communication services differentiated by tier. In an embodiment the log may be a usage record a call detail record or another form of record.

In an embodiment there may be multiple tiers of communication service which the mobile communication device consumes. The tiers of communication service may comprise a standard tier an intermediate tier or a premium tier of communication service. In an embodiment the standard tier of communication service is the normal tier of communication service that is offered by the service provider of the mobile communication device . In an embodiment the mobile communication device may be subscribed to the standard tier of communication service but is able to access the intermediate tier and premium tier of communication service by paying extra and or appending the amount to a monthly account bill. In an embodiment there may be several levels of premium tier communication service. In an embodiment the intermediate tier of communication service and premium tier s of communication service may provide at least one of a higher data throughput lower latency or lower jitter than offered by the standard tier of communication service. In an embodiment the application may create logs for intermediate tier communication service consumption and for premium tier communication service consumption and may not create logs for standard tier communication service consumption.

The application may transmit a message containing the logs of consumed communication services of the mobile communication device to the billing data store that is communicatively coupled to the network . The billing server may analyze the message received by the billing data store and may bill the subscriber according to the consumption of communication services by the mobile communication device . In an embodiment the message containing the recorded logs of the application is transmitted to the billing data store at least in part via a trusted end to end communication infrastructure. In an embodiment the daily message sent to the billing data store from the application of the mobile communication device contains records of consumption of premium communication services and does not contain records of consumption of standard communication services. In an embodiment the message sent from the application to the billing data store may be sent periodically. In an embodiment the message may be sent to the billing data store every time communication services are used every day every week every month or every two months

In an embodiment the application may pre analyze and send a summary report of premium tier communication service consumption to the billing data store . For example the application may analyze the logs and generate a summary that comprises a total consumption of a first tier of service a total consumption of a second tier of communication service and a total consumption of a third tier of communication service over a unit of time and send this summary or rolled up report to the billing data store .

The billing server may periodically analyze the logs received by the billing data store in order to bill the subscriber. In an embodiment the trusted end to end communication infrastructure assures that the message sent from the application to the billing data store remains in the trusted security zone during each step on its way through a foreign service provider network until it enters the network wherein the foreign service provider network is any network that is different from the network which is operated by the service provider to which the mobile communication device is subscribed.

In a method is described. At block an application that executes in a trusted security zone of a mobile communication device monitors consumption of communication services by the mobile communication device. The trusted security zone provides hardware assisted trust to prevent fraud. At block the application creates logs that differentiate between tiers of communication services that are consumed by the mobile communication device wherein there are multiple tiers of communication service that the mobile communication device may consume. At block the application transmits a message containing the recorded logs of the application to a billing data store that operates in a network of a service provider that is associated with the mobile communication device whereby in response to receiving this message the service provider bills a subscriber for multi tiered communication services.

In a method is described. At block an application that executes in a trusted security zone of a mobile communication device monitors consumption of communication services by the mobile communication device. At block the application creates logs that record and differentiate between standard and premium tiers of communication service that are consumed by the mobile communication device. At block the application transmits a daily message containing the recorded logs of the application to a billing data store that operates in a core network of a service provider associated with the mobile communication device whereby in response to receiving this message the service provider bills the subscriber.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

