---

title: IAP antagonists
abstract: There are disclosed compounds that modulate the activity of inhibitors of apoptosis (IAPs), pharmaceutical compositions containing said compounds and methods of treating proliferative disorders and disorders of dysregulated apoptosis, such as cancer, utilizing the compounds of the invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08889712&OS=08889712&RS=08889712
owner: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
number: 08889712
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130619
---
This application claims benefit of 61 661 460 filed Jun. 19 2012 and claims benefit of 61 787 808 filed Mar. 15 2013.

The invention relates generally to compounds that modulate the activity of inhibitors of apoptosis IAPs pharmaceutical compositions containing said compounds and methods of treating proliferative disorders and disorders of dysregulated apoptosis such as cancer utilizing the compounds of the invention.

Apoptosis or programmed cell death is a genetically and biochemically regulated mechanism that plays an important role in development and homeostasis in invertebrates as well as vertebrates.

Aberrancies in apoptosis that lead to premature cell death have been linked to a variety of developmental disorders. Deficiencies in apoptosis that result in the lack of cell death have been linked to cancer and chronic viral infections.

Caspases are cysteine containing aspartate specific proteases that play a key role in effecting apoptosis. Once activated from their inactive zymogen form by proteolytic processing caspases digest vital cell proteins from within the cell. Since caspases are such strong proteases tight control of this family of proteins is necessary to prevent premature cell death. In addition to proteolytic processing caspases are also regulated by a family of molecules known as Inhibitors of Apoptosis Proteins TAP . IAPs are naturally occurring intra cellular proteins that suppress caspase dependent apoptosis. SMAC an intracellular protein also known as DIABLO functions to modulate the activity of IAPs. In normal healthy cells SMAC and IAPs function together to maintain healthy cells. However in certain disease states e.g. cancers and other proliferative disorders the activities of IAPs are not adequately modulated and therefore prevent apoptosis and cause or exacerbate abnormal proliferation and survival.

IAP antagonists also known as SMAC mimetics are synthetic molecules that mimic the structure and IAP modulating activity of the four N terminal amino acids of SMAC AVPI . When administered to a subject suffering proliferative disorders the compounds antagonize IAP activities causing an increase in apoptosis among abnormally proliferating cells.

IAPs are found in all organisms ranging from to human and are known to be overexpressed in many human cancers. IAPs comprise one to three Baculovirus IAP repeat BIR domains. The BIR domain is a zinc binding domain of about 70 residues comprising 4 alpha helices and 3 beta strands with cysteine and histidine residues that coordinate the zinc ion. The BIR 2 and 3 domains contain a conserved inhibitor of apoptosis binding motif IBM capable of binding caspases and inhibiting their proteolytic activity.

As an example human X chromosome linked IAP XIAP inhibits the executioner caspases 3 and 7 as well as the Apaf 1 cytochrome C mediated activation of the initiator caspase 9. Caspases 3 and 7 are inhibited by the BIR2 domain of XIAP while the BIR3 domain of XIAP is responsible for the inhibition of caspase 9 activation. XIAP is expressed ubiquitously in most adult and fetal tissues. Overexpression of XIAP in tumor cells has been demonstrated to confer protection of the tumor cells against a variety of pro apoptotic stimuli and promotes resistance to chemotherapy. Consistent with this a strong correlation between XIAP protein levels and survival has been demonstrated for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia.

Other BIR2 3 containing IAP family members while capable of binding caspases do not directly inhibit their proteolytic activity. Rather they inhibit apoptosis by affecting signaling activities of key proteins in cell survival pathways. Like XIAP these IAPs possess a carboxyl terminal RING finger domain capable of conjugating ubiquitin to specific protein substrates. As an example cellular IAPs 1 and 2 cIAP1 2 ubiquitinate RIPK a signaling intermediate of tumor necrosis death receptor TNF DR activation. Ubiquitinated RIPK is unable to activate caspase 8 in the context of DR activation by TNF family DR ligands. On the contrary the long ubiquitin chains attached to RIPK provide a scaffold by which cell components of the NF B cell survival signaling cascade can attach and become activated.

In normal cells undergoing apoptosis the IAP mediated inhibition is removed by the mitochondrial protein SMAC second mitochondrial activator of caspases also known as DIABLO . SMAC is synthesized as a precursor molecule of 239 amino acids the N terminal 55 residues serving as the mitochondria targeting sequence that is removed after import. The mature form of SMAC resides in the inter membrane space of mitochondria. At the time of apoptosis induction SMAC is released from mitochondria into the cytosol where together with cytochrome c it binds to XIAP and eliminates its inhibitory effect on caspases. SMAC also binds cIAP 1 2 and inhibits their ability to ubiquinate RIPK. SMAC interacts with essentially all IAPs that have been examined to date and thus appears to be a master regulator of apoptosis in mammals.

Down regulation of XIAP expression by antisense oligonucleotides has been shown to sensitize tumor cells to death induced by a wide range of pro apoptotic agents both in vitro and in vivo. SMAC DIABLO derived peptides have also been demonstrated to sensitize a number of different tumor induced select cell lines to undergo apoptosis as single agents while other cell lines require an additional stimulus such as DR agonists or co treatment with pro apoptotic drugs. Because IAP inhibition appears to be a viable mechanism for promoting apoptosis and treating diseases and conditions that are sensitive to apoptosis there is a continuing need to develop compounds that can inhibit IAP.

The present invention provides compounds methods of modulating the activity of IAP and methods for treating various medical conditions using such compounds.

The present invention also provides processes and intermediates for making the compounds of the present invention or stereoisomers tautomers or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and one or more of the compounds of the present invention or stereoisomers tautomers or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

The compounds of the invention may be used in the treatment and or prophylaxis of multiple diseases or disorders associated with IAP inhibition such as cancer and other maladies.

The compounds of the invention may be used for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment and or prophylaxis of multiple diseases or disorders associated with IAP inhibition.

The compounds of the invention can be used alone in combination with other compounds of the present invention or in combination with one or more other agent s .

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description and claims.

Ris optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted thioalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted arylalkyl or optionally substituted aryl 

Rand Rare independently optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted arylalkyl optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl or optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl 

Ris optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl or optionally substituted arylalkyl 

Ris alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocyclyl or phenylalkyl wherein the phenyl group is substituted with one or more alkyl or halogen groups 

Rand Rare independently optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted arylalkyl 

In another aspect the invention provides a compound of Formula I within the scope of the first second or third aspect wherein 

Ris alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl tetrahydropyran or phenylalkyl wherein the phenyl group is substituted with one or more fluoro groups 

Ris 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalenyl or optionally substituted arylalkyl wherein said aryl group of the arylalkyl is substituted with alkyl or halogen 

Ris optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl or optionally substituted arylalkyl 

Rand Rare independently optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted arylalkyl 

Ris optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl or optionally substituted arylalkyl 

Rand Rare independently optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted arylalkyl 

Ris optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted thioalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl or optionally substituted arylalkyl 

Ris optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl or optionally substituted arylalkyl 

Rand Rare independently optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted arylalkyl 

In another aspect the invention provides a compound selected from the exemplified examples within the scope of the first aspect or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt tautomer or stereoisomer thereof.

In another aspect the invention provides a compound selected from any subset list of compounds within the scope of any of the above aspects.

In another embodiment Ris alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocyclyl or phenylalkyl wherein the phenyl group is substituted with one or more alkyl or halogen groups.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising one or more compounds of the present invention or a stereoisomer a tautomer a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or a solvate thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and at least one of the compounds of the present invention or a stereoisomer a tautomer a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or a solvate thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of the compounds of the present invention or a stereoisomer a tautomer a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or a solvate thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a process for making a compound of the present invention or a stereoisomer a tautomer a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or a solvate thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides an intermediate for making a compound of the present invention or a stereoisomer a tautomer a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or a solvate thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for the treatment and or prophylaxis of various types of cancer comprising administering to a patient in need of such treatment and or prophylaxis a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compounds of the present invention alone or optionally in combination with another compound of the present invention and or at least one other type of therapeutic agent.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a compound of the present invention for use in therapy.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a combined preparation of a compound of the present invention and additional therapeutic agent s for simultaneous separate or sequential use in therapy.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a combined preparation of a compound of the present invention and additional therapeutic agent s for simultaneous separate or sequential use in the treatment and or prophylaxis of multiple diseases or disorders associated with the inhibition of apoptosis.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of treating a patient suffering from or susceptible to a medical condition that is sensitive to apoptosis. A number of medical conditions can be treated. The method comprises administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising a compound described herein. For example the compounds described herein may be used to treat or prevent infections proliferative diseases e.g. cancer and autoimmune diseases.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting the activity of an IAP in a cell thus promoting apoptosis. The method comprises exposing the cell to a compound described herein.

The compounds and pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are useful in treating or preventing any disease or conditions that are sensitive to apoptosis. These include infections e.g. skin infections GI infection urinary tract infections genito urinary infections systemic infections proliferative diseases e.g. cancer and autoimmune diseases e.g. rheumatoid arthritis lupus . The compounds and pharmaceutical compositions may be administered to animals preferably mammals e.g. domesticated animals cats dogs mice rats and more preferably humans. Any method of administration may be used to deliver the compound or pharmaceutical composition to the animal. In certain embodiments the compound or pharmaceutical composition is administered orally. In other embodiments the compound or pharmaceutical composition is administered parenterally.

In one embodiment the compounds of this invention can be used for the treatment of any cancer type that fails to undergo apoptosis in a patient. This includes but is not limited to solid tumors including but not limited to carcinomas sarcomas including Kaposi s sarcoma erythroblastoma glioblastoma meningioma astrocytoma melanoma and myoblastoma. Treatment or prevention of non solid tumor cancers such as leukemia is also contemplated by this invention.

Types of cancers that may be treated with the compounds of this invention include but are not limited to brain cancers skin cancers bladder cancers ovarian cancers breast cancers gastric cancers pancreatic cancers prostate cancers colon cancers blood cancers lung cancers and bone cancers. Examples of such cancer types include neuroblastoma intestine carcinoma such as rectum carcinoma colon carcinoma familiar adenomatous polyposis carcinoma and hereditary non polyposis colorectal cancer esophageal carcinoma labial carcinoma larynx carcinoma hypopharynx carcinoma tong carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma gastric carcinoma adenocarcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma papillary thyroid carcinoma renal carcinoma kidney parenchymal carcinoma ovarian carcinoma cervix carcinoma uterine corpus carcinoma endometrium carcinoma chorion carcinoma pancreatic carcinoma prostate carcinoma testis carcinoma breast carcinoma urinary carcinoma melanoma brain tumors such as glioblastoma astrocytoma meningioma medulloblastoma and peripheral neuroectodermal tumors Hodgkin lymphoma non Hodgkin lymphoma Burkitt lymphoma acute lymphatic leukemia ALL chronic lymphatic leukemia CLL acute myeloid leukemia AML chronic myeloid leukemia CML adult T cell leukemia lymphoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma DLBCL hepatocellular carcinoma gall bladder carcinoma bronchial carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma multiple myeloma basalioma teratoma retinoblastoma choroid melanoma seminoma rhabdomyosarcoma craniopharyngioma osteosarcoma chondrosarcoma myosarcoma liposarcoma fibrosarcoma Ewing sarcoma and plasmocytoma.

In addition to apoptosis defects found in tumors defects in the ability to eliminate self reactive cells of the immune system due to apoptosis resistance are considered to play a key role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. Autoimmune diseases are characterized in that the cells of the immune system produce antibodies against its own organs and molecules or directly attack tissues resulting in the destruction of the latter. A failure of those self reactive cells to undergo apoptosis leads to the manifestation of the disease. Defects in apoptosis regulation have been identified in autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus or rheumatoid arthritis.

Thus according to another embodiment the invention provides a method of treating an autoimmune disease by providing to a patient in need thereof a compound or composition of the present invention. Examples of such autoimmune diseases include but are not limited to collagen diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus. Sharp s syndrome CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s syndrome esophageal dysmotility telangiectasia dermatomyositis vasculitis Morbus Wegener s and Sj gren s syndrome renal diseases such as Goodpasture s syndrome rapidly progressing glomerulonephritis and membrano proliferative glomerulonephritis type II endocrine diseases such as type I diabetes autoimmune polyendocrinopathy candidiasis ectodermal dystrophy APECED autoimmune parathyroidism pernicious anemia gonad insufficiency idiopathic Morbus Addison s hyperthyreosis Hashimoto s thyroiditis and primary myxedema skin diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris bullous pemphigoid herpes gestationis epidermolysis bullosa and erythema multiforme major liver diseases such as primary biliary cirrhosis autoimmune cholangitis autoimmune hepatitis type 1 autoimmune hepatitis type 2 primary sclerosing cholangitis neuronal diseases such as multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis myasthenic Lambert Eaton syndrome acquired neuromyotomy Guillain Barre syndrome Muller Fischer syndrome stiff man syndrome cerebellar degeneration ataxia opsoclonus sensoric neuropathy and achalasia blood diseases such as autoimmune hemolytic anemia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura Morbus Werlhof infectious diseases with associated autoimmune reactions such as AIDS Malaria and Chagas disease.

Compounds of the invention are useful for sensitizing cells to apoptotic signals. Thus in one embodiment the compounds of the invention are co administered with radiation therapy or a second therapeutic agent with cytostatic or antineoplastic activity. Suitable cytostatic chemotherapy compounds include but are not limited to i antimetabolites ii DNA fragmenting agents iii DNA crosslinking agents iv intercalating agents v protein synthesis inhibitors vi topoisomerase I poisons such as camptothecin or topotecan vii topoisomerase II poisons viii microtubule directed agents ix kinase inhibitors x miscellaneous investigational agents xi hormones and xii hormone antagonists. It is contemplated that compounds of the invention may be useful in combination with any known agents falling into the above 12 classes as well as any future agents that are currently in development. In particular it is contemplated that compounds of the invention may be useful in combination with current Standards of Care as well as any that evolve over the foreseeable future. Specific dosages and dosing regimens would be based on physicians evolving knowledge and the general skill in the art.

The combination therapy is intended to embrace administration of these therapeutic agents in a sequential manner that is wherein each therapeutic agent is administered at a different time as well as administration of these therapeutic agents or at least two of the therapeutic agents in a substantially simultaneous manner. Substantially simultaneous administration can be accomplished for example by administering to the subject a single dosage form having a fixed ratio of each therapeutic agent or in multiple single dosage forms for each of the therapeutic agents. Sequential or substantially simultaneous administration of each therapeutic agent can be effected by any appropriate route including but not limited to oral routes intravenous routes intramuscular routes and direct absorption through mucous membrane tissues. The therapeutic agents can be administered by the same route or by different routes. For example a first therapeutic agent of the combination selected may be administered by intravenous injection while the other therapeutic agents of the combination may be administered orally. Alternatively for example all therapeutic agents may be administered orally or all therapeutic agents may be administered by intravenous injection. Combination therapy also can embrace the administration of the therapeutic agents as described above in further combination with other biologically active ingredients and non drug therapies e.g. surgery or radiation treatment. Where the combination therapy further comprises a non drug treatment the non drug treatment may be conducted at any suitable time so long as a beneficial effect from the co action of the combination of the therapeutic agents and non drug treatment is achieved. For example in appropriate cases the beneficial effect is still achieved when the non drug treatment is temporally removed from the administration of the therapeutic agents perhaps by days or even weeks.

The invention also provides pharmaceutically acceptable compositions which comprise a therapeutically effective amount of one or more of the compounds of Formula I formulated together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers additives and or diluents and optionally one or more additional therapeutic agents described above. As described in detail below the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be specially formulated for administration in solid or liquid form including those adapted for the following 1 oral administration for example drenches aqueous or non aqueous solutions or suspensions tablets e.g. those targeted for buccal sublingual and systemic absorption boluses powders granules pastes for application to the tongue 2 parenteral administration for example by subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous or epidural injection as for example a sterile solution or suspension or sustained release formulation 3 topical application for example as a cream ointment or a controlled release patch or spray applied to the skin 4 intravaginally or intrarectally for example as a pessary cream or foam 5 sublingually 6 ocularly 7 transdermally or 8 nasally.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as used herein means a pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle such as a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient manufacturing aid e.g. lubricant talc magnesium calcium or zinc stearate or steric acid or solvent encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting the subject compound from one organ or portion of the body to another organ or portion of the body. Each carrier must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the patient. Some examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include 1 sugars such as lactose glucose and sucrose 2 starches such as corn starch and potato starch 3 cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate 4 powdered tragacanth 5 malt 6 gelatin 7 talc 8 excipients such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes 9 oils such as peanut oil cottonseed oil safflower oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and soybean oil 10 glycols such as propylene glycol 11 polyols such as glycerin sorbitol mannitol and polyethylene glycol 12 esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate 13 agar 14 buffering agents such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide 15 alginic acid 16 pyrogen free water 17 isotonic saline 18 Ringer s solution 19 ethyl alcohol 20 pH buffered solutions 21 polyesters polycarbonates and or polyanhydrides and 22 other non toxic compatible substances employed in pharmaceutical formulations.

Wetting agents emulsifiers and lubricants such as sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate as well as coloring agents release agents coating agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the compositions.

Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable antioxidants include 1 water soluble antioxidants such as ascorbic acid cysteine hydrochloride sodium bisulfate sodium metabisulfite sodium sulfite and the like 2 oil soluble antioxidants such as ascorbyl palmitate butylated hydroxyanisole BHA butylated hydroxytoluene BHT lecithin propyl gallate alpha tocopherol and the like and 3 metal chelating agents such as citric acid ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid EDTA sorbitol tartaric acid phosphoric acid and the like.

Formulations of the present invention include those suitable for oral nasal topical including buccal and sublingual rectal vaginal and or parenteral administration. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any methods well known in the art of pharmacy. The amount of active ingredient which can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host being treated the particular mode of administration. The amount of active ingredient which can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single dosage form will generally be that amount of the compound which produces a therapeutic effect. Generally out of one hundred percent this amount will range from about 0.1 percent to about ninety nine percent of active ingredient preferably from about 5 percent to about 70 percent most preferably from about 10 percent to about 30 percent.

In certain embodiments a formulation of the present invention comprises an excipient selected from the group consisting of cyclodextrins celluloses liposomes micelle forming agents e.g. bile acids and polymeric carriers e.g. polyesters and polyanhydrides and a compound of the present invention. In certain embodiments an aforementioned formulation renders orally bioavailable a compound of the present invention.

Methods of preparing these formulations or compositions include the step of bringing into association a compound of the present invention with the carrier and optionally one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association a compound of the present invention with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of the invention suitable for oral administration may be in the form of capsules cachets pills tablets lozenges using a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth powders granules or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non aqueous liquid or as an oil in water or water in oil liquid emulsion or as an elixir or syrup or as pastilles using an inert base such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and or as mouth washes and the like each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of the present invention as an active ingredient. A compound of the present invention may also be administered as a bolus electuary or paste.

In solid dosage forms of the invention for oral administration capsules tablets pills dragees powders granules troches and the like the active ingredient is mixed with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate and or any of the following 1 fillers or extenders such as starches lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and or silicic acid 2 binders such as for example carboxymethylcellulose alginates gelatin polyvinyl pyrrolidone sucrose and or acacia 3 humectants such as glycerol 4 disintegrating agents such as agar agar calcium carbonate potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain silicates and sodium carbonate 5 solution retarding agents such as paraffin 6 absorption accelerators such as quaternary ammonium compounds and surfactants such as poloxamer and sodium lauryl sulfate 7 wetting agents such as for example cetyl alcohol glycerol monostearate and non ionic surfactants 8 absorbents such as kaolin and bentonite clay 9 lubricants such as talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate zinc stearate sodium stearate stearic acid and mixtures thereof 10 coloring agents and 11 controlled release agents such as crospovidone or ethyl cellulose. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the pharmaceutical compositions may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard shelled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugars as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like.

A tablet may be made by compression or molding optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared using binder for example gelatin or hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose lubricant inert diluent preservative disintegrant for example sodium starch glycolate or cross linked sodium carboxymethyl cellulose surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent.

The tablets and other solid dosage forms of the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention such as dragees capsules pills and granules may optionally be scored or prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may also be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein using for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose in varying proportions to provide the desired release profile other polymer matrices liposomes and or microspheres. They may be formulated for rapid release e.g. freeze dried. They may be sterilized by for example filtration through a bacteria retaining filter or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved in sterile water or some other sterile injectable medium immediately before use. These compositions may also optionally contain opacifying agents and may be of a composition that they release the active ingredient s only or preferentially in a certain portion of the gastrointestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used include polymeric substances and waxes. The active ingredient can also be in micro encapsulated form if appropriate with one or more of the above described excipients.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration of the compounds of the invention include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions microemulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active ingredient the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as for example water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol oils in particular cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof.

Besides inert diluents the oral compositions can also include adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents sweetening flavoring coloring perfuming and preservative agents.

Suspensions in addition to the active compounds may contain suspending agents as for example ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan esters microcrystalline cellulose aluminum metahydroxide bentonite agar agar and tragacanth and mixtures thereof.

Formulations of the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention for rectal or vaginal administration may be presented as a suppository which may be prepared by mixing one or more compounds of the invention with one or more suitable nonirritating excipients or carriers comprising for example cocoa butter polyethylene glycol a suppository wax or a salicylate and which is solid at room temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore will melt in the rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active compound.

Formulations of the present invention which are suitable for vaginal administration also include pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

Dosage forms for the topical or transdermal administration of a compound of this invention include powders sprays ointments pastes creams lotions gels solutions patches and inhalants. The active compound may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and with any preservatives buffers or propellants which may be required.

The ointments pastes creams and gels may contain in addition to an active compound of this invention excipients such as animal and vegetable fats oils waxes paraffins starch tragacanth cellulose derivatives polyethylene glycols silicones bentonites silicic acid talc and zinc oxide or mixtures thereof.

Powders and sprays can contain in addition to a compound of this invention excipients such as lactose talc silicic acid aluminum hydroxide calcium silicates and polyamide powder or mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants such as chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons such as butane and propane.

Transdermal patches have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of a compound of the present invention to the body. Such dosage forms can be made by dissolving or dispersing the compound in the proper medium. Absorption enhancers can also be used to increase the flux of the compound across the skin. The rate of such flux can be controlled by either providing a rate controlling membrane or dispersing the compound in a polymer matrix or gel.

Ophthalmic formulations eye ointments powders solutions and the like are also contemplated as being within the scope of this invention.

Pharmaceutical compositions of this invention suitable for parenteral administration comprise one or more compounds of the invention in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable sterile isotonic aqueous or non aqueous solutions dispersions suspensions or emulsions or sterile powders which may be reconstituted into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior to use which may contain sugars alcohols antioxidants buffers bacteriostats solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient or suspending or thickening agents.

Examples of suitable aqueous and non aqueous carriers which may be employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention include water ethanol polyols such as glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of coating materials such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions and by the use of surfactants.

These compositions may also contain adjuvants such as preservatives wetting agents emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of microorganisms upon the subject compounds may be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example paraben chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid and the like. It may also be desirable to include isotonic agents such as sugars sodium chloride and the like into the compositions. In addition prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form may be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

In some cases in order to prolong the effect of a drug it is desirable to slow the absorption of the drug from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This may be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material having poor water solubility. The rate of absorption of the drug then depends upon its rate of dissolution which in turn may depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively delayed absorption of a parenterally administered drug form is accomplished by dissolving or suspending the drug in an oil vehicle.

Injectable depot forms are made by forming microencapsuled matrices of the subject compounds in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide polyglycolide. Depending on the ratio of drug to polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed the rate of drug release can be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable polymers include poly orthoesters and poly anhydrides . Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the drug in liposomes or microemulsions which are compatible with body tissue.

When the compounds of the present invention are administered as pharmaceuticals to humans and animals they can be given per se or as a pharmaceutical composition containing for example 0.1 to 99 more preferably 10 to 30 of active ingredient in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Regardless of the route of administration selected the compounds of the present invention which may be used in a suitable hydrated form and or the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are formulated into pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms by conventional methods known to those of skill in the art.

Actual dosage levels of the active ingredients in the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may be varied so as to obtain an amount of the active ingredient which is effective to achieve the desired therapeutic response for a particular patient composition and mode of administration without being toxic to the patient.

The selected dosage level will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the particular compound of the present invention employed or the ester salt or amide thereof the route of administration the time of administration the rate of excretion or metabolism of the particular compound being employed the rate and extent of absorption the duration of the treatment other drugs compounds and or materials used in combination with the particular compound employed the age sex weight condition general health and prior medical history of the patient being treated and like factors well known in the medical arts.

A physician or veterinarian having ordinary skill in the art can readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition required. For example the physician or veterinarian could start doses of the compounds of the invention employed in the pharmaceutical composition at levels lower than that required in order to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved.

In general a suitable daily dose of a compound of the invention will be that amount of the compound which is the lowest dose effective to produce a therapeutic effect. Such an effective dose will generally depend upon the factors described above. Generally oral intravenous intracerebroventricular and subcutaneous doses of the compounds of this invention for a patient will range from about 0.01 to about 50 mg per kilogram of body weight per day.

If desired the effective daily dose of the active compound may be administered as two three four five six or more sub doses administered separately at appropriate intervals throughout the day optionally in unit dosage forms. In certain aspects of the invention dosing is one administration per day.

While it is possible for a compound of the present invention to be administered alone it is preferable to administer the compound as a pharmaceutical formulation composition .

Throughout the specification and the appended claims a given chemical formula or name shall encompass all stereo and optical isomers and racemates thereof where such isomers exist. Unless otherwise indicated all chiral enantiomeric and diastereomeric and racemic forms are within the scope of the invention. Many geometric isomers of C C double bonds C N double bonds ring systems and the like can also be present in the compounds and all such stable isomers are contemplated in the present invention. Cis and trans or E and Z geometric isomers of the compounds of the present invention are described and may be isolated as a mixture of isomers or as separated isomeric forms. The present compounds can be isolated in optically active or racemic forms. Optically active forms may be prepared by resolution of racemic forms or by synthesis from optically active starting materials. All processes used to prepare compounds of the present invention and intermediates made therein are considered to be part of the present invention. When enantiomeric or diastereomeric products are prepared they may be separated by conventional methods for example by chromatography or fractional crystallization. Depending on the process conditions the end products of the present invention are obtained either in free neutral or salt form. Both the free form and the salts of these end products are within the scope of the invention. If so desired one form of a compound may be converted into another form. A free base or acid may be converted into a salt a salt may be converted into the free compound or another salt a mixture of isomeric compounds of the present invention may be separated into the individual isomers. Compounds of the present invention free form and salts thereof may exist in multiple tautomeric forms in which hydrogen atoms are transposed to other parts of the molecules and the chemical bonds between the atoms of the molecules are consequently rearranged. It should be understood that all tautomeric forms insofar as they may exist are included within the invention.

When a substituent is noted as optionally substituted the substituents are selected from for example substituents such as halo hydroxy alkoxy oxo alkanoyl aryloxy alkanoyloxy amino alkylamino arylamino arylalkylamino disubstituted amines in which the 2 amino substituents are selected from alkyl aryl or arylalkyl alkanoylamino aroylamino aralkanoylamino substituted alkanoylamino substituted arylamino substituted aralkanoylamino thiol alkylthio arylthio arylalkylthio alkylthiono arylthiono arylalkylthiono alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl arylalkylsulfonyl sulfonamido e.g. SONH substituted sulfonamido nitro cyano carboxy carbamyl e.g. CONH substituted carbamyl e.g. CONHalkyl CONHaryl CONHarylalkyl or cases where there are two substituents on the nitrogen selected from alkyl aryl or arylalkyl alkoxycarbonyl aryl substituted aryl guanidino heterocyclyl e.g. indolyl imidazolyl furyl thienyl thiazolyl pyrrolidyl pyridyl pyrimidyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl and the like and substituted heterocyclyl.

As used herein the term alkyl or alkylene is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms. For example C Calkyl denotes alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Example alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me ethyl Et propyl e.g. n propyl and isopropyl butyl e.g. n butyl isobutyl t butyl and pentyl e.g. n pentyl isopentyl neopentyl .

The term alkoxy or alkyloxy refers to an O alkyl group. Calkoxy or alkyloxy is intended to include C C C C C and Calkoxy groups. Example alkoxy groups include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy e.g. n propoxy and isopropoxy and t butoxy. Similarly alkylthio or thioalkoxy represents an alkyl group as defined above with the indicated number of carbon atoms attached through a sulphur bridge for example methyl S and ethyl S .

The term aryl either alone or in combination with another radical means a carbocyclic aromatic monocyclic group containing 6 carbon atoms which may be further fused to a second 5 or 6 membered carbocyclic group which may be aromatic saturated or unsaturated. Aryl includes but is not limited to phenyl indanyl 1 naphthyl 2 naphthyl and terahydronaphthyl. The fused aryls may be connected to another group either at a suitable position on the cycloalkyl ring or the aromatic ring. For example 

Arrowed lines drawn from the ring system indicate that the bond may be attached to any of the suitable ring atoms.

The term cycloalkyl refers to cyclized alkyl groups. Ccycloalkyl is intended to include C C C C C Cand Ccycloalkyl groups. Example cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl norbornyl and adamantyl. Branched cycloalkyl groups such as 1 methylcyclopropyl and 2 methylcyclopropyl are included in the definition of cycloalkyl . The term cycloalkenyl refers to cyclized alkenyl groups. Ccycloalkenyl is intended to include C C and Ccycloalkenyl groups. Example cycloalkenyl groups include but are not limited to cyclobutenyl cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl.

As used herein carbocycle carbocyclyl or carbocyclic residue is intended to mean any stable 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 membered monocyclic or bicyclic or 7 8 9 10 11 12 or 13 membered bicyclic or tricyclic hydrocarbon ring any of which may be saturated partially unsaturated unsaturated or aromatic. Examples of such carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclobutenyl cyclopentyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexyl cycloheptenyl cycloheptyl cycloheptenyl adamantyl cyclooctyl cyclooctenyl cyclooctadienyl 3.3.0 bicyclooctane 4.3.0 bicyclononane 4.4.0 bicyclodecane decalin 2.2.2 bicyclooctane fluorenyl phenyl naphthyl indanyl adamantyl anthracenyl and tetrahydronaphthyl tetralin . As shown above bridged rings are also included in the definition of carbocycle e.g. 2.2.2 bicyclooctane . Preferred carbocycles unless otherwise specified are cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl phenyl and indanyl. When the term carbocyclyl is used it is intended to include aryl . A bridged ring occurs when one or more carbon atoms link two non adjacent carbon atoms. Preferred bridges are one or two carbon atoms. It is noted that a bridge always converts a monocyclic ring into a tricyclic ring. When a ring is bridged the substituents recited for the ring may also be present on the bridge.

As used herein the term bicyclic carbocyclyl or bicyclic carbocyclic group is intended to mean a stable 9 or 10 membered carbocyclic ring system that contains two fused rings and consists of carbon atoms. Of the two fused rings one ring is a benzo ring fused to a second ring and the second ring is a 5 or 6 membered carbon ring which is saturated partially unsaturated or unsaturated. The bicyclic carbocyclic group may be attached to its pendant group at any carbon atom which results in a stable structure. The bicyclic carbocyclic group described herein may be substituted on any carbon if the resulting compound is stable. Examples of a bicyclic carbocyclic group are but not limited to naphthyl 1 2 dihydronaphthyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and indanyl.

 Halo or halogen includes fluoro chloro bromo and iodo. Haloalkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms substituted with 1 or more halogens. Examples of haloalkyl include but are not limited to fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl trichloromethyl pentafluoroethyl pentachloroethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl heptafluoropropyl and heptachloropropyl. Examples of haloalkyl also include fluoroalkyl that is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms substituted with 1 or more fluorine atoms.

 Haloalkoxy or haloalkyloxy represents a haloalkyl group as defined above with the indicated number of carbon atoms attached through an oxygen bridge. For example Chaloalkoxy is intended to include C C C C C and Chaloalkoxy groups. Examples of haloalkoxy include but are not limited to trifluoromethoxy 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy and pentafluorothoxy. Similarly haloalkylthio or thiohaloalkoxy represents a haloalkyl group as defined above with the indicated number of carbon atoms attached through a sulphur bridge for example trifluoromethyl S and pentafluoroethyl S .

As used herein the term heterocycle heterocyclyl or heterocyclic ring is intended to mean a stable 3 4 5 6 or 7 membered monocyclic or bicyclic or 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 or 14 membered polycyclic heterocyclic ring that is saturated partially unsaturated or fully unsaturated and that contains carbon atoms and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of N O and S and including any polycyclic group in which any of the above defined heterocyclic rings is fused to a benzene ring. The nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized i.e. N O and S O wherein p is 0 1 or 2 . The nitrogen atom may be substituted or unsubstituted i.e. N or NR wherein R is H or another substituent if defined . The heterocyclic ring may be attached to its pendant group at any heteroatom or carbon atom that results in a stable structure. The heterocyclic rings described herein may be substituted on carbon or on a nitrogen atom if the resulting compound is stable. A nitrogen in the heterocycle may optionally be quaternized. It is preferred that when the total number of S and O atoms in the heterocycle exceeds 1 then these heteroatoms are not adjacent to one another. It is preferred that the total number of S and O atoms in the heterocycle is not more than 1. When the term heterocycle is used it is intended to include heteroaryl.

Examples of heterocycles include but are not limited to acridinyl azetidinyl azocinyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzothiofuranyl benzothiophenyl benzoxazolyl benzoxazolinyl benzthiazolyl benztriazolyl benztetrazolyl benzisoxazolyl benzisothiazolyl benzimidazolinyl carbazolyl 4aH carbazolyl carbolinyl chromanyl chromenyl cinnolinyl decahydroquinolinyl 2H 6H 1 5 2 dithiazinyl dihydrofuro 2 3 b tetrahydrofuran furanyl furazanyl imidazolidinyl imidazolinyl imidazolyl 1H indazolyl imidazolopyridinyl indolenyl indolinyl indolizinyl indolyl 3H indolyl isatinoyl isobenzofuranyl isochromanyl isoindazolyl isoindolinyl isoindolyl isoquinolinyl isothiazolyl isothiazolopyridinyl isoxazolyl isoxazolopyridinyl methylenedioxyphenyl morpholinyl naphthyridinyl octahydroisoquinolinyl oxadiazolyl 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl oxazolidinyl oxazolyl oxazolopyridinyl oxazolidinylperimidinyl oxindolyl pyrimidinyl phenanthridinyl phenanthrolinyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxathiinyl phenoxazinyl phthalazinyl piperazinyl piperidinyl piperidonyl 4 piperidonyl piperonyl pteridinyl purinyl pyranyl pyrazinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolopyridinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridooxazolyl pyridoimidazolyl pyridothiazolyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrrolidinyl pyrrolinyl 2 pyrrolidonyl 2H pyrrolyl pyrrolyl quinazolinyl quinolinyl 4H quinolizinyl quinoxalinyl quinuclidinyl tetrazolyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl 6H 1 2 5 thiadiazinyl 1 2 3 thiadiazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl 1 2 5 thiadiazolyl 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl thianthrenyl thiazolyl thienyl thiazolopyridinyl thienothiazolyl thienooxazolyl thienoimidazolyl thiophenyl triazinyl 1 2 3 triazolyl 1 2 4 triazolyl 1 2 5 triazolyl 1 3 4 triazolyl and xanthenyl. Also included are fused ring and spiro compounds containing for example the above heterocycles.

Examples of 5 to 10 membered heterocycles include but are not limited to pyridinyl furanyl thienyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl pyrazinyl piperazinyl piperidinyl imidazolyl imidazolidinyl indolyl tetrazolyl isoxazolyl morpholinyl oxazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiadiazinyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl triazinyl triazolyl benzimidazolyl 1H indazolyl benzofuranyl benzothiofuranyl benztetrazolyl benzotriazolyl benzisoxazolyl benzoxazolyl oxindolyl benzoxazolinyl benzthiazolyl benzisothiazolyl isatinoyl isoquinolinyl octahydroisoquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl isoxazolopyridinyl quinazolinyl quinolinyl isothiazolopyridinyl thiazolopyridinyl oxazolopyridinyl imidazolopyridinyl and pyrazolopyridinyl.

Examples of 5 to 6 membered heterocycles include but are not limited to pyridinyl furanyl thienyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl pyrazinyl piperazinyl piperidinyl imidazolyl imidazolidinyl indolyl tetrazolyl isoxazolyl morpholinyl oxazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiadiazinyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl triazinyl and triazolyl. Also included are fused ring and spiro compounds containing for example the above heterocycles.

As used herein the term bicyclic heterocycle or bicyclic heterocyclic group is intended to mean a stable 9 or 10 membered heterocyclic ring system which contains two fused rings and consists of carbon atoms and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of N O and S. Of the two fused rings one ring is a 5 or 6 membered monocyclic aromatic ring comprising a 5 membered heteroaryl ring a 6 membered heteroaryl ring or a benzo ring each fused to a second ring. The second ring is a 5 or 6 membered monocyclic ring which is saturated partially unsaturated or unsaturated and comprises a 5 membered heterocycle a 6 membered heterocycle or a carbocycle provided the first ring is not benzo when the second ring is a carbocycle .

The bicyclic heterocyclic group may be attached to its pendant group at any heteroatom or carbon atom which results in a stable structure. The bicyclic heterocyclic group described herein may be substituted on carbon or on a nitrogen atom if the resulting compound is stable. It is preferred that when the total number of S and O atoms in the heterocycle exceeds 1 then these heteroatoms are not adjacent to one another. It is preferred that the total number of S and O atoms in the heterocycle is not more than 1.

Examples of a bicyclic heterocyclic group are but not limited to quinolinyl isoquinolinyl phthalazinyl quinazolinyl indolyl isoindolyl indolinyl 1H indazolyl benzimidazolyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolinyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro quinolinyl 2 3 dihydro benzofuranyl chromanyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro quinoxalinyl and 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro quinazolinyl.

As used herein the term aromatic heterocyclic group or heteroaryl is intended to mean stable monocyclic and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons that include at least one heteroatom ring member such as sulfur oxygen or nitrogen. Heteroaryl groups include without limitation pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl furyl quinolyl isoquinolyl thienyl imidazolyl thiazolyl indolyl pyrroyl oxazolyl benzofuryl benzothienyl benzthiazolyl isoxazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl indazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl isothiazolyl purinyl carbazolyl benzimidazolyl indolinyl benzodioxolanyl and benzodioxane. Heteroaryl groups are substituted or unsubstituted. The nitrogen atom is substituted or unsubstituted i.e. N or NR wherein R is H or another substituent if defined . The nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized i.e. N O and S O wherein p is 0 1 or 2 .

Bridged rings are also included in the definition of heterocycle. A bridged ring occurs when one or more atoms i.e. C O N or S link two non adjacent carbon or nitrogen atoms. Examples of bridged rings include but are not limited to one carbon atom two carbon atoms one nitrogen atom two nitrogen atoms and a carbon nitrogen group. It is noted that a bridge always converts a monocyclic ring into a tricyclic ring. When a ring is bridged the substituents recited for the ring may also be present on the bridge.

The term counter ion is used to represent a negatively charged species such as chloride bromide hydroxide acetate and sulfate or a positively charged species such as sodium Na potassium K ammonium RNH where n 0 4 and m 0 4 and the like.

The term electron withdrawing group EWG refers to a substituent which polarizes a bond drawing electron density towards itself and away from other bonded atoms. Examples of EWG include but are not limited to CF CFCF CN halogen haloalkyl NO sulfone sulfoxide ester sulfonamide carboxamide alkoxy alkoxyether alkenyl alkynyl OH C O alkyl COH phenyl heteroaryl O phenyl and O heteroaryl. Preferred examples of EWG include but are not limited to CF CFCF CN halogen SO Calkyl CONH Calkyl CON Calkyl and heteroaryl. More preferred examples of EWG include but are not limited to CFand CN.

As used herein the term amine protecting group means any group known in the art of organic synthesis for the protection of amine groups which is stable to an ester reducing agent a di substituted hydrazine R4 M and R7 M a nucleophile a hydrazine reducing agent an activator a strong base a hindered amine base and a cyclizing agent. Such amine protecting groups fitting these criteria include those listed in Greene et al. John Wiley Sons New York 1991 and Vol. 3 Academic Press New York 1981 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. Examples of amine protecting groups include but are not limited to the following 1 acyl types such as formyl trifluoroacetyl phthalyl and p toluenesulfonyl 2 aromatic carbamate types such as benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz and substituted benzyloxycarbonyls 1 p biphenyl 1 methylethoxycarbonyl and 9 fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl Fmoc 3 aliphatic carbamate types such as tert butyloxycarbonyl Boc ethoxycarbonyl diisopropylmethoxycarbonyl and allyloxycarbonyl 4 cyclic alkyl carbamate types such as cyclopentyloxycarbonyl and adamantyloxycarbonyl 5 alkyl types such as triphenylmethyl and benzyl 6 trialkylsilane such as trimethylsilane 7 thiol containing types such as phenylthiocarbonyl and dithiasuccinoyl and 8 alkyl types such as triphenylmethyl methyl and benzyl and substituted alkyl types such as 2 2 2 trichloroethyl 2 phenylethyl and t butyl and trialkylsilane types such as trimethylsilane.

As referred to herein the term substituted means that at least one hydrogen atom is replaced with a non hydrogen group provided that normal valencies are maintained and that the substitution results in a stable compound. Ring double bonds as used herein are double bonds that are formed between two adjacent ring atoms e.g. C C C N or N N .

In cases wherein there are nitrogen atoms e.g. amines on compounds of the present invention these may be converted to N oxides by treatment with an oxidizing agent e.g. mCPBA and or hydrogen peroxides to afford other compounds of this invention. Thus shown and claimed nitrogen atoms are considered to cover both the shown nitrogen and its N oxide NO derivative.

When any variable occurs more than one time in any constituent or formula for a compound its definition at each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Thus for example if a group is shown to be substituted with 0 3 R then said group may optionally be substituted with up to three R groups and at each occurrence R is selected independently from the definition of R. Also combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds.

When a bond to a substituent is shown to cross a bond connecting two atoms in a ring then such substituent may be bonded to any atom on the ring. When a substituent is listed without indicating the atom in which such substituent is bonded to the rest of the compound of a given formula then such substituent may be bonded via any atom in such substituent. Combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms that are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response and or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to derivatives of the disclosed compounds wherein the parent compound is modified by making acid or base salts thereof. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to mineral or organic acid salts of basic groups such as amines and alkali or organic salts of acidic groups such as carboxylic acids. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the conventional non toxic salts or the quaternary ammonium salts of the parent compound formed for example from non toxic inorganic or organic acids. For example such conventional non toxic salts include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric sulfamic phosphoric and nitric and the salts prepared from organic acids such as acetic propionic succinic glycolic stearic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic pamoic maleic hydroxymaleic phenylacetic glutamic benzoic salicylic sulfanilic 2 acetoxybenzoic fumaric toluenesulfonic methanesulfonic ethane disulfonic oxalic and isethionic and the like.

The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention can be synthesized from the parent compound that contains a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods. Generally such salts can be prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water or in an organic solvent or in a mixture of the two generally nonaqueous media like ether ethyl acetate ethanol isopropanol or acetonitrile are preferred. Lists of suitable salts are found in 18th Edition Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1990 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In addition compounds of formula I may have prodrug forms. Any compound that will be converted in vivo to provide the bioactive agent i.e. a compound of formula I is a prodrug within the scope and spirit of the invention. Various forms of prodrugs are well known in the art. For examples of such prodrug derivatives see 

Compounds containing a carboxy group can form physiologically hydrolyzable esters that serve as prodrugs by being hydrolyzed in the body to yield formula I compounds per se. Such prodrugs are preferably administered orally since hydrolysis in many instances occurs principally under the influence of the digestive enzymes. Parenteral administration may be used where the ester per se is active or in those instances where hydrolysis occurs in the blood. Examples of physiologically hydrolyzable esters of compounds of formula I include Calkyl Calkylbenzyl 4 methoxybenzyl indanyl phthalyl methoxymethyl Calkanoyloxy Calkyl e.g. acetoxymethyl pivaloyloxymethyl or propionyloxymethyl Calkoxycarbonyloxy Calkyl e.g. methoxycarbonyl oxymethyl or ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl glycyloxymethyl phenylglycyloxymethyl 5 methyl 2 oxo 1 3 dioxolen 4 yl methyl and other well known physiologically hydrolyzable esters used for example in the penicillin and cephalosporin arts. Such esters may be prepared by conventional techniques known in the art.

Preparation of prodrugs is well known in the art and described in for example King F. D. ed. The Royal Society of Chemistry Cambridge UK 1994 Testa B. et al. VCHA and Wiley VCH Zurich Switzerland 2003 Wermuth C. G. ed. Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1999 .

The present invention is intended to include all isotopes of atoms occurring in the present compounds. Isotopes include those atoms having the same atomic number but different mass numbers. By way of general example and without limitation isotopes of hydrogen include deuterium and tritium. Isotopes of carbon include C and C. Isotopically labeled compounds of the invention can generally be prepared by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described herein using an appropriate isotopically labeled reagent in place of the non labeled reagent otherwise employed.

The term solvate means a physical association of a compound of this invention with one or more solvent molecules whether organic or inorganic. This physical association includes hydrogen bonding. In certain instances the solvate will be capable of isolation for example when one or more solvent molecules are incorporated in the crystal lattice of the crystalline solid. The solvent molecules in the solvate may be present in a regular arrangement and or a non ordered arrangement. The solvate may comprise either a stoichiometric or nonstoichiometric amount of the solvent molecules. Solvate encompasses both solution phase and isolable solvates. Exemplary solvates include but are not limited to hydrates ethanolates methanolates and isopropanolates. Methods of solvation are generally known in the art.

As used herein the term patient refers to organisms to be treated by the methods of the present invention. Such organisms preferably include but are not limited to mammals e.g. murines simians equines bovines porcines canines felines and the like and most preferably includes humans.

As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount refers to the amount of a compound e.g. a compound of the present invention sufficient to effect beneficial or desired results. An effective amount can be administered in one or more administrations applications or dosages and is not intended to be limited to a particular formulation or administration route. As used herein the term treating includes any effect e.g. lessening reducing modulating ameliorating or eliminating that results in the improvement of the condition disease disorder and the like or ameliorating a symptom thereof.

As used herein the term pharmaceutical composition refers to the combination of an active agent with a carrier inert or active making the composition especially suitable for diagnostic or therapeutic use in vivo or ex vivo.

Examples of bases include but are not limited to alkali metals e.g. sodium hydroxides alkaline earth metals e.g. magnesium hydroxides ammonia and compounds of formula NW wherein W is Calkyl and the like.

For therapeutic use salts of the compounds of the present invention are contemplated as being pharmaceutically acceptable. However salts of acids and bases that are non pharmaceutically acceptable may also find use for example in the preparation or purification of a pharmaceutically acceptable compound.

Certain compounds of Formula I may generally be prepared according to the following Schemes 1 13. Tautomers and solvates e.g. hydrates of the compounds of Formula I are also within the scope of the present invention. Methods of solvation are generally known in the art. Accordingly the compounds of the instant invention may be in the free or hydrate form and may be obtained by methods exemplified by the following schemes.

General routes to analogues described in the invention are illustrated in Schemes 1 13. The tetrahydroisoquinoline carboxylic acid coupling partner 10 can be prepared as shown in Scheme 1. Pictet Spengler cyclization of 3 5 diiodotyrosine 1 with formaldehyde and subsequent catalytic hydrogenation provides derivative 2. Conversion to the amide intermediate 4 can occur through a two step procedure employing a coupling reagent such as EDC after protection of the secondary amine with Boc anhydride. Aryl triflate formation followed by palladium catalyzed methoxycarbonylation then provides intermediate 5. Following deprotection of the t butyl carbamate under acidic conditions e.g. TFA the secondary amine can be treated with various N protected amino acids 6 in the presence of a coupling reagent such as EDC to furnish intermediate 7. Primary amine formation can be achieved using conditions dependent on the nature of PG. For example removal of Fmoc can occur using basic conditions e.g. piperidine while acidic conditions such as TFA cleaves a Boc protected amine Amide formation in the presence of a coupling reagent such as EDC can be followed by hydrolysis to provide the carboxylic acid coupling partners 10.

Linear heterodimeric compounds 18 can be prepared through the coupling of carboxylic acids 10 and aminoproline analogues 17 as outlined in Scheme 2. Fmoc protected aminoproline 11 can be converted into amide intermediate 12 by employing a coupling reagent such as EDC. Conversion to the elaborated intermediate 17 can be accomplished using chemistry described in Scheme 1 and removal of the Fmoc protecting group under basic conditions e.g. piperidine . Synthesis of the heterodimeric analogues 18 can occur through a two step procedure employing carboxylic acids 10 and a coupling reagent such as EDC followed by removal of the Boc carbamates under acidic conditions e.g. TFA .

Alternatively linear heterodimeric compounds 18 can be furnished through the sequence outlined in Scheme 3. Coupling of Cbz protected aminoproline and carboxylic acids 10 can be accomplished in the presence of a coupling reagent such as EDC to provide intermediate 20. Hydrolysis of the methyl ester and conversion to the amide in the presence of a coupling reagent such as EDC can be followed by hydrogenolysis with palladium hydroxide on carbon to afford secondary amine 22. Conversion to the linear heterodimeric analogues 18 can be accomplished using chemistry described in Scheme 2.

Analogues such as 29 can be prepared according to the route illustrated in Scheme 4. Treatment of commercially available S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 4 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid Aldrich with various primary amines in the presence of a coupling reagent such as EDC can provide ketoprolines 24. Starting from the known carboxylic acid 25 Anderson P. C. et al. European Patent Application No. EP 401676 A1 1990 aniline 26 can be accessed in two steps e.g. EDC coupling then reduction with Pd C . Reductive amination followed by Boc deprotection under acidic conditions and coupling with carboxylic acids 13 can give the elaborated intermediates 28. After cleavage of the Boc protecting groups treatment of the resulting bis amine with carboxylic acids 15 in the presence of a coupling reagent can be followed by TFA mediated cleavage of the Boc carbamates to give the heterodimeric compounds 29.

Related compounds 34 can be prepared as depicted in Scheme 5. Commercially available 2S 4R 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxypyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylate 30 Aldrich and hydroxy tetrahydroisoquinoline 31 prepared according to Scheme 1 can undergo Mitsunobu coupling with ADDP and PPhto give 32. Following hydrolysis under basic conditions e.g. NaOH treatment with various primary amines in the presence of a coupling reagent such as EDC gives the bis amide intermediate 33. Elaboration to the final compounds 34 can be achieved as previously described in Scheme 4 i.e. 27 29 .

Analogues such as 42 R R can be accessed using the route described in Scheme 6. Coupling of commercially available S 1 benzyloxy carbonyl 4 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid 35 Aldrich with a primary amine in the presence of for example EDC can give keto prolines 36. Conversion to enol triflate 37 can then be accomplished using NaHMDS and PhTfN. Aryl triflate 38 prepared according to Scheme 1 can be converted to boronate ester 39 which can undergo Suzuki coupling with 37 to give the unsaturated intermediate 40. Simultaneous reduction of the olefin and cleavage of the Cbz protecting group can occur using Pd OH in the presence of H. Intermediate 41 can then be converted to fully elaborated compounds 42 following the chemistry depicted in Scheme 4.

When R R an alternative route to compound 42 is employed Scheme 7 . From intermediate 41 Scheme 6 coupling with Fmoc N protected carboxylic acids 43 can be followed by selective removal of the Boc carbamate under acidic conditions e.g. TFA to give the secondary amine 44. Subsequent amide formation followed by cleavage of the Fmoc protecting groups using for example piperidine can give the bis amine 46 which is converted to the final analogues 42 as previously shown in Scheme 4.

Analogues such as 52 can be accessed according to the route shown in Scheme 8. Commercially available 6 hydroxy 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid Aldrich can undergo Boc protection followed by amide formation in the presence of a coupling reagent and then acid mediated cleavage of the Boc carbamate to give racemic amine 48. Following the sequence outlined in Scheme 1 48 can be elaborated to phenol 49. After conversion to the aryl triflate palladium catalyzed carbonylation can provide the carboxylic acid coupling partner 51. Exposure to aminoproline intermediate 17 and a coupling reagent such as EDC can provide compound 52 after global Boc deprotection.

 Thiovaline derivatives such as 61 and 62 can be accessed using the routes shown below in Scheme 9. Boc protection of commercially available R 2 amino 3 mercapto 3 methylbutanoic acid 53 Aldrich can be followed by reaction with methyl bromoacetate to give 55. Intermediate 41 Scheme 6 can undergo coupling with Cbz protected amino acid 56 followed by selective removal of the Boc group under acidic conditions. Coupling with carboxylic acid 55 using for example HATU can be followed by cleavage of the Cbz protecting groups with Pd OH in the presence of H. Treatment of the resulting bis amine with amino acid 15 in the presence of a coupling reagent and then hydrolysis of the methyl ester can give 59. TFA mediated cleavage of the Boc carbamates provides 60. Alternatively the carboxylic acid of 59 can be reduced using CDI and NaBHto give primary alcohol 61 after treatment with TFA. Intermediate 59 can be further elaborated by coupling with various amines to provide after global Boc deprotection amides 62.

When R R the route depicted in Scheme 10 can be employed for the preparation of compounds 42. Enol triflate 63 prepared in two steps from commercially available S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 4 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid Chem Impex according to Scheme 6 can undergo Suzuki coupling with boronate ester 64 also prepared according to Scheme 6 starting from S 2 tert butyl 3 methyl 7 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl oxy 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 3 1H dicarboxylate Ohta M. et al. 58 1066 1076 2010 . Following hydrogenation of the olefin ester hydrolysis can give carboxylic acid 66. Coupling with various primary amines gives intermediate 67 which can be converted to the final analogues 42 as previously shown in Scheme 4.

Further elaboration of derivatives such as 68 prepared according to Scheme 10 can be achieved as in Scheme 11. After hydrolysis of the methyl ester Boc deprotection under acidic conditions can give analogue 70. Alternatively intermediate 69 can be converted to amides 71 upon exposure to a variety of secondary amines in the presence of a coupling reagent followed by treatment with TFA.

Related analogues can be prepared according to Scheme 12. Suzuki coupling of enol triflate 72 prepared in one step from S 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 4 oxopyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylate Aldrich refer to Scheme 6 and boronate ester 39 Scheme 6 gives 73 after hydrogenation. Elaboration to 74 can occur as previously described in Scheme 4. Ester hydrolysis under basic conditions followed by coupling with S methyl 2 amino 3 phenylpropanoate 75 gives intermediate 76. Conversion to derivatives 77 can be achieved in three steps hydrolysis amide coupling global Boc deprotection .

As an alternative to Scheme 6 symmetric analogues such as 42 can be prepared as shown in Scheme 13. Suzuki coupling of enol triflate 72 Scheme 12 and boronate ester 64 Scheme 10 gives bis ester 78 after reduction of the olefin. Basic hydrolysis of the esters can be followed by coupling with various primary amines to give bis amide 79. Conversion to the final analogues 42 can be achieved as previously described in Scheme 4.

All reactions were carried out with continuous magnetic stirring under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen or argon. All evaporations and concentrations were carried out on a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure. Commercial reagents were used as received without additional purification. Solvents were commercial anhydrous grades and were used without further drying or purification. Flash chromatography was performed using prepacked REDISEP Rsilica gel columns on a CombiFlash Companion machine.

Preparative Reverse Phase HPLC was performed with a linear gradient elution using HO MeOH or HO MeCN mixtures buffered with 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid or 10 mM NHOAc and detection at 220 nm on one of the following columns Shimadzu Sunfire S10 30 250 mm flow rate 40 mL min or C18 PHENOMENEX Luna S5 ODS 21 100 mm flow rate 20 mL min or YMC S5 ODS 20 100 mm flow rate 20 mL min or Waters XBridge C18 19 250 mm flow rate 20 mL min Preparative Supercritical Fluid Chromatography SFC was performed using 78 CO MeOH buffered with 0.1 diethylamine and detection at 220 nm on a CHIRALPAK AS H IDS 25 3 cm column flow rate 85 mL min 

All final products were characterized by H NMR RP HPLC and electrospray ionization ESI or atmospheric pressure ionization API mass spectrometry MS . H NMR spectra were obtained a 500 MHz or a 400 MHz Bruker instrument. Field strengths are expressed in units of parts per million ppm relative to the solvent peaks and peak multiplicities are designated as follows s singlet d doublet dd doublet of doublets t triplet q quartet sxt sextet br s broad singlet m multiplet.

A thick walled reaction flask with a screw top was charged sequentially with S 2 amino 3 4 hydroxy 3 5 diiodophenyl propanoic acid Chem Impex Int l Inc. 5.0 g 12 mmol 1 2 dimethoxyethane 5.0 mL formaldehyde 37 wt. in HO 4.5 mL 60 mmol and conc. HCl 60.2 mL 1981 mmol . The resulting tan slurry was sealed with a screw top and heated to 72 C. slowly over 30 min and then maintained at 72 C. for 12 h. The resulting brown reaction slurry was then cooled to 0 C. filtered while cold and washed with small amounts of 1 2 dimethoxyethane to give the title compound 2.42 g 5.45 mmol 47 as a white solid. H NMR DMSO d 9.93 br s 1H 9.69 br s 1H 7.75 s 1H 4.34 d J 7.7 Hz 1H 4.21 3.94 m 2H 3.93 3.47 m 1H 3.33 3.16 m 1H 3.15 2.97 m 1H MS ESI m z 445.9 M H .

 S 7 Hydroxy 6 8 diiodo 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid 2.0 g 4.5 mmol and 5 Pd C 0.48 g 0.22 mmol were suspended in HO 24 mL and EtN 2.1 mL 15 mmol . EtOH 73 mL purged with Hwas then syringed into a reaction flask. The reaction mixture was topped with a balloon of Hand stirred for 4 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through CELITE washing with MeOH and concentrated in vacuo to give crude S 7 hydroxy 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid which was used directly in the next step. MS ESL m z 193.1 M H .

To a solution of crude L 7 hydroxy 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid 0.87 g 4.5 mmol and NaHCO 0.76 g 9.0 mmol in THF 26 mL and HO 26 mL was added BocO 1.1 mL 4.9 mmol . After 12 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to remove the volatiles and acidified to pH 4 with 1N HCl resulting in a cloudy yellow solution. The solution was then partitioned in CHCl and the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 3 and the combined organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give crude S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 hydroxy 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid which was used directly in the next step. MS ESI m z 294.3 M H .

To a 0 C. solution of S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 hydroxy 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid 1.32 g 4.49 mmol in DMF 30 mL was added EDC 1.03 g 5.39 mmol followed by HOAt 0.73 g 5.39 mmol . After 10 min R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 amine Alfa Aesar 0.66 mL 4.49 mmol and NMM 1.48 mL 13.5 mmol were added. The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature over 4 h and then poured into a separatory funnel containing EtOAc and sat. aq. NaHCOsolution. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic extracts were washed with 1N HCl 10 LiCl and sat. NaCl and then dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was then purified by flash chromatography gradient elution from 0 to 70 EtOAc hexanes to afford the title compound 1.25 g 2.96 mmol 66 over 3 steps as a light yellow foam. H NMR CDCl 7.18 6.86 m 4H 6.84 6.67 m 1H 6.58 6.39 m 1H 6.04 5.74 m 2H 4.94 d J 5.7 Hz 1H 4.78 4.61 m 1H 4.56 4.41 m 1H 4.20 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 3.34 d J 13.4 Hz 1H 3.02 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 2.81 2.60 m 2H 1.87 1.68 m 2H 1.67 1.54 m 2H 1.53 1.37 m 9H MS ESI m z 423.2 M H .

To a solution of S tert butyl 7 hydroxy 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 1.25 g 2.96 mmol in CHCl 30 mL was added EtN 1.24 mL 8.89 mmol and DMAP 0.036 g 0.30 mmol . The solution was cooled to 0 C. and PhNTf 1.27 g 3.55 mmol was then added in one portion. After stirring at 0 C. for 15 min the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature stirred for 1 h and then concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified by flash chromatography gradient elution from 0 to 70 EtOAc hexanes to afford the title compound 1.39 g 2.50 mmol 84 as a white foam. MS ESI m z 555.4 M H .

A 20 mL scintillation vial with a septum top was charged sequentially with S tert butyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 7 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl oxy 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 1.39 g 2.50 mmol Pd OAc 0.028 g 0.12 mmol and 1 3 bis diphenylphosphino propane 0.052 g 0.12 mmol . DMSO 3.7 mL MeOH 2.5 mL and EtN 0.77 mL 5.50 mmol were then added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 5 min. A CO balloon was then used to purge the reaction vial turning the solution black. The reaction was topped with the CO balloon and heated to 70 C. for 12 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered through an ACRODISC and the filtrate was poured into a separatory funnel containing EtOAc and sat. aq. NHCl solution. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 2 . The combined organic layers were washed with sat. NaCl 2 dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified by flash column chromatography gradient elution from 0 to 50 EtOAc hexanes to afford the title compound 1.06 g 2.28 mmol 91 as a light yellow solid. MS ESI m z 465.2 M H .

To a solution of S 2 tert butyl 7 methyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 7 1H dicarboxylate 1.06 g 2.28 mmol in CHCl 22.8 mL was added TFA 5.7 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h and then quenched with sat. aq. NaHCOsolution. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting oil was then lyophilized from MeCN HO overnight to give the title compound 0.79 g 2.18 mmol 96 as a light yellow solid. H NMR DMSO d 8.39 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.85 7.67 m 2H 7.34 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 7.24 7.02 m 4H 5.12 4.93 m 1H 4.23 3.97 m 2H 3.86 s 3H 3.73 dd J 10.0 4.7 Hz 1H 3.33 br s 1H 3.18 3.05 m 1H 3.03 2.88 m 1H 2.86 2.63 m 2H 2.02 1.83 m 2H 1.81 1.64 m 2H MS ESI m z 365.1 M H .

To a 0 C. solution of S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoic acid 473 mg 2.04 mmol and S methyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 7 carboxylate 745 mg 2.04 mmol in CHCl 12.4 mL was added EDC 471 mg 2.45 mmol HOAt 334 mg 2.45 mmol and NMM 675 L 6.14 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature overnight and then quenched with EtOAc and sat. NaHCO. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with 1N HCl 2 sat. aq. NaCl solution 1 dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound 1.18 g 2.045 mmol 100 as a light yellow foam which was used without further purification. MS ESI m z 578.2 M H .

A solution of S methyl 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 7 carboxylate 1.21 g 2.09 mmol in CHCl 13.9 mL was charged with TFA 3.49 mL at room temperature. After 40 min the reaction mixture was quenched carefully with sat. NaHCOand then extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined extracts were washed with sat. NaCl dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 0.97 g 2.02 mmol 97 as a light yellow foam which was used without further purification. MS ESI m z 478.2 M H .

To a 0 C. solution of S methyl 2 S 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 7 carboxylate 966 mg 2.02 mmol and S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanoic acid Advanced ChemTech 411 mg 2.02 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added EDC 465 mg 2.43 mmol followed by HOAt 330 mg 2.43 mmol . NMM 667 l 6.07 mmol was then added and the resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min then warmed to room temperature and stirred for 4 h. The reaction mixture was then poured into a separatory funnel containing EtOAc and sat. aq. NaHCOsolution. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with 1N HCl 2 and 10 LiCl dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound 1.34 g 2.02 mmol 100 as a light yellow foam which was used without further purification. MS ESI m z 663.3 M H .

To a solution of S methyl 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 7 carboxylate 1.34 g 2.02 mmol in THF 13.5 mL and MeOH 6.7 mL was added NaOH aq. 3N 3.4 mL 10.1 mmol . After 3 h the reaction mixture was poured into a sep funnel containing EtOAc and 1N HCl. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic extracts were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 1.25 g 1.93 mmol 95 as a light yellow foam which was used without further purification. MS ESI m z 649.3 M H .

To a solution of 2S 4S Boc gamma Fmoc amino proline Chem Impex 6.00 g 13.3 mmol in DMF 20 mL at 0 C. were added EDC 3.05 g 15.9 mmol HOAt 2.17 g 15.9 mmol and NMM 4.38 mL 39.8 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at ice bath temperature for 20 min then treated with a solution of R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 amine Alfa Aesar 2.15 g 14.6 mmol in DMF 2 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h and cold water 100 mL was added to the reaction mixture. The solid that formed was collected by filtration and washed with cold water 100 mL . The solid was dissolved in CHCl 200 mL and the organic solution was washed with 5 aq. citric acid solution and brine dried over MgSO and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in CHCland purified by flash column chromatography gradient elution from 10 to 30 EtOAc in CHCl provided the title compound 6.70 g 87 as a light tan solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.79 d J 7.5 Hz 2H 7.67 d J 7.3 Hz 2H 7.42 td J 7.2 4.0 Hz 2H 7.37 7.03 m 6H 5.22 br. s. 1H 4.57 4.23 m 5H 3.68 3.49 m 2H 2.91 2.74 m 2H 2.52 d J 13.4 Hz 1H 2.35 2.21 m 1H 2.14 d J 5.1 Hz 1H 1.97 1.80 m 3H 1.44 s 9H MS ESI m z 582.2 M H .

To a solution of 2S 4S tert butyl 4 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl amino 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 6.70 g 11.5 mmol in CHCl 50 mL at rt was added TFA 15 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h and then concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in CHCl 200 mL and washed with aq. KHPOsolution 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give crude 9H fluoren 9 yl methyl 3S 5S 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl carbamate 5.54 g 100 which was used directly in the next step.

To a solution of S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoic acid 3.19 g 13.8 mmol in DMF 20 mL at 0 C. were added EDC 3.31 g 17.3 mmol HOAt 2.35 g 17.3 mmol and NMM 3.80 mL 34.5 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at ice bath temperature for 20 min then treated with a suspension of 9H fluoren 9 yl methyl 3S 5S 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl carbamate 5.54 g 11.5 mmol in DMF 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h and cold water 200 mL was added to the reaction mixture. The solid that formed was collected by filtration and washed with of cold water 100 mL . The solid was dissolved in CHCl 200 mL . The organic solution was washed with sat. aq. NaHCOsolution 5 aq. citric acid solution and brine dried over MgSOand filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in CHCland purified using flash column chromatography gradient elution from 10 to 30 EtOAc in CHCl provided the title compound 7.10 g 89 as a light tan solid. MS ESI m z 695.5 M H .

To a solution of tert butyl S 3 3 dimethyl 1 2S 4S 4 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl amino 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl 1 oxobutan 2 yl carbamate 7.10 g 10.2 mmol in CHCl 50 mL at rt was added TFA 15 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h and then concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in CHCl 200 mL and washed with aq. KHPOsolution 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give crude 9H fluoren 9 yl methyl 3S 5S 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl carbamate 6.08 g 100 which was used directly in the next step.

To a solution of S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanoic acid Chem Impex 2.49 g 12.3 mmol in DMF 20 mL at 0 C. were added EDC 2.94 g 15.3 mmol HOAt 2.09 g 15.3 mmol and NMM 2.81 mL 25.6 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at ice bath temperature for 20 min and then treated with a solution of 9H fluoren 9 yl methyl 3S 5S 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl carbamate 6.45 g 10.2 mmol in DMF 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h and then cold water 200 mL was added to the reaction mixture. The solid that formed was collected by filtration and washed with cold water 100 mL . The solid was dissolved in CHCl 200 mL . The organic solution was washed with sat. aq. NaHCOsolution 5 aq. citric acid solution and brine dried over MgSO and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in CHCland purified by flash column chromatography gradient elution from 10 to 40 EtOAc in CHCl provided the title compound 6.14 g 77 as a light tan solid. MS ESI m z 780.5 M H .

To a solution of tert butyl S 1 S 1 2S 4S 4 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl amino 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl methyl carbamate 6.14 g 7.87 mmol in CHCl 40 mL was added piperidine 4.67 mL 47.2 mmol dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was washed with methanol and the resulting solid was removed by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and purified by flash column chromatography gradient elution from 0 to 10 MeOH CHCl to give the title compound 3.48 g 79 as a light tan solid. MS ESI m z 558.4 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those for the preparation of Compounds D and G S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 7 carboxylic acid Compound K 63 mg 0.097 mmol and tert butyl S 1 S 1 2S 4S 4 amino 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl methyl carbamate Compound O 57 mg 0.10 mmol were converted to the title compound 24 mg 27 over 2 steps after purification using prep HPLC. MS ESI m z 988.6 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 7 carboxylic acid Compound K 165 mg 0.25 mmol and 2S 4S 1 benzyl 2 methyl 4 aminopyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylate HCl Acesys Pharmatech 80 mg 0.25 mmol were converted to the title compound 192 mg 83 . MS ESI m z 909.3 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound K 2S 4S 1 benzyl 2 methyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 7 carboxamido pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylate 192 mg 0.21 mmol was converted to the title compound 187 mg 99 . MS ESI m z 895.5 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D 2S 4S 1 benzyloxy carbonyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 7 carboxamido pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid 187 mg 0.21 mmol and R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 amine Alfa Aesar 31 L 0.21 mmol were converted to the title compound 178 mg 83 . MS ESI m z 1024.6 M H .

To a 50 mL pressure flask containing Pd OH on carbon 2 mg 0.02 mmol was added a solution of 2S 4S benzyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 7 carboxamido 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 177 mg 0.17 mmol in MeOH 5.8 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred under Hat 15 psi for 2 h and then filtered through a pad of CELITE washing with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting crude oil was purified using flash column chromatography gradient elution from 0 to 10 NH MeOH CHCl to give the title compound 80 mg 52 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m z 890.6 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compounds H tert butyl S 1 S 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxo 1 S 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 7 3S 5S 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl butan 2 yl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl methyl carbamate 80 mg 0.090 mmol and S 2 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoic acid Chem Impex 33 mg 0.094 mmol were reacted to give a crude oil which was then dissolved in CHCl 1.8 mL . Piperidine 71 L 0.72 mmol was added and the resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and then concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was redissolved in MeOH and concentrated in vacuo again. The resulting residue was dissolved in a minimal amount of CHCland filtered through a pad of silica gel washing with 50 EtOAc hexanes 50 mL . The silica pad was then washed with 10 MeOH CHCl 50 mL followed by 20 NH MeOH CHCl 35 mL into separate flasks. The combined MeOH washes were concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound which was used directly in the subsequent step. MS ESI m z 1003.6 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compounds J tert butyl S 1 S 1 S 7 3S 5S 1 S 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl carbamoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl methyl carbamate 90 mg 0.090 mmol and S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanoic acid Advanced ChemTech 19 mg 0.094 mmol were reacted to give a crude oil which was used without purification in the subsequent step. MS ESI m z 1188.7 M H .

The crude oil from above was dissolved in TFA 2.1 mL 5.40 mmol 20 in CHCl and stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and purified using prep HPLC to give the title compound 45 mg 50 over 4 steps as a white solid after lyophilization. MS ESI m z 988.6 M H .

The following Examples were prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 1.

The following Examples were prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 1.

The following Examples were prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 1.

The following Examples were prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 1.

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 1 S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 4 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid OmegaChem 500 mg 2.18 mmol and R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 amine Alfa Aesar 320 L 2.18 mmol were converted to the title compound 782 mg 100 . MS ESI m z 359.2 M H .

To a 0 C. solution of S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 nitro 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid 3.49 g 10.8 mmol in DMF 72 mL was added EDC 2.49 g 13.0 mmol followed by HOAt 1.77 g 13.0 mmol . After 10 min R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 amine Alfa Aesar 1.59 mL 10.8 mmol and NMM 3.57 mL 32.5 mmol were added and the resulting reaction mixture was stirred warming to room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was then diluted with EtOAc and sat. aq. NaHCOsolution. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic extracts were washed with 1N HCl water 10 aq. LiCl solution and brine. The extracts were dried over NaSO filtered through a pad of silica gel and concentrated in vacuo to provide the title compound 4.27 g 87 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m z 452.3 M H . Anderson P. C. et al. European Patent. Application No. EP 401676 A1 1990 .

To a pressure flask containing 5 Pd C 91 mg 0.085 mg was added a solution of S tert butyl 7 nitro 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 0.38 g 0.85 mmol in MeOH 8.5 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred under 5 psi Hfor 1 h and then filtered through a pad of CELITE rinsing with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound 301 mg 84 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m z 422.2 M H .

To a solution of S tert butyl 4 oxo 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 73 mg 0.20 mmol in DCE 2.0 mL was added S tert butyl 7 amino 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 86 mg 0.20 mmol and AcOH 12 L 0.20 mmol . Na OAc BH 78 mg 0.37 mmol was then added and the resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. Additional AcOH 12 L 0.20 mmol and Na OAc BH 78 mg 0.37 mmol were added and stirring was continued overnight at room temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into a separatory funnel containing 1N HCl and EtOAc. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organics were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound 151 mg 97 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m z 764.5 M H .

To a solution of S tert butyl 7 3S 5S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl amino 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 150 mg 0.20 mmol in CHCl 2.2 mL was added TFA 303 L 3.93 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. Additional TFA 303 L 3.93 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 h then quenched carefully with sat. aq. NaHCOsolution and poured into a separatory funnel containing EtOAc. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organics were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound 111 mg 100 as a tan solid. MS ESI m z 564.4 M H .

To a 0 C. solution of S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoic acid 47 mg 0.20 mmol and S N R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl 7 3S 5S 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl amino 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamide 55 mg 0.10 mmol in CHCl 1.0 mL was added EDC 45 mg 0.23 mmol followed by HOAt 32 mg 0.23 mmol . NMM 64 L 0.58 mmol was added and the resulting reaction mixture was stirred warming to room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was then poured into a separatory funnel containing EtOAc and sat. aq. NaHCOsolution. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with 1N HCl and brine. The extracts were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound 93 mg 96 as a pale yellow oil. MS ESI m z 990.6 M H .

 S 2 S 3 3 Dimethyl 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methylamino propanamido butanoyl 7 3S 5S 1 S 3 3 dimethyl 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methylamino propanamido butanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl amino N R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamide 93 mg 0.09 mmol was subjected to the reaction conditions described for the synthesis of Compound E. The resulting crude oil was dissolved in DMF 1.0 mL and cooled to 0 C. S 2 tert Butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanoic acid Advanced ChemTech 40 mg 0.20 mmol was added followed by EDC 43 mg 0.22 mmol and HOAt 31 mg 0.22 mmol . NMM 62 L 0.56 mmol was then added. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred warming to room temperature over 3 h and then poured into a sep funnel containing EtOAc and sat. NaHCO. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic extracts were washed with 1N HCl and brine. The extracts were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude oil was subjected to the reaction conditions described for the synthesis of Compound E to give the title compound 26 mg 28 after purification using prep HPLC. MS ESI m z 960.6 M H .

To a solution of S tert butyl 7 hydroxy 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate Compound D of Example 1 50 mg 0.12 mmol in CHCl 1.0 mL was added PPh 37 mg 0.14 mmol 2S 4R 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxypyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylate Aldrich 35 mg 0.14 mmol and ADDP 37 mg 0.14 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to stir overnight at room temperature. Additional 2S 4R 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxypyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylate 35 mg 0.14 mmol PPh 37 mg 0.14 mmol and ADDP 37 mg 0.14 mmol were then added. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 60 h then concentrated in vacuo and purified using flash column chromatography gradient from 0 to 60 EtOAc hexanes to give the title compound 66 mg 86 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m z 650.4 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound K of Example 1 2S 4S 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 4 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl oxy pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylate 66 mg 0.10 mmol was converted to the title compound 61 mg 94 . MS ESI m z 636.3 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 1 2S 4S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 4 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl oxy pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid 61 mg 0.10 mmol and R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 amine Alfa Aesar 14 L 0.10 mmol were reacted to give a crude oil which was used without purification in the subsequent step. MS ESI m z 765.5 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Compounds E F and G of Example 20 the crude oil obtained above was converted to the title compound 30 mg 32 over 5 steps . MS ESI m z 961.3 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 1 S 1 benzyloxy carbonyl 4 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid Aldrich 4.00 g 15.2 mmol and R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 amine Alfa Aesar 2.23 mL 15.2 mmol were converted to the title compound 5.96 g 100 . MS ESI m z 393.1 M H .

To a 78 C. solution of NaHMDS 2.55 mL 2.55 mmol 1M in THF was added a sonicated fine suspension of S benzyl 4 oxo 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 400 mg 1.02 mmol in THF 1.0 mL . After 15 min PhNTf 728 mg 2.04 mmol in THF 1.6 mL was added dropwise via syringe. The resulting reaction mixture was warmed to 10 C. over 2 h and then quenched with sat. aq. NaHCOsolution and warmed to room temperature. The solution was poured into a separatory funnel containing EtOAc. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organics were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give a crude oil. Purification using flash column chromatography gradient from 0 to 35 EtOAc hexanes provided the title compound 226 mg 42 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m z 524.9 M H .

A solution of S tert butyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 7 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl oxy 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate Compound D of Example 1 0.50 g 0.90 mmol KOAc 270 mg 2.75 mmol and 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 275 mg 1.08 mmol in dioxane 6.0 mL was degassed with argon. Pd dppf Cl 132 mg 0.18 mmol was added and the orange reaction mixture was stirred at 85 C. overnight and then poured into a separatory funnel containing EtOAc and water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organics were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified using flash column chromatography gradient from 0 to 100 EtOAc hexanes to give the title compound 440 mg 92 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m z 533.2 M H .

A solution of S benzyl 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 4 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl oxy 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrole 1 carboxylate 226 mg 0.43 mmol S tert butyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 7 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 229 mg 0.43 mmol and 2M aq. NaCO 540 L 1.08 mmol in dioxane 4.3 mL was degassed with argon. Pd PhP 50 mg 0.043 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 2 h and then poured into a sep funnel containing sat. NHCl. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with sat. NaCl dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give a crude oil. Purification using flash column chromatography gradient elution from 0 to 100 EtOAc hexanes provided the title compound 265 mg 79 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m z 781.2 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound T of Example 1 tert butyl S 1 S 3 3 dimethyl 1 2S 4S 4 4 nitrobenzamido 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl 1 oxobutan 2 yl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl methyl carbamate 265 mg 0.34 mmol was converted to the title compound 195 mg 89 . MS ESI m z 649.5 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound G of Example 1 S tert butyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 7 3R 5S 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 97 mg 0.15 mmol was converted to the title compound 82 mg 100 . MS ESI m z 549.2 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Compounds F and G of Example 20 S N R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl 7 3R 5S 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamide 82 0.15 mmol was converted to the title compound 27 mg 24 over 4 steps . MS ESI m z 945.8 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 1 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 hydroxy 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid Compound C of Example 1 750 mg 2.56 mmol and R 1 2 fluorophenyl ethanamine HCl Kingston Chemicals 449 mg 2.56 mmol were converted to the title compound 760 mg 72 . MS ESI m z 415.2 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound E of Example 1 S tert butyl 3 R 1 2 fluorophenyl ethyl carbamoyl 7 hydroxy 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 0.76 g 1.83 mmol was converted to the title compound 197 mg 20 . MS ESI m z 547.0 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 22 S tert butyl 3 R 1 2 fluorophenyl ethyl carbamoyl 7 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl oxy 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 150 mg 0.27 mmol was converted to the title compound 32 mg 13 over 9 steps . MS ESI m z 937.6 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound H of Example 1 S N R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl 7 3R 5S 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamide Compound F of Example 15 65 mg 0.10 mmol and S 2 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoic acid Chem Impex 37 mg 0.10 mmol were converted to the title compound 97 mg 98 . MS ESI m z 984.5 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound G of Example 1 S tert butyl 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 97 mg 0.10 mmol was converted to the title compound 85 mg 97 . MS ESI m z 884.4 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound H of Example 1 9H fluoren 9 yl methyl S 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxo 1 2S 4R 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 4 S 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl butan 2 yl carbamate 85 mg 0.096 mmol and S 2 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl amino 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl acetic acid Amatek 38 mg 0.10 mmol were converted to the title compound 78 mg 58 . MS ESI m z 1248.7 M H .

To a solution of Fmoc Precursor I 70 mg 0.056 mmol in CHCl 2.0 mL was added piperidine 44 L 0.450 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h and then additional piperidine 44 L 0.450 mmol was added. After stirring for 1 h at room temperature the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo then dissolved in a minimal amount of CHCland filtered through a pad of silica gel washing with 50 EtOAc hexanes 50 mL . The silica was then washed with 20 NH MeOH CHCl 50 mL into a separate flask. The MeOH wash was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound which was used crude in the subsequent experiment. MS ESI m z 803.5 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound F of Example 20 S 2 S 2 amino 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl acetyl 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl N R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamide 45 mg 0.056 mmol and S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanoic acid 24 mg 0.12 mmol were reacted to give a crude oil which was subjected to the reaction conditions described for Compound E of Example 20 to provide the title compound 39 mg 70 over 3 steps after purification using preparative HPLC. MS ESI m z 973.6 M H .

To a solution of 6 hydroxy 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid Aldrich 500 mg 2.59 mmol in dioxane 11.8 mL and water 14.2 mL was added BocO 678 mg 3.11 mmol followed by i PrNH 0.55 mL 3.88 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 60 h and then diluted with EtOAc and washed with 1N HCl. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 2 and the combined organic extracts were washed with sat. NaHCOand sat. NaCl. The extracts were dried over NaSO filtered concentrated in vacuo to give a crude oil which was used in the subsequent step without purification.

The crude oil from above was subjected to the reaction conditions described for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 1 to give the title compound 875 mg 80 over 2 steps as a white solid. MS ESI m z 423.3 M H .

To a solution of tert butyl 6 hydroxy 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 875 mg 2.07 mmol in CHCl 10.4 mL was added TFA 2.4 mL 31.1 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 2 h and then quenched with sat. NaHCO. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 3 . The combined organic extracts were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound 340 mg 51 as pale yellow solid. MS ESI m z 323.2 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Compounds H I and J of Example 1 6 hydroxy N R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamide 340 mg 1.06 mmol was converted to the title compound 398 mg 61 over 3 steps . MS ESI m z 621.4.

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound E of Example 1 tert butyl 2S 1 2S 1 6 hydroxy 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl methyl carbamate 211 mg 0.34 mmol was converted to the title compound 126 mg 49 . MS ESI m z 753.2 M H .

To a 2 neck 25 mL round bottom flask equipped with a reflux condenser was added 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 6 yl trifluoromethanesulfonate 126 mg 0.17 mmol in DMF 2.0 mL and water 0.7 mL . Pd OAc 2 mg 10.0 mol 1 3 bis diphenylphosphino propane 8 mg 0.020 mmol and i PrEtN 58 L 0.34 mmol were then added and a three way stopcock was attached to the reflux condenser with one outlet connected to a balloon filled with CO. The flask was evacuated and purged with CO 3 and heated at 65 C. for 2 h and then at 50 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was poured into a sep funnel containing EtO and sat. NaHCO. The layers were separated and the EtO layer was extracted with sat. aq. NaHCOsolution 2 . The aqueous layer was acidified to pH 1 with 2N HCl and then extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organics were washed with water and sat. NaCl and then dried over MgSO. Filtration and concentration in vacuo gave the title compound 109 mg 100 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m z 649.6 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those for the preparation of Compounds D and G of Example 1 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 6 carboxylic acid 109 mg 0.17 mmol and tert butyl S 1 S 1 2S 4S 4 amino 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl methyl carbamate Compound O of Example 1 94 mg 0.17 mmol were converted to the title compounds 32 mg 15 and 14 mg 7 over 2 steps respectively after separation of the diastereomers using preparative SFC. MS ESI m z 988.3 M H for both.

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound F of Example 1 S benzyl 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 4 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl oxy 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrole 1 carboxylate Compound B of Example 22 250 mg 0.48 mmol was converted to the title compound 156 mg 75 . MS ESI m z 435.3 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound T of Example 1 S 1 benzyl 3 methyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1H pyrrole 1 3 2H 5H dicarboxylate 156 mg 0.36 mmol was converted to the title compound 105 mg 97 . MS ESI m z 303.2 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Compounds H I J and K of Example 1 3S 5S methyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidine 3 carboxylate 105 mg 0.35 mmol was converted to the title compound 191 mg 94 over 4 steps . MS ESI m z 587.4 M H .

To a solution of S tert butyl 7 nitro 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate Compound C of Example 20 4.45 g 9.86 mmol in CHCl 49 mL was added TFA 11.4 mL 148 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 1 h and then quenched carefully with sat. NaHCOuntil bubbling ceased. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 3 and the combined organic extracts were washed with sat. NaHCO water and sat. NaCl. The extracts were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give 3.38 g of the title compound as a pale yellow solid. H NMR CDCl mixture of amide rotamers 8.05 d J 6.6 Hz 1H 7.97 7.88 m 1H 7.53 7.32 m 2H 7.22 6.94 m 4H 5.25 5.03 m 1H 4.18 3.94 m 2H 3.83 3.65 m 1H 3.35 dd J 16.7 5.1 Hz 1H 3.09 dd J 17.1 9.1 Hz 1H 2.90 2.70 m 2H 2.18 1.96 m 1H 1.93 1.44 m 3H MS ESI m z 352.2 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D S 7 nitro N R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamide 1.69 g 4.81 mmol and S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoic acid 1.22 g 5.29 mmol were converted to the title compound 2.65 g 98 . MS ESI m z 565.3 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound E tert butyl S 3 3 dimethyl 1 S 7 nitro 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl 1 oxobutan 2 yl carbamate 2.65 g 4.69 mmol was converted to the title compound 2.17 g 100 . MS ESI m z 465.3 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D S 2 S 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 7 nitro N R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamide 2.17 g 4.67 mmol and S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanoic acid Advanced ChemTech 0.95 g 4.67 mmol were converted to the title compound 2.93 g 97 . MS ESI m z 650.5 M H .

To a pressure flask containing 10 Pd C 240 mg 0.23 mmol was added a solution of tert butyl S 1 S 3 3 dimethyl 1 S 7 nitro 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl 1 oxobutan 2 yl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl methyl carbamate 1.46 g 2.25 mmol in MeOH 11.2 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred under Hat 15 psi for 3 h and then filtered through a pad of CELITE rinsing with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and redissolved in CHCl. The solution was filtered through a 0.45 M PTFE filter and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound 1.28 g 92 as a yellow solid. MS ESI m z 620.4 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound P of Example 1 3S 5S 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidine 3 carboxylic acid Compound C 48 mg 0.082 mmol and tert butyl S 1 S 1 S 7 amino 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl methyl carbamate 51 mg 0.082 mmol were converted to the title compound 33 mg 40 over 2 steps . MS ESI m z 988.9 M H .

 S 2 Benzyloxy carbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoic acid dicyclohexylammonium salt 0.40 g 0.89 mmol Chem Impex was dissolved in EtOAc and 1 N HCl solution. The organic layer was separated washed with brine and dried over MgSO. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the free acid. To the above acid in DMF 6 mL were added EDC 0.17 g 0.90 mmol and HOAt at ice bath temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 min followed by addition of a solution of Compound E of Example 22 0.45 g 0.69 mmol in DMF 3 mL and NMM 0.15 mL 1.39 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at rt overnight. The reaction mixture was poured into a separatory funnel containing brine and EtOAc. The aqueous layer was extracted twice and the organic layers were combined washed with sat. NaHCOsolution and dried over MgSO. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography gradient elution from 0 to 70 EtOAc hexanes to afford the product 0.44 g 71 as a white foam. MS ESI m z 896.6 M H .

To a solution of S tert butyl 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 benzyloxy carbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 0.44 g 0.49 mmol in DCE 5 mL was added TFA 1.2 mL 15.6 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was basified with sat. aq. NaHCOsolution. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 and the organic layer was separated washed with brine and dried over MgSO. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a light yellow solid 0.35 g 91 . MS ESI m z 796.5 M H .

To a suspension of R 2 amino 3 mercapto 3 methylbutanoic acid 8.0 g 53.6 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 90 mL was added a solution of NaOH 4.72 g 118 mmol in water 45 mL . The reaction mixture was then cooled with an ice bath and at this point di t butyldicarbonate 14.04 g 64.3 mmol was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was then stirred at rt for 20 h and then extracted with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was acidified with 2N HCl solution pH 1 . The resulting aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The organic layer was separated and dried over MgSO. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and dried under vacuum to give the title compound as a white solid 11.8 g 88 . H NMR DMSO d 6.90 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 4.07 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 3.57 s 1H 3.00 br. s 1H 1.40 s 15H MS ESI m z 194.1 M 56 M H .

To a solution of R 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 mercapto 3 methylbutanoic acid 4.5 g 18.05 mmol in THF 60 mL was added a solution of methyl 2 bromoacetate 3.04 g 19.85 mmol in THF 10 mL followed by DIPEA 9.46 mL 54.1 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 4.5 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to remove most of the solvent and the residue was diluted with EtOAc and sat. aq. NaHCOsolution. The aqueous layer was acidified with 1N HCl solution to adjust the pH to 2 3. The resulting aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 2 . The organic layers were combined and dried over MgSO. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as solid 4.8 g 83 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 6.93 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 4.10 d J 9.5 Hz 1H 3.62 s 3H 3.41 s 2H 1.39 s 9H 1.33 s 3H 1.27 s 3H MS ESI m z 266.0 M 55 .

To a solution of R 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 2 methoxy 2 oxoethyl thio 3 methylbutanoic acid 0.19 g 0.58 mmol in DMF 4 mL was added HATU 0.24 g 0.62 mmol at ice bath temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 10 min followed by addition of a solution of benzyl S 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxo 1 2S 4R 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 4 S 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl butan 2 yl carbamate Compound A 0.35 g 0.44 mmol in DMF 2 mL and NMM 0.08 mL 0.71 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 4 h. The reaction mixture was poured into a separatory funnel containing EtOAc and brine. The organic layer was separated and washed with sat. aq. NaHCOsolution and brine successively. The organic layer was dried over MgSOand filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography gradient elution from 0 to 60 EtOAc DCM to afford the title compound 0.40 g 82 as a white foam. MS ESI m z 1099.6 M H .

To a solution of methyl 2 R 4 S 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 benzyloxy carbonyl amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl 3 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methyl 4 oxobutan 2 yl thio acetate 0.4 g 0.36 mmol in MeOH 8 mL was added Pd OH 0.20 g 0.29 mmol . The reaction mixture was evacuated and stirred under hydrogen balloon for 6 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through a CELITER pad and the pad was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a white solid 0.34 g 97 . MS ESI m z 965.5 M H .

To a solution of methyl 2 R 4 S 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl 3 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methyl 4 oxobutan 2 yl thio acetate 0.34 g 0.35 mmol in DCM 6 mL was added TFA 1.2 mL 15.6 mmol slowly. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 40 min and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was basified with sat. aq. NaHCOsolution to adjust the pH to 8 9. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 . The organic layers were combined and washed with brine dried over MgSOand filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a white solid 0.30 g 100 . MS ESI m z 865.5 M H .

To a solution of S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanoic acid 0.16 g 0.79 mmol in DMF 3 mL was added EDC 0.17 g 0.90 mmol at ice bath temperature. After 5 min HOAt 0.11 g 0.82 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 5 min followed by addition of a solution of methyl 2 R 3 amino 4 S 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl 2 methyl 4 oxobutan 2 yl thio acetate 0.31 g 0.36 mmol in DMF 4 mL and NMM 0.16 mL 1.43 mmol . The reaction mixture was then stirred at rt for 1.5 h and then diluted with EtOAc and brine. The organic layer was separated and washed with sat. aq. NaHCOsolution and brine successively. The organic layer was dried over MgSOand filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a white solid 0.42 g 95 . MS ESI m z 1235.7 M H .

To a solution of 6S 9R methyl 9 S 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 2 carbonyl 2 2 5 6 10 10 hexamethyl 4 7 dioxo 3 oxa 11 thia 5 8 diazamidecan 13 oate 0.42 g 0.34 mmol in THF 3 mL and MeOH 3 mL was added 2N LiOH solution 1.4 mL 2.80 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h and then diluted with water. The pH was adjusted to 1 2 with 1N HCl solution and the resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 . The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSOand filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a white solid 0.39 g 94 . MS ESI m z 1221.7 M H .

To a solution of 6S 9R 9 S 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 2 carbonyl 2 2 5 6 10 10 hexamethyl 4 7 dioxo 3 oxa 11 thia 5 8 diazamidecan 13 oic acid 50 mg 0.041 mmol in THF 4 mL were added di 1H imidazol 1 yl methanone 27 mg 0.16 mmol at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 1.5 h. At this point NaBH 10 mg 0.25 mmol and a few drops of water was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 30 min. To the reaction mixture was added 2 mL of water and the mixture was stirred for 20 min. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with saturated aq. NaHCOsolution and dried over MgSO. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a white solid 40 mg 81 . MS ESI m z 1207.6 M H .

The crude solid from above 40 mg 0.033 mmol was dissolved in DCM 2 mL TFA 0.5 mL 6.5 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 40 min and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC and lyophilized to afford the title compound as a white solid 35 mg 98 . MS ESI m z 1007.5 M H .

To a solution of Compound F of Example 28 80 mg 0.065 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added HATU 40 mg 0.11 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 10 min and then 2 aminoethanol 16 mg 0.26 mmol and NMM 0.014 mL 0.13 mmol were added. The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and purified by preparative HPLC to give a white solid 48 mg 58 . MS ESI m z 1264.7 M H .

To a solution of the above product 45 mg 0.036 mmol in DCM 3 mL was added HCl 4N solution in dioxane 1 mL 4.0 mmol dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 50 min. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC and then lyophilized to afford the title compound as a white solid 39 mg 84 . MS ESI m z 1064.7 M H .

The following Examples were prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 29.

A solution of TFA 20 in CHCl 1.06 mmol was added to Compound F of Example 28 13 mg 0.011 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h and then concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified by preparative HPLC to give the title compound 2.5 mg 18 as a white solid after lyophilization. MS ESI m z 1021.6 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound C of Example 22 S 2 tert butyl 3 methyl 7 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl oxy 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 3 1H dicarboxylate 3.00 g 6.83 mmol was converted to the title compound 2.78 g 98 . H NMR CDCl mixture of rotamers 7.73 7.52 m 2H 7.16 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 5.14 dd J 5.9 3.1 Hz 0.5H 4.89 4.65 m 1.5H 4.61 4.39 m 1H 3.65 3.57 m 3H 3.32 3.07 m 2H 1.52 s 6H 1.46 s 3H 1.34 s 12H . MS ESI m z 418.3 M H . Ohta M. et al. 58 1066 1076 2010 .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound A of Example 22 S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 4 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid Chem Impex 4.33 g 18.89 mmol was converted to the title compound 6.77 g 100 . MS ESI m z 359.3 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound B of Example 22 S tert butyl 4 oxo 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 3.38 g 9.43 mmol was converted to the title compound 2.82 g 61 . MS ESI m z 491.2 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 22 S tert butyl 2 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 4 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl oxy 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrole 1 carboxylate 683 mg 1.39 mmol and S 2 tert butyl 3 methyl 7 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 3 1H dicarboxylate 726 mg 1.74 mmol were converted to the title compound 730 mg 83 . MS ESI m z 632.5 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound E of Example 22 S 2 tert butyl 3 methyl 7 S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 3 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 3 1H dicarboxylate 730 mg 1.16 mmol was converted to the title compound 650 mg 89 . MS ESI m z 634.5 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound K of Example 1 S 2 tert butyl 3 methyl 7 3R 5S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 3 1H dicarboxylate 650 mg 1.03 mmol was converted to the title compound 599 mg 94 . MS ESI m z 620.5 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 1 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 3R 5S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid 60 mg 0.10 mmol and R chroman 4 amine HCl 18 mg 0.10 mmol were converted to the title compound 70 mg 97 . MS ESI m z 751.6 M H . Guijarro D. et al. J. Org. Chem. 75 5265 5270 2010 .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Compounds E F and G of Example 20 S tert butyl 7 3R 5S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 R chroman 4 ylcarbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 70 mg 0.094 mmol was converted to the title compound 29 mg 31 over 5 steps . MS ESI m z 947.7 M H .

The following Examples were prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 33.

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Example 33 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 3R 5S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid Compound F of Example 33 240 mg 0.39 mmol and S methyl 2 amino 3 phenylpropanoate HCl Aldrich 109 mg 0.50 mmol were converted to the title compound 310 mg 67 over 5 steps . MS ESI m z 1177.9 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound K of Example 1 S methyl 2 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamido 3 phenylpropanoate 290 mg 0.25 mmol was converted to the title compound 172 mg 60 . MS ESI m z 1163.9 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Example 32 S 2 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 11 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamido 3 phenylpropanoic acid 20 mg 0.017 mmol was converted to the title compound 8 mg 49 . MS ESI m z 964.6 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 1 S 2 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamido 3 phenylpropanoic acid Compound B of Example 41 25 mg 0.021 mmol and dimethylamine 1.5 mg 0.032 mmol were converted to the title compound 20 mg 78 . MS ESI m z 1191.1 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Example 32 Boc Precursor I 20 mg 0.017 mmol was converted to the title compound 5 mg 32 . MS ESI m z 990.6 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Example 42 S 2 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 7 3R 5S 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxamido 3 phenylpropanoic acid Compound B of Example 41 25 mg 0.021 mmol and morpholine Aldrich 3 mg 0.032 mmol were converted to the title compound 8 mg 37 over 2 steps . MS ESI m z 1032.7 M H .

To a 0 C. solution of S tert butyl 1 hydroxy 3 phenylpropan 2 yl carbamate Alfa Aesar 500 mg 1.99 mmol in DMF 13.0 mL was added NaH 60 in mineral oil 119 mg 2.98 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 15 min and then 2 bromoethoxy tert butyl dimethylsilane 512 L 2.39 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h and then at room temperature for 3 h. The mixture was poured into a separatory funnel containing EtOAc and sat. aq. NHCl. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organics were washed with sat. NaCl dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified using flash chromatography 40 g column gradient from 0 to 40 EtOAc hexanes over 14 min to give the title compound 124 mg 15 as a colorless oil. MS ESI m z 310.1 M H Boc .

To a solution of S tert butyl 1 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy ethoxy 3 phenylpropan 2 yl carbamate 32 mg 0.077 mmol in CHCl 1.0 mL was added HCl 4N in dioxane 0.58 mL 2.31 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h and then concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound 18 mg 100 as an off white solid. MS ESI m z 196.1 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Example 33 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 3R 5S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid Compound F of Example 33 100 mg 0.16 mmol and S 2 2 amino 3 phenylpropoxy ethanol HCl 39 mg 0.17 mmol were converted to the title compound 27 mg 17 over 6 steps . MS ESI m z 994.0 M H .

To a 1 dram vial containing S tert butyl 1 cyano 2 phenylethyl carbamate Arch 400 mg 1.62 mmol in EtOH 3.2 mL was added hydroxylamine HCl 135 mg 1.95 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. overnight and then concentrated in vacuo to give a white solid.

To half of the crude white solid from above 280 mg in trimethylorthoacetate 5.0 mL was added AcOH 0.34 mL 5.95 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 2 h then at 72 C. for 18 h and then at room temperature for 72 h. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo and purified directly using flash chromatography gradient from 0 to 30 EtOAc hexanes to give the title compound 120 mg 40 over 2 steps as a pale yellow solid. H NMR CDCl 7.30 7.19 m 3H 7.11 d J 7.0 Hz 2H 5.20 br s 1H 5.04 br s 1H 3.30 3.07 m 2H 2.59 s 3H 1.47 1.31 m 9H MS ESI m z 204.2 M H Boc .

A solution of TFA 20 in CHCl 3.0 mL 7.91 mmol was added to S tert butyl 1 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 2 phenylethyl carbamate 120 mg 0.40 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then concentrated in vacuo and azeotroped from PhMe 2 to give the title compound 124 mg 99 as a tan solid. MS ESI m z 204.0 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Example 33 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 3R 5S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid Compound F of Example 33 60 mg 0.10 mmol and S 1 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 2 phenylethanamine TFA 31 mg 0.10 mmol were converted to the title compound 34 mg 33 over 6 steps . MS ESI m z 1001.7 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound B of Example 22 S 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 4 oxopyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylate Aldrich 700 mg 2.88 mmol was converted to the title compound 820 mg 76 . MS ESI m z 275.9 M H Boc .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Example 22 S 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 4 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl oxy 1H pyrrole 1 2 2H 5H dicarboxylate 200 mg 0.53 mmol and S tert butyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 7 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate Compound C of Example 22 284 mg 0.53 mmol were converted to the title compound. MS ESI m z 1030.8 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound K of Example 1 2S 4R methyl 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylate 301 mg 0.29 mmol was converted to the title compound 282 mg 95 . MS ESI m z 1016.7 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 1 2S 4R 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid 282 mg 0.28 mmol and S methyl 2 amino 3 phenylpropanoate HCl 90 mg 0.42 mmol were converted to the title compound 310 mg 95 . MS ESI m z 1177.8 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound K of Example 1 S methyl 2 2S 4R 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamido 3 phenylpropanoate 310 mg 0.26 mmol was converted to the title compound 291 mg 95 . MS ESI m z 1016.7 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 1 S 2 2S 4R 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamido 3 phenylpropanoic acid 50 mg 0.043 mmol and ammonia 210 L 0.086 mmol 0.4N in THF were converted to the title compound 33 mg 66 . MS ESI m z 1163.7 M H .

To a solution of Boc Precursor I 33 mg 0.028 mmol in CHCl 1.5 mL was added TFA 0.5 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h and then concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified using preparative HPLC to give the title compound 15 mg 55 as a white solid after lyophilization. MS ESI m z 962.6 M H .

The following Examples were prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 46.

The following Examples were prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 46.

To a solution of acetic acid 93 L 1.62 mmol in PhMe 2.0 mL was added EtN 226 L 1.624 mmol . S tert Butyl 1 cyano 2 phenylethyl carbamate 100 mg 0.41 mmol was then added to the mixture followed by NaN 106 mg 1.62 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 2 h and then filtered rinsing with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and purified using preparative HPLC to give the title compound 100 mg 85 as a white solid after lyophilization. H NMR CDCl 7.37 7.20 m 3H 7.12 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 5.56 br s 1H 5.30 d J 6.2 Hz 1H 3.35 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 1.51 1.17 m 9H MS ESI m z 290.2 M H .

To a solution of S tert butyl 2 phenyl 1 1H tetrazol 5 yl ethyl carbamate 50 mg 0.17 mmol in CHCl 1.5 mL was added TFA 0.5 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then concentrated in vacuo and used without purification in the subsequent step. MS ESI m z 190.1 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those for the preparation of Compounds F and G of Example 46 S 2 2S 4R 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamido 3 phenylpropanoic acid Compound D of Example 46 30 mg 0.030 mmol and S 2 phenyl 1 1H tetrazol 5 yl ethanamine TFA 17 mg 0.059 mmol were converted to the title compound 10 mg 33 over 2 steps . MS ESI m z 987.8 M H .

To S methyl 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 phenylpropanoate Aldrich 300 mg 1.07 mmol in MeOH 5.4 mL was added hydrazine hydrate 170 L 3.44 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature overnight and then concentrated in vacuo. The residue was triturated with hexanes 2 and then from a minimal amount of 2 3 hexanes MeOH 2 to give the title compound 195 mg 65 as a white solid. H NMR CDCl 7.41 7.25 m 3H 7.20 d J 6.8 Hz 2H 4.39 4.21 m 1H 3.07 d J 7.0 Hz 2H 1.42 s 9H MS ESI m z 280.3 M H .

To S tert butyl 1 hydrazinyl 1 oxo 3 phenylpropan 2 yl carbamate 120 mg 0.43 mmol in PhMe 4.3 mL was added triethyl orthoacetate 396 L 2.15 mmol and AcOH 443 L 7.73 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at 80 C. for 2 h then concentrated in vacuo and used in the subsequent step without purification. MS ESI m z 304.3 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound B of Example 78 S tert butyl 1 5 methyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl 2 phenylethyl carbamate 130 mg 0.43 mmol was converted to the title compound 45 mg 52 over 2 steps after preparative HPLC. H NMR CDCl 7.38 7.14 m 1H 4.43 dd J 8.4 5.5 Hz 1H 3.27 dd J 13.6 5.3 Hz 1H 3.04 dd J 13.6 8.4 Hz 1H 2.53 s 3H MS ESI m z 204.2 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those for the preparation of Compounds F and G of Example 46 S 2 2S 4R 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamido 3 phenylpropanoic acid Compound D of Example 46 50 mg 0.049 mmol and S 1 5 methyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl 2 phenylethanamine 10 mg 0.049 mmol were converted to the title compound 26 mg 53 over 2 steps . MS ESI m z 1001.8 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those for the preparation of Compounds F and G of Example 46 S 2 2S 4R 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamido 3 phenylpropanoic acid Compound D of Example 46 45 mg 0.044 mmol and S 1 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 2 phenylethanamine TFA Compound B of Example 45 15 mg 0.049 mmol were converted to the title compound 23 mg 49 over 2 steps . MS ESI m z 1002.5 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 1 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 phenylpropanoic acid Aldrich 355 mg 1.34 mmol and prop 2 yn 1 amine Combi Blocks 86 L 1.34 mmol were converted to the title compound 401 mg 99 . H NMR CDCl 7.39 7.16 m 5H 6.01 br s 1H 4.97 br s 1H 4.33 d J 7.0 Hz 1H 4.07 3.84 m 2H 3.08 d J 6.8 Hz 2H 2.20 t J 2.5 Hz 1H 1.47 1.33 m 9H MS ESI m z 303.3 M H .

To a solution of S tert butyl 1 oxo 3 phenyl 1 prop 2 yn 1 ylamino propan 2 yl carbamate 95 mg 0.31 mmol in MeCN 1.6 mL was added gold III chloride 9.5 mg 0.031 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. overnight and then purified directly using flash chromatography gradient from 0 to 100 EtOAc hexanes to give the title compound 69 mg 73 as a colorless oil. . H NMR CDCl 7.37 7.17 m 3H 7.05 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 6.63 s 1H 5.12 br s 2H 3.33 3.01 m 2H 2.27 d J 1.1 Hz 3H 1.49 1.34 m 9H MS ESI m z 303.3 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound B of Example 78 S tert Butyl 1 5 methyloxazol 2 yl 2 phenylethyl carbamate 69 mg 0.23 mmol was converted to the title compound and used without purification in the subsequent step. MS ESI m z 203.1 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those for the preparation of Compounds F and G of Example 46 S 2 2S 4R 1 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 S 2 S 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propanamido 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl carbamoyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamido 3 phenylpropanoic acid Compound D of Example 46 45 mg 0.044 mmol and S 1 5 methyloxazol 2 yl 2 phenylethanamine TFA 15 mg 0.049 mmol were converted to the title compound 19 mg 40 over 2 steps . MS ESI m z 1001.1 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound D of Example 22 S 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 4 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl oxy 1H pyrrole 1 2 2H 5H dicarboxylate 585 mg 1.56 mmol and S 2 tert butyl 3 methyl 7 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 3 1H dicarboxylate 650 mg 1.56 mmol were converted to the title compound 563 mg 70 . MS ESI m z 517.4 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound C of Example 20 S 2 tert butyl 3 methyl 7 5 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 methoxycarbonyl 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 3 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 3 1H dicarboxylate 563 mg 1.09 mmol was converted to the title compound 500 mg 88 . MS ESIm z 519.5 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound K of Example 1 3S 2 tert butyl 3 methyl 7 5S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 methoxycarbonyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 3 1H dicarboxylate 500 mg 0.96 mmol was converted to the title compound 450 mg 95 . MS ESI m z 491.4 M H .

Following a procedure analogous to that for the synthesis of Compound F of Example 20 S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 3R 5S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 carboxypyrrolidin 3 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid 100 mg 0.20 mmol and S methyl 2 amino 3 naphthalen 2 yl propanoate HCl 135 mg 0.51 mmol were converted to the title compound 135 mg 72 . MS ESI m z 913.7 M H .

Following procedures analogous to those described for the preparation of Compounds E F and G of Example 20 S tert Butyl 7 3R 5S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 S 1 methoxy 3 naphthalen 2 yl 1 oxopropan 2 yl carbamoyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 S 1 methoxy 3 naphthalen 2 yl 1 oxopropan 2 yl carbamoyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinoline 2 1H carboxylate 100 mg 0.20 mmol was converted to the title compound. MS ESI m z 1109.8 M H .

The following Examples were prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 82.

The title compound was prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 24 substituting S 2 3S 5S 7S adamantan 1 yl 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino acetic acid Chem Impex for S 2 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl amino 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl acetic acid. MS ESI m z 1024.7 M H .

The following Examples were prepared according to the procedures described for the synthesis of Example 1.

Exemplary compounds were tested for inhibition of XIAP BIR3 and XIAP BIR2 3 activity. Experimental procedures and results are provided below.

Assays were performed in black flat bottom 384 well plates. The final assay volume was 50 L prepared from additions of His BIR3 241 356 XIAP fluorescein labeled SMAC peptide and test compounds in assay buffer consisting of 20 mM Sodium Phosphate 1 mM EDTA 50 mM NaCl 50 g ml BSA and 0.05 PLURONIC F68. The reaction was incubated at room temperature for 60 minutes following which 10 l of mouse anti 6 His terbium labeled Fab Medarex Cis bio was added to the reaction 40 l for an additional 30 minute incubation. The HTRF signal ratio of fluorescence intensities at emission wavelengths for fluorescein acceptor 520 nm and terbium donor 615 nm the 520 615 ratio generated by the reaction was then measured on the Envision Plate Reader. Inhibition data were calculated from the 520 615 ratio generated by the no protein control reactions for 100 inhibition and vehicle only reactions for 0 inhibition. The final concentration of reagents in the assay was 1 nM N His BIR3 241 356 XIAP 5 nM fluorescein labeled SMAC peptide 0.25 nM anti His Tb Fab and 0.1 DMSO. Dose response curves were generated to determine the concentration required for inhibiting 50 of the HTRF signal IC . Compounds were dissolved at 3 mM in dimethylsulfoxide DMSO and evaluated at eleven serially diluted concentrations. ICand Kvalues were derived by non linear regression analysis.

volume was 50 L prepared from additions of His BIR2 3 125 356 C202A C213G XIAP fluorescein labeled dimeric SMAC peptide and test compounds in assay buffer consisting of 20 mM Sodium Phosphate 1 mM EDTA 50 mM NaCl 50 g ml BSA and 0.05 PLURONIC F68. The reaction was incubated at room temperature for 60 minutes following which 10 l of mouse anti 6 His Tb IgG Medarex Cis bio was added to the reaction 401 for an additional 30 minute incubation. The HTRF signal ratio of fluorescence intensities at emission wavelengths for fluorescein acceptor 520 nm and terbium donor 615 nm the 520 615 ratio generated by the reaction was then measured on the Envision Plate Reader. Inhibition data were calculated from the 520 615 ratio generated by the no protein control reactions for 100 inhibition and vehicle only reactions for 0 inhibition. The final concentration of reagents in the assay was 0.5 nM N His BIR2 3 125 356 C202A C213G XIAP 20 nM fluorescein labeled dimeric SMAC peptide 0.25 nM anti His Tb Fab and 0.1 DMSO. Dose response curves were generated to determine the concentration required for inhibiting 50 of the HTRF signal IC . Compounds were dissolved at 3 mM in dimethylsulfoxide DMSO and evaluated at eleven serially diluted concentrations. ICand Kvalues were derived by non linear regression analysis.

