---

title: Method and system for iteratively testing and repairing an array of memory cells
abstract: A memory system includes an array of memory cells and a repair module. Multiple memory cells in the array are redundant to other memory cells in the array. The repair module iteratively tests the array. During the iterative testing of the array, the repair module, during each test of the array, (i) identifies one or more defective memory cells in the array, if any, and (ii) in response to one or more defective memory cells being identified during the test, respectively replaces the one or more defective memory cells with one or more memory cells that are redundant to other memory cells in the array. The repair module performs the iterative testing of the array until (i) the repair module does not detect a defective memory cell or (ii) no memory cells of the memory cells that are redundant remain available for replacement of a defective memory cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08615688&OS=08615688&RS=08615688
owner: Marvell Israel (M.I.S.L) Ltd.
number: 08615688
owner_city: Yokneam
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130415
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 113 401 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 423 839 filed on May 23 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 869 308 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 949 908 filed on Oct. 9 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 829 072 filed on Oct. 11 2006. The entire disclosures of the applications referenced above are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to memory devices and more particularly to repairing memory locations within memory devices.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors to the extent the work is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description that may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure.

Semiconductor memory devices such as random access memory RAM dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM electrically programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and or flash memory include an integrated circuit IC that stores data and or code. In certain applications loss of any of the data may require a manufacturer and or end user to replace the memory which may be costly.

Referring now to a memory control module may control read write operations to memory . The memory includes memory banks . . . and collectively referred to as memory banks . Each memory bank includes address rows . . . and referred to collectively as address rows and address columns . . . and collectively referred to as address columns . Data bits are stored in the memory according to specific address rows and address columns in each memory bank . Various methods are used to correct defects and improve memory yield. One method includes adding redundant address locations to the memory .

Referring now to a memory repair device may correct defects in the memory . The memory repair device may be internal or external to a system that includes the memory . The memory repair device may be implemented in a built in self test BIST that may include hardware or automatic test equipment ATE that may include software. The memory repair device may command a memory repair sub circuit that may substitute redundant rows and or columns of the memory for defective address rows and or columns.

The memory includes memory banks address rows and address columns . Each memory bank includes redundant address rows . . . and referred to collectively as redundant address rows and or redundant address columns . . . and referred to collectively as redundant address columns . Alternatively the memory may include redundant memory banks that may be substituted for defective banks.

Initially the bit locations provided by the redundant address rows and address columns are not associated with a particular memory address. The memory repair sub circuit programs the redundant address rows and address columns to correspond to a specific memory address when a bit location associated with a memory address is found to be defective. The memory repair sub circuit may use hard repair or soft repair operations. Both hard and soft repair operations result in a redundant memory portion being used to store the data that would have otherwise been stored in the defective memory portion. Basically the defective memory portion is remapped to the redundant memory portion either reversibly with a soft repair operation or irreversibly with a hard repair operation.

For a hard repair operation the memory repair sub circuit may include fuses . . . and referred to collectively as fuses e.g. laser fuses and or electrical fuses . The memory repair device is connected to the memory repair sub circuit to determine a defective bit location associated with a memory address. The memory repair device blows one or more of the fuses i.e. applies a laser or electrical current to the fuses to form a new data path to the redundant location. Thereafter data that is directed to be stored at the memory address may be stored in the redundant location. In this manner an originally defective memory device may be repaired and also may be suitable to be used and or sold.

In an exemplary memory repair sub circuit is shown in further detail. Signals . . . and referred to collectively as signals are indicative of memory addresses of defective memory locations. For example the signals may be indicative of a defective address row. The memory repair sub circuit receives the signals and a repair signal from the memory repair device . The signals are input to a redundant row decoder . The redundant row decoder communicates with a redundant row according to statuses of the fuses . As described above the memory repair device may be used to blow one or more of the fuses to program the redundant row decoder to associate a particular memory address with the redundant row . A similar approach may be used for redundant columns.

As mentioned the above described memory hard repair operation results in a permanent re association of the memory address with the redundant location. The memory repair operation permanently changes the electrical behavior of the fuse element. In the case of a laser fuse a high energy laser beam cuts through the fuse i.e. a conductive fuse element is rendered non conductive as a result of the memory repair operation . In the case of an electrical fuse an electric pulse or pulses are applied to the fuse element. As a result the fuse element changes from conductive to non conductive or from non conductive to conductive. A hard repair is performed once during manufacturing test and is permanent for the lifetime of the memory.

For a soft repair the memory repair device remaps data paths by storing values in a remapping register of the memory repair sub circuit so that data is stored in memory according to the remapping register. For example the remapping register causes certain logic gates to be turned on and other logic gates to be turned off similar to blowing fuses in the hard repair operation. The registers however may be reset and soft repairs may not permanently alter data paths to the memory .

A memory system is provided and includes an array of memory cells and a repair module. Multiple memory cells in the array of memory cells are redundant to other memory cells in the array of memory cells. The repair module is configured to iteratively test the array of memory cells. During the iterative testing of the array of memory cells the repair module is configured to during each test of the array of memory cells i identify one or more defective memory cells in the array of memory cells if any and ii in response to one or more defective memory cells being identified during the test respectively replace the one or more defective memory cells with one or more memory cells that are redundant to other memory cells in the array of memory cells. The repair module is configured to perform the iterative testing of the array of memory cells until i the repair module does not detect a defective memory cell or ii no memory cells of the memory cells that are redundant to other memory cells in the array of memory cells remain available for replacement of a defective memory cell.

A method is provided and includes iteratively testing an array of memory cells. Multiple memory cells in the array of memory cells are redundant to other memory cells in the array of memory cells. The iterative testing of the array of memory cells includes during each test of the array of memory cells i identifying one or more defective memory cells in the array of memory cells if any and ii in response to one or more defective memory cells being identified during the test respectively replacing the one or more defective memory cells with one or more of the plurality of memory cells that are redundant to other memory cells in the array of memory cells. The iterative testing of the array of memory cells is performed until i a defective memory cell is no longer detected or ii no memory cells of the memory cells that are redundant to other memory cells in the array of memory cells remain available for replacement of a defective memory cell.

A non transitory computer readable medium configured to store a computer program. The computer program includes instructions to cause a programmable processor to iteratively test an array of memory cells. Memory cells in the array of memory cells are redundant to other memory cells in the array of memory cells. The instructions to cause the programmable processor to iteratively test the array of memory cells includes instructions to cause the programmable processor to during each test of the array of memory cells i identify one or more defective memory cells in the array of memory cells if any and ii in response to one or more defective memory cells being identified during the test respectively replace the one or more defective memory cells with one or more of the plurality of memory cells that are redundant to other memory cells in the array of memory cells. The instructions to cause the programmable processor to iteratively test the array of memory cells includes instructions to cause the programmable processor to perform the iterative testing of the array of memory cells until i a defective memory cell is no longer detected or ii no memory cells of the plurality of memory cells that are redundant to other memory cells in the array of memory cells remain available for replacement of a defective memory cell.

A memory system is provided and includes an array of memory cells and a repair module. The array of memory cells includes redundant memory cells. The redundant memory cells include at least two of i a redundant row of memory cells and ii a redundant column of memory cells. The repair module is configured to i identify at least two of a row and a column of the array of memory cells having non operational memory cells and ii substitute the at least two of the row and the column of the array of memory cells having non operational memory cells with selected rows or columns of the redundant memory cells based on X predetermined sequences of substitutions where X is an integer greater than 1. The repair module is configured to detect a failure in the array of memory cells that cannot be repaired using the X predetermined sequences of substitutions and use an alternative repair sequence to repair the non operational memory cells based on the detection of the failure.

In other features a self repairing memory system includes memory including memory elements and redundant memory elements. The memory elements include a plurality of memory cells. A memory repair module identifies non operational memory cells and selects at least one memory element including the non operational memory cells. A first repair sub circuit soft repairs the memory by substituting the selected memory elements with the redundant memory elements. A second repair sub circuit hard repairs the memory based on the substitutions.

In other features the second repair sub circuit hard repairs the memory when substantially all of the non operational memory cells identified by the memory repair module are repaired by the substitutions. The first memory repair sub circuit includes registers and the second memory repair sub circuit includes at least one of fuses and anti fuses. At least one of the first memory repair sub circuit the second memory repair sub circuit the memory repair module and the memory control module is integrated with the memory in an integrated circuit. The memory repair module selects one of the memory elements for a respective one of the non operational memory cells from a group consisting of at least two of a row a column a block and a bank.

In other features the memory repair module includes a built in system test BIST module. The memory repair module tests the redundant elements for failures prior to the soft repairs. Prior to the hard repairs at least one of the redundant elements is used to store data that implements at least one of the soft repairs. The at least one redundant element stores data that is used to implement the soft repairs during boot up of the memory. The memory repair module selects one of the memory elements for each of the non operational memory cells from a group consisting of a row a column a block and a bank based on a first predetermined combination.

In other features the first predetermined combination includes selecting two rows and two columns of the redundant memory elements to replace two rows and two columns of the memory elements. The memory repair module selects a second predetermined combination when the first predetermined combination fails to repair the non operational memory cells. When the second predetermined combination is selected the memory repair module does not retain repair data of prior substitutions relating to the first predetermined combination.

In other features a memory system includes memory including memory elements and redundant memory elements. The memory elements include a plurality of memory cells. A memory repair module identifies non operational memory cells and selects at least one memory element including the non operational memory cells based on X different combinations of substitutions. The memory repair module substitutes one of the redundant elements for one of the selected memory elements for each of the substitutions. The memory repair module determines that one of the X different combinations of substitutions repairs the memory. X is a number greater than 1.

In other features a first memory repair sub circuit soft repairs the memory based on the substitutions. A second memory repair sub circuit hard repairs the memory based on one of the X different combinations. The first memory repair sub circuit includes a plurality of registers and the second memory repair sub circuit includes at least one of a plurality of fuses and a plurality of anti fuses. The first and second memory repair sub circuits are integrated with the memory in an integrated circuit.

In other features the memory repair module selects one of the memory elements for a respective one of the non operational memory cells from a group consisting of at least two of a row a column a block and a bank. The memory repair module includes a built in system test BIST . The memory repair module tests one of the redundant elements for failures prior to the substitutions. The memory repair module substitutes the selected memory elements with one of the redundant memory elements for each of the substitutions until the memory repair module determines that the X different combinations fail to repair the memory.

In other features the memory repair module tests the memory according to each of the X different combinations successively. For each successive one of the X different combinations the memory repair module does not retain data of prior substitutions of the redundant memory elements. The memory repair module substitutes the one of the redundant elements for the one of the selected memory elements for each of the substitutions until the memory repair module determines that one of the X different combinations of substitutions repairs the memory.

In other features a method for self repairing a memory system includes identifying non operational memory cells of memory elements. Memory includes the memory elements and redundant memory elements. The memory elements include a plurality of memory cells including the non operational cells. The method also includes selecting at least one memory element including the non operational memory cells. The method also includes soft repairing the memory by substituting the selected memory elements with the redundant memory elements. The method also includes hard repairing the memory based on the substitutions.

In other features the method includes hard repairing the memory when substantially all of the non operational memory cells identified by the memory repair module are repaired by the substitutions. The method also includes hard repairing the memory by operating at least one of fuses and anti fuses. The method also includes selecting one of the memory elements for a respective one of the non operational memory cells from a group consisting of at least two of a row a column a block and a bank. The method also includes testing the redundant elements for failures prior to the soft repairing. The method also includes storing data that implements at least one of the soft repairs in at least one of the redundant elements.

In other features the method includes storing data that is used to implement the soft repairing during boot up of the memory. The method also includes selecting one of the memory elements for each of the non operational memory cells from a group consisting of a row a column a block and a bank based on a first predetermined combination. The first predetermined combination includes selecting two rows and two columns of the redundant memory elements to replace two rows and two columns of the memory elements. The method also includes selecting a second predetermined combination when the first predetermined combination fails to repair the non operational memory cells.

In other features a method includes identifying non operational memory cells. The method also includes selecting at least one memory element including the non operational memory cells based on X different combinations of substitutions. The method also includes substituting one of a plurality of redundant elements for one of the selected memory elements for each of the substitutions. The method also includes determining that one of the X different combinations of substitutions repairs the memory. X is a number greater than 1.

In other features the method includes soft repairing the memory based on the substitutions. The method also includes hard repairing the memory based on the one of the X different combinations. The memory elements are selected from a group consisting of at least two of a row a column a block and a bank. The method also includes testing one of the redundant elements for failures prior to the substitutions. The method also includes substituting the selected memory elements with one of the redundant memory elements for each of the substitutions until the X different combinations fail to repair the memory. The method also includes testing the memory according to each of the X different combinations successively.

In other features the method includes substituting one of the redundant elements for the one of the selected memory elements for each of the substitutions. The substitutions continue until determining that one of the X different combinations of substitutions repairs the memory.

In other features a self repairing memory system includes storage means for storing data including memory elements and redundant memory elements. The memory elements include a plurality of memory cells. The system also includes memory repair means for identifying non operational memory cells and for selecting at least one memory element including the non operational memory cells. The system also includes first repair means for soft repairing the memory by substituting the selected memory elements with the redundant memory elements. The system also includes second repair means for hard repairing the memory based on the substitutions.

In other features the second repair means hard repairs the memory when substantially all of the non operational memory cells identified by the memory repair means are repaired by the substitutions. The first memory repair means includes registers and the second memory repair means includes at least one of fuses and anti fuses. The memory repair means selects one of the memory elements for a respective one of the non operational memory cells from a group consisting of at least two of a row a column a block and a bank. The memory repair means includes a built in system test BIST .

In other features the memory repair means tests the redundant elements for failures prior to the soft repairs. Prior to the hard repairs at least one of the redundant elements is used to store data that implements at least one of the soft repairs. At least one redundant element stores data that is used to implement the soft repairs during boot up of the storage means. The memory repair means selects one of the memory elements for each of the non operational memory cells from a group consisting of a row a column a block and a bank based on a first predetermined combination. The first predetermined combination includes selecting two rows and two columns of the redundant memory elements to replace two rows and two columns of the memory elements.

In other features the memory repair means selects a second predetermined combination when the first predetermined combination fails to repair the non operational memory cells. When the second predetermined combination is selected the memory repair means does not retain repair data of prior substitutions relating to the first predetermined combination.

In other features a memory system includes storage means for storing data including memory elements and redundant memory element. The memory elements include a plurality of cells. The system also includes memory repair means for identifying non operational memory cells and for selecting at least one memory element including the non operational memory cells based on X different combinations of substitutions. The memory repair means substitutes one of the redundant elements for one of the selected memory elements for each of the substitutions. The memory repair means determines that one of the X different combinations of substitutions repairs the memory. X is a number greater than 1.

In other features a memory system includes first memory repair means for soft repairing the storage means based on the substitutions. The system also includes second memory repair means for hard repairing the storage means based on the one of the X different combinations. The first memory repair means includes a plurality of registers and the second memory repair means includes at least one of a plurality of fuses and a plurality of anti fuses. The memory repair means selects one of the memory elements for a respective one of the non operational memory cells from a group consisting of at least two of a row a column a block and a bank.

In other features the memory repair means includes a built in system test BIST . The memory repair means tests one of the redundant elements for failures prior to the substitutions. The memory repair means substitutes the selected memory elements with one of the redundant memory elements for each of the substitutions until the memory repair means determines that the X different combinations fail to repair the memory. The memory repair means tests the memory according to each of the X different combinations successively.

In other features for each successive one of the X different combinations the memory repair means does not retain data of prior substitutions of the redundant memory elements. The memory repair means substitutes one of the redundant elements for one of the selected memory elements for each of the substitutions. The substitutions are continued until the memory repair means determines that one of the X different combinations of substitutions repairs the storage means.

In other features a self repairing memory system includes memory including memory elements and redundant memory elements. The memory elements include a plurality of memory cells. A memory repair module identifies faulty memory cells and selects at least one memory element including the faulty memory cells. A repair sub circuit includes reversibly programmable circuits that repair the memory by substituting the at least one memory element with the redundant memory elements.

In other features the memory repair module selects one of the memory elements for each of the faulty memory cells from a group consisting of a row a column a block and a bank based on a first predetermined combination. The first predetermined combination includes selecting two rows and two columns of the redundant memory elements to replace two rows and two columns of the memory elements.

In other features the memory repair module selects a second predetermined combination when the first predetermined combination fails to repair the faulty memory cells. When the second predetermined combination is selected the memory repair module does not retain repair data of prior substitutions relating to the first predetermined combination. The memory repair module cycles through a plurality of predetermined combinations to repair the faulty memory cells. The repair sub circuit repairs the memory when substantially all of the faulty memory cells identified by the memory repair module are repaired by the substitutions.

In other features the memory repair sub circuit includes reversible fuses. The reversible fuses include flash based fuse circuits. The memory repair module selects one of the memory elements for a respective one of the faulty memory cells from a group consisting of at least two of a row a column a block and a bank. The memory repair module comprises a built in system test BIST module.

In other features a self repairing memory system includes means for storing data including memory elements and redundant memory elements. The memory elements include a plurality of memory cells. The system also includes memory repair means for identifying faulty memory cells and selecting at least one memory element including the faulty memory cells. Repair sub means are included for reversibly programming circuits that repair the means for storing data by substituting at least one memory element with the redundant memory elements.

In other features the memory repair means selects one of the memory elements for each of the faulty memory cells from a group consisting of a row a column a block and a bank based on a first predetermined combination. The first predetermined combination includes selecting two rows and two columns of the redundant memory elements to replace two rows and two columns of the memory elements.

In other features the memory repair means selects a second predetermined combination when the first predetermined combination fails to repair the faulty memory cells. When the second predetermined combination is selected the memory repair means does not retain repair data of prior substitutions relating to the first predetermined combination. The memory repair means cycles through a plurality of predetermined combinations to repair the faulty memory cells. The repair sub means repairs the means for storing data when substantially all of the faulty memory cells identified by the memory repair means are repaired by the substitutions.

In other features the memory repair sub means includes reversible fuses. The reversible fuses include flash based fuse circuits. The memory repair means selects one of the memory elements for a respective one of the faulty memory cells from a group consisting of at least two of a row a column a block and a bank. The memory repair means comprises built in system test BIST means for testing a system.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating the preferred embodiment of the disclosure are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure.

The following description is merely exemplary in nature and is in no way intended to limit the disclosure its application or uses. For purposes of clarity the same reference numbers will be used in the drawings to identify similar elements. As used herein the phrase at least one of A B and C should be construed to mean a logical A or B or C using a non exclusive logical or. It should be understood that steps within a method may be executed in different order without altering the principles of the present disclosure.

As used herein the term module refers to an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group and memory that execute one or more software or firmware programs a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality.

According to the present disclosure memory includes redundant and non redundant data storage memory elements. The data storage elements may be cells rows columns banks and or blocks of the memory. A memory control module may detect defects in the memory and trigger a memory repair operation. A memory repair module may test the memory and determine what repairs if any will repair the memory.

The memory repair module may be a modified built in system test BIST that repairs memory via an on the fly process that includes both soft and hard repair operations. When a failure occurs in a read write from the memory the memory repair module may respond as if the failed cell or cells are defective. The memory repair module may remap the memory based on one or more different repair combinations that may be sets of sequences of repair operations.

Each of the repair operation sequences may include the same number of predetermined repair operations that may relate to the number of redundant elements. Each of the repair operations may include substituting a defective element of the memory with a redundant element. The memory repair module may reallocate the redundant elements for each repair combination set.

As mentioned the number of repair combinations may relate to the number of redundant elements. For example if there are two redundant rows and two redundant columns for a square memory array the number of repair combinations may be determined according to C 2 2 2 2 1 2 3 4 1 2 1 2 6. Therefore 6 different combinations of repair substitutions may be used to repair the memory. In other words for this example there are optimally 6 ways combinations of substituting 4 redundant rows columns for 4 non redundant rows columns in response to memory failures. To further illustrate if there are four redundant rows and four redundant columns C 4 4 4 4 70. Therefore there may be 70 different combinations that may be used to repair the memory.

The memory repair module may control soft repair operations to test each substitution while forming the new memory map. The soft repair operations may include simulating a hard repair operation by mapping a plurality of registers. The memory control module may read write from memory according to the soft repairs so that the memory repair module may determine that one of the sequences has successfully repaired the memory. If the memory is repairable the memory repair module may then control hard repair operations to permanently remap the memory according to the sequence that repairs the memory. In other words the memory repair module may then blow fuses for a hard repair of the memory. In this manner memory defects failures may be repaired during manufacturing after manufacturing and or after sale and use.

Referring now to a system for self repair of memory is shown. The memory includes redundant memory elements as described above. The system further includes a memory repair module and a memory control module .

The memory repair module may control soft and hard repair operations when either or both the memory repair module and the memory control module detects a failure. The memory repair module controls a first memory repair sub circuit for soft repair operations and a second memory repair sub circuit which may be a fuse box for hard repair operations.

Alternatively hard and soft repair operations may be included in a single hybrid module. Further some or all of the hard and soft repair operations may be conducted through programmable reversible fuses such as flash based fuse circuits that may be written to blown multiple times. For example the memory repair module may determine a repair necessary in a soft repair operation using the reversible fuses and then and then program the reversible fuses in a hard repair operation.

The memory repair sub circuit may set one or more registers not shown to for example 0 and 1 to cause appropriate remapped data paths to be activated. The fuse box may include fuse elements as described in . The memory may be integrated with any or all of the memory repair module the memory repair sub circuit and the fuse box .

The memory control module may invoke the memory repair module to repair memory failures. Alternatively the memory repair module may automatically detect and repair the memory failures at any time during and or after manufacturing of the system . Therefore external memory repair through for example automatic test equipment ATE may not be required. The memory repair module may execute detect and or repair functions conditionally at power up and or when triggered by a user.

Referring now to the memory repair module may include memory condition testing control hard repair command soft repair command and combination index sub modules . The testing control sub module may analyze data read from the memory to determine whether the data read from respective addresses in the memory matches the data originally written to those respective addresses. The testing control sub module may determine that a failure has been detected in the memory when data read from a particular address in the memory does not match the data written to that address. The testing control sub module may determine a soft repair map for the memory .

The soft repair sub module may control the memory repair sub circuit based on the soft repair map. When the testing control sub module determines that the memory is repaired the hard repair sub module may control the hard repair fuse box . The hard repair fuse box may include non programmable and or programmable fuses such as flash based fuse circuits.

The hard repair fuse box may blow electrical fuses as necessary to re associate memory addresses with the redundant memory elements based on the soft repair map. Alternatively the hard repair fuse box may include anti fuses that form connections as necessary to re associate memory addresses with the redundant memory elements . Fuses would not need to be blown if the fuses used are programmable reversible. The memory condition sub module generates repaired not repairable signals that are received in the memory control module . The combination index sub module includes operations for a plurality of solution combinations for repairing the memory . Each of the combinations includes a sequence of repair operations and may be used by the testing control sub module for testing of the memory .

For soft repair operations when the memory control module detects a memory failure the memory repair module may store the memory failure information in the memory repair sub circuit . Further the memory repair module may locate an alternative memory location i.e. a redundant memory element . The memory repair module may then store the redundant memory element information in the memory repair sub circuit .

The information stored in the memory repair sub circuit may be lost when the system is powered down. When the system is subsequently powered on the memory repair module may again detect memory failures locate redundant memory elements and store the information in the memory repair sub circuit . The memory repair module may repeat this procedure at each power up. Alternatively the memory repair sub circuit may retain the information by storing it in embedded memory for example flash memory or by blowing reversible fuses.

Referring now to A and B as an illustrative example memory includes an array of A rows and B columns A B cells and may have X redundant rows and Y redundant columns. The redundant rows and columns may be collectively referred to as redundant memory elements as in . includes eight rows . . . and eight columns . . . and two redundant rows and two redundant columns . The two redundant rows and two redundant columns are merely exemplary. There may be only six placement solution combinations for data within the four redundant elements as seen in the chart of and discussed above. The memory repair module may use any or all of combinations as illustrated for soft repairs on the memory . Each of the combinations may include a sequence for which substitutions will be made for the soft repairs. As mentioned the combination index sub module includes information relating to the solution combinations. An alternative repair sequence may be used if the memory repair module detects long term failure in the memory that may not be repaired by one of the combinations in . The alternative repair sequence may include replacing rows and columns in orders other than those illustrated in .

In a first failure may occur at the intersection of row and column . The memory repair module may set the memory repair sub circuit according to the first combination. The memory repair module may thus substitute redundant row for row undergoing testing in response to the failure . In other words when the memory is written read cell at the intersection of row and column is used in place of the cell having the failure . Because the entire row containing the failure is replaced other failures that may be present in the row may also be repaired by this substitution operation.

Referring now to the memory repair module continues to evaluate read data from the memory until a second failure is encountered at for example the intersection of row and column . The memory repair module may substitute redundant row for row in response to the second failure . Therefore when the memory is written read cell at the intersection of row and column is used in place of the cell having the failure .

Referring now to the memory repair module continues to evaluate read data from the memory until a third failure is encountered at for example the intersection of row and column . The memory repair module may substitute a redundant column for the column in response to the third failure . Therefore when the memory is written read cell at the intersection of row and column is used in place of the cell having the failure .

Referring now to the memory repair module continues to evaluate read data from the memory until a fourth failure is encountered at for example the intersection of row and column . The memory repair module may substitute a redundant column for the column in response to the fourth failure . Therefore when the memory is written read cell at the intersection of row and column is used in place of the cell having the failure .

Referring now to the memory repair module may determine that the first combination of the chart will not resolve failures in the memory based on discovery of a fifth failure . The memory repair module may then initialize the memory repair database and use the second combination that includes according to the chart of sequentially replacing a row a column a row and a column.

Referring now to the memory repair module may test the memory from the start of the array and replace failures according to the second combination. The memory repair module may thus substitute redundant row for row undergoing testing in response to the first failure . In other words when the memory is written read cell at the intersection of row and column is used in place of the cell having the failure .

Referring now to a second failure may be detected at the intersection of row and column . The memory repair module may replace the column with a redundant column so that the cell at the intersection of row and column substitutes for the cell including the failure . Further for the third and fourth failures the memory repair module may replace a row and a column respectively. If third and or fourth failures are not found the memory repair module may determine that the second combination is the correct combination for repairing the memory.

The memory repair module may determine that the second combination of the chart will not resolve failures in the memory based on discovery of a fifth failure. The memory repair module may then initialize the memory repair sub circuit and use the third combination. The memory repair module may replace a row a column a column and a row respectively according to the chart of .

The memory repair module may likewise initialize the memory repair sub circuit and use combinations four through six in response to successive failures found when redundant elements are utilized. The memory repair module may determine that the memory is not repairable if none of the combinations resolve all memory failures. In the present example there may be six options for redundancy placement thus a maximum of only six runs may be made to test and repair the memory . In contrast previous memory repair methods used heuristic repair algorithms that were limited to single repair path and would not have reset a memory repair sub circuit for subsequent combinations solutions.

The memory repair module may generate a partial log for failures occurring during soft fixing operations and while testing. If repair operations will not use all repair resources the unused redundant rows columns of the memory may store information regarding the valid redundant row column to be used during the functional life of the memory during boot up power up sequences. The memory repair module may repair the memory during a power up sequence with soft repair operations and interrupt the system or any start up operations if the memory is not fixed or not fixable.

Alternatively the memory repair module may only include one combination. For example memory may include two memory blanks blocks and one redundant memory bank block instead of the previously discussed row column solutions . The memory repair module may use the combination to soft repair a first failure in the memory banks by replacing the respective memory bank including the failure. If subsequent failures are found the memory may be determined to be unrepairable. Otherwise the memory is hard repaired according to the combination. This example may also be extended for memory that includes only redundant rows or only redundant columns where there may be only one repair combination.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates steps for operating a memory repair module. Control starts in step and in step the memory repair module tests the memory for failures. In step the memory repair module detects a first failure. The memory repair module then sequentially repairs the memory according to repair combinations.

In step the current repair combination which may be a first second third etc. repair combination for example combinations as in is used to repair the failure. In other words the combination includes a number of sequences for which redundant memory elements substitute for non redundant memory elements. There may be one or more combinations of substitutions.

In step if the memory repair module does not detect another failure the memory repair module may assume the memory is repaired in step . If another failure is detected in step then in step the memory repair module determines whether all substitutions of redundant elements for the current combination have been made according to a repair substitution method for example one or more rows of the chart of . If step is false the next failure is repaired according to the current combination in step and control returns to step where the next failure of the current combination is used. All options of a repair substitution method are tried in steps and until the memory is repaired or failed. If failed then a repair substitution method for a next combination is tried in step .

If step is true and if all combinations have been tried in step and there still is a failure then the memory repair module determines that the memory is not repairable in step . If step is false substitutions made for previous combinations may be initialized. Further testing may return to the start of the memory and the substitution recipe of the next sequential combination may be used to repair the memory in step .

Referring now to steps performed by the memory control module to implement a memory repair method are shown. The memory repair method starts in step where the memory control module reads writes from the memory . The memory repair module may monitor the memory for failures. If a first failure is found a testing method starts according to the first combination found in chart . If a failure is detected in step the failure number from the chart is incremented in step and the memory is repaired according to the failure number and the combination number in step . However if the failure number is greater than the number of possible substitutions failure numbers in the current combination in step the combination number is incremented by one in step . If in step the combination number is greater than the total number of combinations the array is found not repairable in step . Otherwise in step the memory array is repaired according to the current fail number and combination number and the memory control module starts testing again according to step .

Following step testing continues in step . If no failure is detected in step and step determines that testing operations are not completed testing continues in step . If step determines testing is completed step determines whether a hard repair is required. If step is true the memory is hard repaired in step . The memory is tested in step . If the memory passes testing in step the memory is determined to be repaired in step . If step is false step determines that the memory is not repairable. For example a system fault flag may be generated to notify the system and or user that the system has a non recoverable memory failure condition.

Referring now to steps performed by the memory control module to implement a memory repair method using a hybrid repair module are shown. The memory repair method starts in step where the memory control module reads writes from the memory . The memory repair module may monitor the memory for failures. If a first failure is found a testing method starts according to the first combination found in chart . If a failure is detected in step the failure number from the chart is incremented in step and the memory is repaired according to the failure number and the combination number in step . The memory repairs may be conducted through use of reversible fuses. However if the failure number is greater than the number of possible substitutions failure numbers in the current combination in step the combination number is incremented by one in step . If in step the combination number is greater than the total number of combinations the array is found not repairable in step . Otherwise in step the memory array is repaired according to the current fail number and combination number. Following step testing continues in step . If no failure is detected in step and step determines that testing operations are not completed testing continues in step . If step determines testing is completed the memory may be retested in step . If the memory passes testing in step the memory is determined to be repaired in step . If step is false step determines that the memory is not repairable.

The present disclosure can be applied to any memory technology that implements addressed memory locations. For example the present invention can be applied to memory technologies including but not limited to random access memory RAM dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM magnetic RAM MRAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM electrically programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and or flash memory as well as any derivative of the above memory technologies such as fast cycle RAM FCRAM .

Referring now to various exemplary implementations incorporating the teachings of the present disclosure are shown. Referring now to the teachings of the disclosure can be implemented in nonvolatile memory of a hard disk drive HDD . The HDD includes a hard disk assembly HDA and an HDD printed circuit board PCB . The HDA may include a magnetic medium such as one or more platters that store data and a read write device . The read write device may be arranged on an actuator arm and may read and write data on the magnetic medium . Additionally the HDA includes a spindle motor that rotates the magnetic medium and a voice coil motor VCM that actuates the actuator arm . A preamplifier device amplifies signals generated by the read write device during read operations and provides signals to the read write device during write operations.

The HDD PCB includes a read write channel module hereinafter read channel a hard disk controller HDC module a buffer the nonvolatile memory a processor and a spindle VCM driver module . The read channel processes data received from and transmitted to the preamplifier device . The HDC module controls components of the HDA and communicates with an external device not shown via an I O interface . The external device may include a computer a multimedia device a mobile computing device etc. The I O interface may include wireline and or wireless communication links.

The HDC module may receive data from the HDA the read channel the buffer nonvolatile memory the processor the spindle VCM driver module and or the I O interface . The processor may process the data including encoding decoding filtering and or formatting. The processed data may be output to the HDA the read channel the buffer nonvolatile memory the processor the spindle VCM driver module and or the I O interface .

The HDC module may use the buffer and or nonvolatile memory to store data related to the control and operation of the HDD . The buffer may include DRAM SDRAM etc. The nonvolatile memory may include flash memory including NAND and NOR flash memory phase change memory magnetic RAM or multi state memory in which each memory cell has more than two states. The spindle VCM driver module controls the spindle motor and the VCM . The HDD PCB includes a power supply that provides power to the components of the HDD .

Referring now to the teachings of the disclosure can be implemented in nonvolatile memory of a DVD drive or of a CD drive not shown . The DVD drive includes a DVD PCB and a DVD assembly DVDA . The DVD PCB includes a DVD control module a buffer the nonvolatile memory a processor a spindle FM feed motor driver module an analog front end module a write strategy module and a DSP module .

The DVD control module controls components of the DVDA and communicates with an external device not shown via an I O interface . The external device may include a computer a multimedia device a mobile computing device etc. The I O interface may include wireline and or wireless communication links.

The DVD control module may receive data from the buffer nonvolatile memory the processor the spindle FM driver module the analog front end module the write strategy module the DSP module and or the I O interface . The processor may process the data including encoding decoding filtering and or formatting. The DSP module performs signal processing such as video and or audio coding decoding. The processed data may be output to the buffer nonvolatile memory the processor the spindle FM driver module the analog front end module the write strategy module the DSP module and or the I O interface .

The DVD control module may use the buffer and or nonvolatile memory to store data related to the control and operation of the DVD drive . The buffer may include DRAM SDRAM etc. The nonvolatile memory may include flash memory including NAND and NOR flash memory phase change memory magnetic RAM or multi state memory in which each memory cell has more than two states. The DVD PCB includes a power supply that provides power to the components of the DVD drive .

The DVDA may include a preamplifier device a laser driver and an optical device which may be an optical read write ORW device or an optical read only OR device. A spindle motor rotates an optical storage medium and a feed motor actuates the optical device relative to the optical storage medium .

When reading data from the optical storage medium the laser driver provides a read power to the optical device . The optical device detects data from the optical storage medium and transmits the data to the preamplifier device . The analog front end module receives data from the preamplifier device and performs such functions as filtering and A D conversion. To write to the optical storage medium the write strategy module transmits power level and timing data to the laser driver . The laser driver controls the optical device to write data to the optical storage medium .

Referring now to the teachings of the disclosure can be implemented in memory of a high definition television HDTV . The HDTV includes an HDTV control module a display a power supply the memory a storage device a network interface and an external interface . If the network interface includes a wireless local area network interface an antenna not shown may be included.

The HDTV can receive input signals from the network interface and or the external interface which can send and receive data via cable broadband Internet and or satellite. The HDTV control module may process the input signals including encoding decoding filtering and or formatting and generate output signals. The output signals may be communicated to one or more of the display memory the storage device the network interface and the external interface .

Memory may include random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory phase change memory or multi state memory in which each memory cell has more than two states. The storage device may include an optical storage drive such as a DVD drive and or a hard disk drive HDD . The HDTV control module communicates externally via the network interface and or the external interface . The power supply provides power to the components of the HDTV .

Referring now to the teachings of the disclosure may be implemented in memory of a vehicle . The vehicle may include a vehicle control system a power supply the memory a storage device and a network interface . If the network interface includes a wireless local area network interface an antenna not shown may be included. The vehicle control system may be a powertrain control system a body control system an entertainment control system an anti lock braking system ABS a navigation system a telematics system a lane departure system an adaptive cruise control system etc.

The vehicle control system may communicate with one or more sensors and generate one or more output signals . The sensors may include temperature sensors acceleration sensors pressure sensors rotational sensors airflow sensors etc. The output signals may control engine operating parameters transmission operating parameters suspension parameters etc.

The power supply provides power to the components of the vehicle . The vehicle control system may store data in memory and or the storage device . Memory may include random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory phase change memory or multi state memory in which each memory cell has more than two states. The storage device may include an optical storage drive such as a DVD drive and or a hard disk drive HDD . The vehicle control system may communicate externally using the network interface .

Referring now to the teachings of the disclosure can be implemented in memory of a cellular phone . The cellular phone includes a phone control module a power supply the memory a storage device and a cellular network interface . The cellular phone may include a network interface a microphone an audio output such as a speaker and or output jack a display and a user input device such as a keypad and or pointing device. If the network interface includes a wireless local area network interface an antenna not shown may be included.

The phone control module may receive input signals from the cellular network interface the network interface the microphone and or the user input device . The phone control module may process signals including encoding decoding filtering and or formatting and generate output signals. The output signals may be communicated to one or more of memory the storage device the cellular network interface the network interface and the audio output .

Memory may include random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory phase change memory or multi state memory in which each memory cell has more than two states. The storage device may include an optical storage drive such as a DVD drive and or a hard disk drive HDD . The power supply provides power to the components of the cellular phone .

Referring now to the teachings of the disclosure can be implemented in memory of a set top box . The set top box includes a set top control module a display a power supply the memory a storage device and a network interface . If the network interface includes a wireless local area network interface an antenna not shown may be included.

The set top control module may receive input signals from the network interface and an external interface which can send and receive data via cable broadband Internet and or satellite. The set top control module may process signals including encoding decoding filtering and or formatting and generate output signals. The output signals may include audio and or video signals in standard and or high definition formats. The output signals may be communicated to the network interface and or to the display . The display may include a television a projector and or a monitor.

The power supply provides power to the components of the set top box . Memory may include random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory phase change memory or multi state memory in which each memory cell has more than two states. The storage device may include an optical storage drive such as a DVD drive and or a hard disk drive HDD .

Referring now to the teachings of the disclosure can be implemented in memory of a mobile device . The mobile device may include a mobile device control module a power supply the memory a storage device a network interface and an external interface . If the network interface includes a wireless local area network interface an antenna not shown may be included.

The mobile device control module may receive input signals from the network interface and or the external interface . The external interface may include USB infrared and or Ethernet. The input signals may include compressed audio and or video and may be compliant with the MP3 format. Additionally the mobile device control module may receive input from a user input such as a keypad touchpad or individual buttons. The mobile device control module may process input signals including encoding decoding filtering and or formatting and generate output signals.

The mobile device control module may output audio signals to an audio output and video signals to a display . The audio output may include a speaker and or an output jack. The display may present a graphical user interface which may include menus icons etc. The power supply provides power to the components of the mobile device . Memory may include random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory phase change memory or multi state memory in which each memory cell has more than two states. The storage device may include an optical storage drive such as a DVD drive and or a hard disk drive HDD . The mobile device may include a personal digital assistant a media player a laptop computer a gaming console or other mobile computing device.

Those skilled in the art can now appreciate from the foregoing description that the broad teachings of the disclosure can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore while this disclosure includes particular examples the true scope of the disclosure should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings the specification and the following claims.

