---

title: Swaged-on, external electrode anchoring connection
abstract: A swaged-on fitting, for anchoring exterior wires to a cable, includes an outer ring and a split inner ring. The inner ring has an inside grooved pattern, which is substantially an angled cross-hatching of shallow grooves. The two grooved halves of the inner ring are placed under the bare ends of the wires and pressed on either side of the cable jacket such that the pattern contacts the jacket. The outer ring is slid over the wires, so it overlaps the inner halves. The fitting is swaged-on, locking in the wires between the rings and embossing the jacket with the cross-hatching pattern of the inner ring, without puncturing the jacket. The grooves on the inner ring thus grip the cable jacket, preventing rotational and translational movement of the wires on the jacket while maintaining the structural integrity of the jacket.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09373898&OS=09373898&RS=09373898
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09373898
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130415
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties.

The present invention relates generally to a swaged on fitting and in particular to an anchoring swaged on fitting for mounting a coaxial layer of conductive wires on a cable jacket where the swaged on fitting has an inside recessed grooved pattern that secures the swaged on fitting on the cable without piercing the cable jacket.

While there are many types of connecting fittings for coaxial cables most of these fittings function to connect similar sizes of coaxial cables split the cable prior to connecting or are designed to change the size of a pair of connecting cables. There is a dearth of art that reads on adding an outer layer to a contiguous coaxial cable. Adding the outer layer typically requires a termination fitting where a first coaxial cable is terminated and then attached to a second coaxial cable with the outer layer.

Applicant is unaware of any art that reads on a swaged on fitting that doesn t destructively distort the cable jacket when an outer ring of the fitting is crimped or swaged such that the fitting bites into the cable jacket. Jacket distortion becomes even more necessary when the jacket is made of an inherently low friction material such as polytetrafluoroethylene. For example the static friction of steel on Teflon a DuPont product is 0.04 while the static friction of steel on steel is 0.80 a factor of 20 according to the Engineering Toolbox web site see http www.engineeringtoolbox.com friction coefficients d 778.html .

The invented anchoring swaged on fitting in one variation is a fitting for appending various elements such as sensors and wires to a cable without damaging the cable and in particular the cable s jacket where damage is evidenced by piercing. Exemplary of an appended element is an outer conductive layer to a contiguous coaxial cable without cutting or significantly distorting the cable which at a minimum will make the cable much less resistant to corrosion.

An example of a contiguous coaxial cable is a magnetic influence minesweeping cable. The cable is used to create a magnetic field that simulates the magnetic signature of a ship. The cable has a pair of electrodes in contact with salt water. Salt water is conductive and thusly can act as a leg in an electrical circuit when conducting a magnetic sweep. Salt water is also corrosive and it is especially corrosive to electrodes where the electrode is in contact with an electrical current salt water sun and air. With open loop sweeps the electrodes are in contact with at least three salt water current and air.

Typically the electrodes are the components of the magnetic influence minesweeper coaxial cable that corrode the fastest and an object of the invention is to append an end of an electrode to an S cable. The S cable is a coaxial cable that usually extends substantially the entire length of the magnetic influence minesweeper coaxial cable. The S cable is typically about 575 feet long so the tension on the cable is high during minesweeping operations. The S cable has a core axial strength member which is typically wrapped with a separator then an inner conductor and on the outside of the S cable there is an insulating jacket. The jacket is typically composed of polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE which has excellent corrosion resistance and a very low coefficient of friction. There are few materials that will adhere to it.

The anchoring swaged on fitting includes at least two swaged on elements. The first element is an outer ring that is an open ended cylinder where the outer ring has a top edge a bottom edge a first length and a first curvature. Curvature is defined as the inverse of the radius and it is smaller for a larger circle than a smaller circle. Curvature is similar to diameter but doesn t require a complete circle to calculate. The second element is an inner ring that substantially is an open ended smaller cylinder with a second length and a second curvature. Because the inner ring is smaller it has greater curvature. The inner ring has an inside grooved pattern and when swaged on the inside grooved pattern comes into direct contact with the cable jacket. The inside grooved pattern enables the swaged on fitting to grip the jacket with sufficient resistance to prevent translational movement and rotational movement of the outer conductive layer appended to the coaxial cable via the fitting.

As previously recited the outer conductive layer is a layer of a plurality of wires that are coaxially layered on the S cable. The exposed bare wires are the electrode. Evidence of slippage of the fitting on the cable is manifest if the electrode starts twisting rotational or bird caging translational or rotational as each layer of wires is helically wound . As will become clear anchoring is not only a function of how tightly the jacket is gripped but the way it is gripped. Anchoring is achieved by moving from a gripping mechanism that is a substantially frictional grip to a substantially interference fit.

Another aspect of the invention is that the inner ring has several configurations that make it easier to install. Most notably it has been found that the inner ring can be assembled on the cable as an inner ring that has been longitudinally split. Exemplary of one variation is a split inner ring that is a pair of inside grooved inner halves where each inside grooved inner half is one half of an open ended longitudinally split cylinder. Each inside grooved inner half has an inside grooved pattern. Each inside grooved inner half has a second length and each inside grooved inner half has a second curvature. The advantage of the split inner ring is that in assembling the split inner ring does not have to be slid over potentially thicker portions of the cable and each inside grooved inner half can have a larger curvature such that the assembly of halves has a diameter very similar to the diameter of the cable. The possibility exists to split the inner ring into smaller fractions such as thirds and quarters but the cost and installation of smaller fractions usually do not justify using smaller fractions.

Another aspect of the invention is that the mechanical grip to the jacket does not pierce the jacket. If the jacket is pierced the inner conductor will be exposed directly to salt water substantially resulting in the destruction of the cable which is carrying an electrical current due to corrosion.

A novel an anchoring swaged on fitting is herein disclosed. The anchoring swaged on fitting enables wires particularly a layer of wires to be appended to a jacket covering a rope or a cable. In the illustrated embodiments the layer of wires are bare having no insulation and are functioning as an electrode on a minesweeping cable.

The anchoring swaged on fitting includes an outer ring as shown in which is a metallic open ended cylinder having a first length a first inside diameter and a first curvature . The fitting also includes an inner ring as shown in . The inner ring is a metallic open ended smaller cylinder with an inside pattern . The inner ring has a second length a second inside diameter and a second curvature .

In another variation as illustrated in the inner ring can be slit longitudinally forming a pair of inside grooved inner halves . Each inside grooved inner half is one half of an open ended longitudinally split cylinder. The inside grooved pattern is the same pattern as shown illustrated in described in more detail below. The second length and the second curvature as shown in remain unchanged by the splitting and when the halves are assembled into the cylinder the second diameter is slightly reduced by the kerf of the cut. The cut of the blade or one kerf can be minimized by using a thin wire Electronic Discharge Machine EDM . The EDM reduces each kerf to about 15 mils so a one inch 1.000 inside diameter cylinder is reduced to about 0.997 inches in diameter.

In another variation as illustrated in the inner ring may be slit longitudinally into thirds forming a set of three inside grooved inner thirds . Each inside grooved inner third is one third of the open ended longitudinally split cylinder . Again the assembled dimensions are only slightly smaller.

The inside grooved pattern of all variations discussed above is shown in . The pattern is substantially a recessed grooved cross hatching where the hatching is circumferentially oblong. All the grooves are helical about half are right handed helixes R and the other half are left handed helixes L. Any given groove is parallel to half of the other grooves but not orthogonal to the other half so that the un etched spaces between the grooves are approximately diamond shaped see in . Looking down on a cylinder half one can see that a lead angle which is the geometric complement of a helix angle is more open than the helix angle about 55 degrees versus about 35 degrees in the illustrated embodiment and hence the hatching is circumferentially oblong. An exemplary pattern is shown in detail in . The right handed helical grooves R and the left handed helical grooves L define the geometry of un etched space. The included lead angle of the un etched space is composed of the sum of two lead angles 55 54 109 degrees . The included helix angle of the un etched space is composed of the sum of two helix angles 35 36 71 degrees . The total of all included angles is about 360 degrees assuming that the un etched space is planar. If the un etched space is not planar then allowances must be made for the curvature.

If the helix angle is about 45 degrees then the un etched spaces between the grooves are approximately square shaped and are not circumferentially oblong. If the helix angle exceeds 45 degrees then the un etched spaces are longitudinally oblong. The right helix angle R and the left helix angle L need not necessarily be identical but if they are not the resulting diamond will be skewed toward the larger helix angle. Note that the specific angles discussed above and illustrated in are representative of only one embodiment of the invention and should be construed as limiting the scope of the invention as claimed. This pattern is selected to seal the anchoring swaged on fitting onto the jacket of the cable and thus provide translational and rotational resistance to movement about the cable.

In the preferred embodiment none of the grooves run either purely circumferentially or longitudinally. This is by design because a purely longitudinal groove could potentially allow water to seep through the longitudinal groove especially when the cable is submerged and therefore under high external water pressure. The invented pattern wherein the helix angle of the diamond is more closed provides that there is a lower density of diamonds circumferentially than longitudinally or stated alternatively the circumferential components of the grooves are closer together than the longitudinal components of the grooves and the net effect is that there is better occlusion of water and higher resistance to translational movement. Resistance to rotational movement is enhanced by the diamond like hatching. Also the invented pattern recognizes that the length of the fitting can be extended albeit making the cable stiffer and potentially more difficult to wind. However however the diameters of the fitting components are essentially fixed by the diameter of the cable. The pattern provides an appropriately balanced resistance against rotational and translational forces. Furthermore the angled cross hatching follows the contour of the inner ring so that the resulting relatively large un etched diamond shaped spaces are also curved.

Referring now to the outer ring has edges that are flared. Following the swaging process the edge opposite the terminated end of the wires will be slightly flared to provide wire stress relief. During the swaging process the diameter of the outer ring is reduced. The swaging process also deforms the soft inner conductor of the S cable but maintains the overall roundness of the cable. The inner ring is somewhat crimped like the lip of a metal can to the outer ring .

All of the elements of are illustrated in the cutaway view of . The fitting anchors electrode to the S cable . The typical S cable comprises a strength member an inner conductor that is nominally a soft aluminum and a PTFE jacket . As illustrated inner ring covers a portion of the jacket of cable in the vicinity of the ends of the wires that are to be anchored to the cable. And the ends of wires are disposed between the outer ring and inner ring .

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

