---

title: Information processor and system that associate job and user information based on job identifier
abstract: An information processor is connected via a network to an output apparatus and configured to control a job outputting process of the output apparatus. The information processor includes a job identifier generation part configured to generate a job identifier for uniquely identifying a job input from a terminal apparatus connected via the network to the information processor, an information storage part configured to store information that correlates the job identifier and the input job, a job identifier transmission part configured to transmit the job identifier correlated with the input job to the terminal apparatus, and a job association part configured to associate user information for uniquely identifying an authenticated user received from the output apparatus with the input job based on a job association request including the user information and the job identifier and on the information stored in the information storage part.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348994&OS=09348994&RS=09348994
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09348994
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130828
---
The present application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority of Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 196063 filed on Sep. 6 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

There has been a known technique of securely outputting information in response to an information output request from a mobile environment such as a portable information terminal using an output apparatus located closest to the requestor in a network information output system that processes an information output request issued from an entity whose logical and physical locations vary such as a portable information terminal. For example see Japanese Laid Open Patent Application No. 2001 256010. 

According to an aspect of the present invention an information processor is connected via a network to an output apparatus and is configured to control a job outputting process of the output apparatus. The information processor includes a job identifier generation part configured to generate a job identifier for uniquely identifying a job input from a terminal apparatus connected via the network to the information processor an information storage part configured to store information that correlates the job identifier and the input job a job identifier transmission part configured to transmit the job identifier correlated with the input job to the terminal apparatus and a job association part configured to associate user information for uniquely identifying an authenticated user received from the output apparatus with the input job based on a job association request including the user information and the job identifier and on the information stored in the information storage part.

According to an aspect of the present invention a system includes an output apparatus and an information processor connected via a network to the output apparatus and configured to control a job outputting process of the output apparatus. The information processor includes a job identifier generation part configured to generate a job identifier for uniquely identifying a job input from a terminal apparatus connected via the network to the information processor an information storage part configured to store information that correlates the job identifier and the input job a job identifier transmission part configured to transmit the job identifier correlated with the input job to the terminal apparatus and a job association part configured to associate user information for uniquely identifying an authenticated user received from the output apparatus with the input job based on a job association request including the user information and the job identifier and on the information stored in the information storage part. The output apparatus includes an authentication part configured to authenticate the user and a job association request part configured to make the job association request to the information processor using the user information and the job identifier.

According to an aspect of the present invention a non transitory computer readable recording medium has a program recorded thereon wherein the program instructs a computer processor to implement an information processor connected via a network to an output apparatus and configured to control a job outputting process of the output apparatus. The information processor includes a job identifier generation part configured to generate a job identifier for uniquely identifying a job input from a terminal apparatus connected via the network to the information processor an information storage part configured to store information that correlates the job identifier and the input job a job identifier transmission part configured to transmit the job identifier correlated with the input job to the terminal apparatus and a job association part configured to associate user information for uniquely identifying an authenticated user received from the output apparatus with the input job based on a job association request including the user information and the job identifier and on the information stored in the information storage part.

The object and advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and not restrictive of the invention.

For example there is a system where a print job received from a terminal apparatus such as a personal computer PC is stored in a print server or the like on a public network such as the Internet instead of being immediately subjected to printing and where a print job selected by a user from a list of stored print jobs is printed with an image forming apparatus such as a multifunction machine after the user logs on. In such a system in light of information security user authentication is commonly executed when a print job stored in the print server is printed with the image forming apparatus. Authentication information including a user ID and a password is used for user authentication.

In the case where user authentication is managed in an authentication server or the like on a private network such as a corporate network a network inside a corporation it is desired to use link up with the user authentication management executed on the private network in a print server or the like on a public network as well.

Making a copy of the authentication information of user authentication management executed on a private network and using the copy on a public network such as the Internet however takes time and effort and is not preferable in terms of security. On the other hand in the case of making no copy of the authentication information of user authentication management executed on a private network there is a problem in that the function of inputting a print job from a public network such as the Internet to a print server or the like is restricted thus impairing convenience.

According to an aspect of the present invention an information processor and a system are provided that may use user authentication management executed on a private network without impairing convenience and a recording medium having a program recorded thereon is provided where the program causes a computer processor to implement the information processor.

The network N is used by an unspecified number of users. Access from the network N to the network N side is restricted. A print controller an authentication controller an information terminal and a client terminal are connected to the network N.

The print controller which is an output controller is for example a print server or the like. The print controller is implemented by one or more information processors computer systems . The print controller may be implemented by a common server operating system OS such as Linux registered trademark or Windows registered trademark .

The print controller uses protocols such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and the Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS . The print controller receives print jobs input from the information terminal the client terminal a client terminal and an information terminal . Furthermore as described below the print controller receives a job association request from an image forming apparatus and associates an input print job with a user. Furthermore the print controller receives a print job obtaining request from the image forming apparatus and provides the image forming apparatus with a requested print job. The print controller may link up with an authentication apparatus through the Security Assertion Markup Language SAML .

The authentication controller establishes a trust relationship with the authentication apparatus and controls determines whether to authorize a user to use the print controller based on the result of authentication by the authentication apparatus . The authentication controller is implemented by one or more information processors computer systems .

The information terminal is a terminal apparatus. The information terminal is connectable to the network N. The information terminal includes a radio communications part that performs radio communications or a wired communication part that performs wired communications. The information terminal is a portable terminal that may be carried around by a user such as a smartphone a cellular phone a tablet PC or a notebook PC. The information terminal may input a print job to the print controller using a dedicated application by uploading the print job using a Web UI or by transmitting the print job using electronic mail.

The client terminal is a terminal apparatus. The client terminal may be implemented by an information processor computer system that includes a common OS such as Windows registered trademark . The client terminal is connectable to the network N. The client terminal includes a radio communications part that performs radio communications or a wired communication part that performs wired communications.

The client terminal is a portable terminal that may be carried around by a user such as a smartphone a cellular phone a tablet PC or a notebook PC. The client terminal may input a print job to the print controller using a dedicated printer driver port monitor by uploading the print job using a Web UI or by transmitting the print job using electronic mail.

The network N is a private network that exists inside the firewall FW. The network N is an environment to which access from the network N is restricted. The client terminal the information terminal the image forming apparatus and the authentication apparatus are connected to the network N.

The client terminal is the same as the client terminal . That is the client terminals and may be provided on either the private network N or the public network N. The information terminal is the same as the information terminal . That is the information terminals and may be provided on either the private network N or the public network N.

The image forming apparatus is an apparatus having a printing function such as a printer or a multifunction machine for example a multifunction peripheral MFP . The image forming apparatus includes a radio communications part that performs radio communications or a wired communication part that performs wired communications. As described below the image forming apparatus causes the print controller to associate an input print job and a user with each other by making a job association request to the print controller . Furthermore the image forming apparatus makes a request to obtain a print job a print job obtaining request to the print controller and executes a print job received from the print controller . The image forming apparatus may link up with an authentication service inside or outside the image forming apparatus .

The authentication apparatus is for example an authentication server or the like. The authentication server may be implemented by a common server operating system OS such as Linux registered trademark or Windows registered trademark . The authentication apparatus may be a server that includes for example a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP or Active Directory product or be an application server that operates in cooperation with the product. Furthermore there may be a federation server in the case of using SAML. The authentication server may be inside the image forming apparatus .

A user inputs a print job to the print controller from the information terminal or the client terminal of the public network N. At this point the information terminal or the client terminal from which the print job has been input obtains a job identifier associated with the print job from the print controller . The job identifier may be implemented by for example a PIN code. After inputting the print job the user logs on to the image forming apparatus and thereafter inputs the job identifier obtained at the time of inputting the print job to the image forming apparatus . The image forming apparatus may cause the print controller to associate the input print job and user information with each other by making a job association request including the user information and the job identifier to the print controller .

Then after logging on to the image forming apparatus the user gives an instruction to display a list of print jobs. The image forming apparatus obtains a list of print jobs including the print job input from the information terminal or the client terminal of the public network N from the print controller and displays the obtained list of print jobs. The user selects a print job that the user wishes to print from the list of print jobs and gives a print instruction to print the selected print job. The image forming apparatus obtains from the print controller the print job for which the print instruction has been received and executes printing prints the obtained print job .

The print controller and the authentication controller of the printing system of may be implemented by being integrated into a single computer. Alternatively the print controller and the authentication controller may be implemented by being distributed between multiple computers.

The print controller the authentication controller the information terminals and the client terminals and and the authentication apparatus are implemented by for example a computer system that has a hardware configuration illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating a hardware configuration of a computer system according to this embodiment.

A computer system illustrated in includes an input device a display unit an external interface I F a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a central processing unit CPU a communications I F and a hard disk drive HDD all of which are interconnected by a bus B.

The input device which includes a keyboard and a mouse is used for a user to input operation signals. The display unit which includes a display displays the results of processing by the computer system .

The communications I F is an interface that connects the computer system to the network N or N. It is possible for the computer system to perform data communications through the communications I F .

The HDD is a nonvolatile storage device that stores programs and data. Examples of the stored programs and data include an operating system OS which is basic software that performs overall control of the computer system and application software that provides various kinds of functions on the OS. The HDD manages the stored programs and data using a predetermined file system and or database DB .

The external I F is an interface with external apparatuses. Examples of external apparatuses include a recording medium . It is possible for the computer system to read and or write to the recording medium through the external I F . Examples of the recording medium includes flexible disks compact disk CD s digital versatile disk DVD s SD memory cards and universal serial bus USB memories.

The ROM is a nonvolatile semiconductor memory storage device capable of retaining stored programs or data even when power is turned off. The ROM contains programs and data of the basic input output system BIOS an OS configuration and a network configuration which are executed at the time of starting the computer system . The RAM is a volatile semiconductor memory storage device that temporarily retains programs and data.

The CPU is a processor that implements overall control and functions of the computer system by reading programs and data from storage devices such as the ROM and the HDD into the RAM and executing processes.

The print controller the authentication controller the information terminals and the client terminals and and the authentication apparatus according to this embodiment may implement various kinds of processes described below based on the above described hardware configuration of the computer system .

The controller includes a CPU a RAM a ROM a nonvolatile RAM NVRAM and an HDD . The ROM contains various kinds of programs and data. The RAM temporarily retains programs and data. The NVRAM contains for example configuration information. The HDD contains various kinds of programs and data.

The CPU implements overall control and functions of the image forming apparatus by reading programs data configuration information etc. from the ROM the NVRAM and the HDD into the RAM and executing processes.

The operations panel includes an input part that receives a user s input and a display part that performs displaying. The external I F is an interface with external apparatuses. Examples of external apparatuses include a recording medium . It is possible for the image forming apparatus to read and or write to the recording medium through the external I F . Examples of the recording medium include IC cards flexible disks CDs DVDs SD memory cards and USE memories.

The communications I F is an interface that connects the image forming apparatus to the network N. It is possible for the image forming apparatus to perform data communications through the communications I F .

The printer is a printing unit that prints print data on a recording medium such as paper. The scanner is a reading unit that reads image data from an original material such as a document. The image forming apparatus according to this embodiment may implement various kinds of processes described below based on the above described hardware configuration.

The print controller according to this embodiment is implemented by for example process blocks illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating process blocks of a print controller according to this embodiment.

The print controller implements an attribute storage part a job storage part a job identifier generation part a job association part a temporary job storage part a job processing part and a communications part by executing a program.

The attribute storage part stores below described attribute information. The job storage part stores a print job associated with a user that is a print job whose user is determined . The job identifier generation part generates a job identifier. The job association part associates a user who has logged on with a job identifier.

The temporary job storage part stores a print job not associated with a user that is a print job whose user is not determined and a job identifier in association with each other. The job processing part performs processing related to a print job. The communications part performs communications with the information terminal the client terminal the image forming apparatus etc.

The image forming apparatus according to this embodiment is implemented by for example process blocks illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating process blocks of an image forming apparatus according to this embodiment. The image forming apparatus implements a printing part a link authentication part a communications part and an input output part by executing a program.

The printing part performs printing. The link authentication part logs on to the print controller side based on authentication on the private network N and its authentication information such as user information . The communications part performs communications with the print controller the information terminal the client terminal etc. The input output part receives a user s input and displays information to a user.

The above described process blocks may also be implemented by a function incorporated into the image forming apparatus a function using an advanced Application Programming Interface API of the image forming apparatus or a function of an external terminal attached to the image forming apparatus .

The authentication apparatus according to this embodiment is implemented by for example process blocks illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating process blocks of an authentication apparatus according to this embodiment. The authentication apparatus implements an authentication part and a communications part by executing a program. The authentication part performs requested authentication based on authentication information. The communications part performs communications with the client terminal the information terminal the image forming apparatus etc.

Job ID is information for uniquely identifying a print job. Username is information for identifying a user associated with a print job. PIN Code is information for uniquely identifying a print job associated with no user. Job Name is information for making it easy for a user to identify an input print job. Input Time is information that represents the date and time of the inputting of a print job. Size is the size of a print job. Storage Location is information that represents a location where a print job is stored. Page Duplex Simplex and Number of Copies represent examples of print settings.

For example referring to information is set in PIN Code but no information is set in Username in the records of Job ID 1 and Job ID 3 because these records are examples of a print job that is not associated with a user a print job whose user is not determined .

On the other hand information is set in Username but no information is set in PIN Code in the record of Job ID 2 because this record is an example of a print job associated with a user a print job whose user is determined . The record of Job ID 2 may keep the information set in PIN Code.

In the above description of the printing system of this embodiment by way of example a case is illustrated where the attribute storage part of the print controller stores attribute information. Alternatively however a relational database management system RDBMS or the like may be used to store attribute information.

A description is given in more detail below of processes executed by the printing system according to this embodiment.

At step S the communications part of the print controller requests the job processing part to add the received print job. At step S the job processing part requests the job identifier generation part to generate a job identifier. At step S the job identifier generation part generates a job identifier and returns the generated job identifier to the job processing part .

At step S the job processing part causes the temporary job storage part to store the received print job and the job identifier generated by the job identifier generation part in association correlation with each other. At step S the job processing part causes the attribute information of the print job including the job identifier generated by the job identifier generation part to be stored in the table of the attribute storage part as illustrated in for example.

Then at step S and step S the job processing part returns the job identifier generated by the job identifier generation part to the information terminal the client terminal or the like operated by the user through the communications part so that the user may be notified of the job identifier. The print job may be to print an application file. In the case of the application file the print controller may perform rendering on a print job stored in the temporary job storage part or perform rendering on a print job after the print job is transferred to the job storage part .

At step S the input output part transmits the received authentication information to the link authentication part and requests authentication. At step S and step S the link authentication part transmits the authentication information to the authentication apparatus through the communications part and requests authentication.

At step S the communications part of the authentication apparatus transmits the received authentication information to the authentication part and requests authentication. If authentication succeeds with the received authentication information at step S the authentication part returns the authentication result of authentication success to the communications part . If authentication fails with the received authentication information at step S the authentication part returns the authentication result of authentication failure to the communications part . The authentication result may be a ticket or the like.

Then at step S step S step S and step S the authentication result is returned from the authentication apparatus to the user operating the image forming apparatus . If the authentication result is authentication success at step S the user operates the image forming apparatus to input the job identifier reported to the user at the time of inputting the print job and makes a job association request. The input output part of the image forming apparatus receives the job identifier input by the user.

At step S and step S the input output part transmits the job identifier received from the user and user information such as a username of the successful authentication result to the print controller through the communications part and makes a job association request.

At step S the communications part of the print controller transmits the received job identifier and username to the job association part and requests job association. At step S the job association part obtains a record corresponding to a PIN code which is an example of the job identifier from the table of the attribute storage part as illustrated in .

At step S the job association part obtains a print job corresponding to the job identifier from the temporary job storage part . At step S the job association part stores the obtained print job corresponding to the job identifier in the job storage part .

At step S the job association part sets information username in Username of the record corresponding to the PIN code which is an example of the job identifier in the table of the attribute storage part illustrated in . Furthermore the job association part deletes the PIN code from the record and updates Storage Location of the record from the temporary job storage part to the job storage part .

Proceeding to step S the user operates the image forming apparatus to make a request to obtain a list of jobs a job list obtaining request . The input output part of the image forming apparatus receives the job list obtaining request from the user. At step S and step S the input output part transmits the username of the logon user the user who has logged on to the print controller through the communications part and makes a job list obtaining request.

At step S the communications part of the print controller transmits the username received from the image forming apparatus to the job processing part and makes a job list obtaining request. At step S and step S the job processing part obtains a list of print jobs that match the username of the logon user from the attribute storage part . At step S step S step S and step S the job list of the logon user is returned from the print controller to the user operating the image forming apparatus .

At step S the user operates the image forming apparatus to select a print job that the user wishes to print from the job list and gives an instruction to print the selected print job a print instruction . The input output part of the image forming apparatus receives the instruction to print the selected print job from the user.

At step S and step S the input output part transmits the username of the logon user and the job ID of the print job for which the print instruction has been received to the print controller through the communications part and makes a request to obtain the print job a print job obtaining request . At step S the communications part of the print controller transmits the username and job ID received from the image forming apparatus to the job processing part and makes a print job obtaining request. At step S the job processing part obtains the attribute information of a print job that matches the username and the job ID from the attribute storage part .

At step S and step S the job processing part obtains the print job from the job storage part based on the obtained attribute information of the print job. Then at step S step S and step S the print job for which the print instruction has been received from the logon user is returned from the print controller to the input output part of the image forming apparatus .

At step S the input output part transmits the received print job to the printing part and causes the printing part to execute printing print the print job . Furthermore at step S the print job for which the print instruction has been received from the logon user is returned to the user operating the image forming apparatus . At step S the user operates the image forming apparatus to log off.

A username a password etc. may be entered on the screen as authentication information. A user may enter for example a username a password etc. as authentication information for the authentication apparatus of the private network N on the screen and make a request to log on a logon request .

According to the printing system of the first embodiment a job identifier associated with an input print job is returned to the information terminal or the client terminal from which the print job has been input. After logging on to the image forming apparatus a user may input the job identifier to the image forming apparatus and cause the print controller to associate the input print job and user information with each other.

Thereafter the user may select a print job that the user wishes to print from a job list including the print job input from the information terminal or the client terminal of the public network N and give an instruction to print the selected print job.

According to the printing system of the first embodiment it is possible to use user authentication management performed on the private network N without impairing convenience at the time of executing a print job input from the information terminal or the client terminal of the public network N.

According to a second embodiment it is determined whether a user who has input a print job has been authenticated and the same process as in the first embodiment is executed when it is determined that the user has not been authenticated. A description of the same configuration as that of the first embodiment is omitted. The system configuration and the hardware configuration are the same as those of the first embodiment.

With respect to the software configuration a print controller is different from that of the first embodiment. is a diagram illustrating process blocks of a print controller according to this embodiment. The print controller of includes an authentication status determination part in addition to the configuration of the print controller of . The authentication status determination part determines whether a user who has input a print job has been authenticated.

With respect to processing the second embodiment is different from the first embodiment in the job inputting process.

Referring to at step S a user who has not been authenticated an unauthenticated user transmits a print job to the print controller by operating the client terminal the information terminal or the like on the private network N. At step S the communications part of the print controller requests the job processing part to add the received print job.

At step S the job processing part requests the authentication status determination part to determine an authentication status. At step S the authentication status determination part determines that the user has not been authenticated and returns a determination result to that effect to the job processing part . The process of step S through step S after the authentication status determination part returns the determination result that the user has not been authenticated to the job processing part is the same as that of step S through step S of the sequence diagram of and accordingly its description is omitted.

Referring to at step S a user operates the client terminal the information terminal or the like on the private network N to input for example a username a password etc. as authentication information for the authentication apparatus of the private network N and makes a logon request to the authentication apparatus .

At step S the communications part of the authentication apparatus transmits the received authentication information to the authentication part and requests authentication. If authentication succeeds with the received authentication information at step S the authentication part returns the authentication result of authentication success to the communications part . The following description is based on the assumption that the authentication has succeeded. Then at step S the authentication result is returned to the user from the communications part to the user operating the client terminal or the information terminal .

At step S the authenticated user operates the client terminal the information terminal or the like on the private network N to transmit a print job to the print controller . At step S the communications part of the print controller requests the job processing part to add the received print job.

At step S the job processing part requests the authentication status determination part to determine the authentication status. At step S the authentication status determination part determines that the user has been authenticated and returns a determination result to that effect to the job processing part .

At step S the job processing part stores the received print job in the job storage part . At step S the job processing part causes the attribute information of the print job to be stored in the table of the attribute storage part as illustrated in for example.

In summary the print controller executes a process as illustrated in . is a flowchart of a process executed by a print controller according to this embodiment. Referring to at step S the print controller determines whether a user who has input a print job has been authenticated.

If the user has been authenticated YES at step S at step S the print controller causes the attribute information of the print job to be stored in the table of the attribute storage part . Furthermore at step S the print controller stores the print job in the job storage part .

On the other hand if the user has not been authenticated NO at step S at step S the print controller returns a job identifier to the client terminal the information terminal or the like operated by the user. At step S the print controller causes the attribute information of the print job in the table of the attribute storage part . Furthermore at step S the print controller causes the print job and the job identifier to be associated with each other and stored in association with each other in the temporary job storage part .

According to the printing system of the second embodiment it is not required to use a job identifier when inputting a print job from the client terminal or the information terminal of the private network N thus increasing usability.

According to a third embodiment a user who has not been authenticated with authentication information is allowed to execute a print job using a PIN code. A description of the same configuration as that of the first embodiment or the second embodiment is omitted. The system configuration hardware configuration and software configuration are the same as those of the first embodiment or the second embodiment.

With respect to processing the third embodiment is different from the first and the second embodiment in the job execution process.

Referring to at step S a user operates the image forming apparatus to make a job list obtaining request. The input output part of the image forming apparatus receives the job list obtaining request from the user. At step S and step S the input output part transmits the PIN code to the print controller through the communications part and makes a job list obtaining request.

At step S the communications part of the print controller transmits the PIN code received from the image forming apparatus to the job processing part and makes a job list obtaining request. At step S and step S the job processing part obtains a job list including a print job that matches the PIN code from the attribute storage part . Then at step S step S step S and step S the job list corresponding to the PIN code is returned from the print controller to the user operating the image forming apparatus .

At step S the user operates the image forming apparatus to select a print job that the user wishes to print from the job list and gives an instruction to print the selected print job a print instruction . The input output part of the image forming apparatus receives the instruction to print the selected print job from the user. At step S and step S the input output part transmits a PIN code corresponding to the selected print job to the print controller through the communications part and makes a request to obtain the print job a print job obtaining request . At step S the communications part of the print controller transmits the PIN code received from the image forming apparatus to the job processing part and makes a print job obtaining request. At step S the job processing part obtains the attribute information of a print job that matches the PIN code from the attribute storage part .

At step S and step S the job processing part obtains the print job from the temporary job storage part based on the obtained attribute information of the print job. Then at step S step S and step S the print job that matches the PIN code is returned from the print controller to the input output part of the image forming apparatus .

At step S the input output part transmits the received print job to the printing part and causes the printing part to execute printing print the print job . Furthermore at step S the print job for which the print instruction has been received using the PIN code is returned to the user operating the image forming apparatus .

Logon may be performed by entering a username a password etc. as authentication information on the screen . Furthermore logon may be performed by entering a PIN code in place of authentication information on the screen .

According to the printing system of the third embodiment for example when a user who is not authenticated by authentication information executes a print job using a PIN code the authority of the user functions available to the user may be restricted. For example a user who is not authenticated by authentication information may be authorized to perform only monochrome printing. Furthermore the printing system of the third embodiment may also be configured to determine whether to authorize a user who is not authenticated by authentication information to execute a print job using a PIN code and or whether to restrict the authority of a user who is not authenticated by authentication information.

For example by making it possible to determine whether to authorize a user who is not authenticated by authentication information to execute a print job using a PIN code or whether to restrict the authority of a user who is not authenticated by authentication information with respect to each image forming apparatus on the image forming apparatus basis it is possible for the printing system of the third embodiment to increase a user s convenience.

Logon may be performed by entering a username a password etc. as authentication information and further entering a PIN code on the screen . According to the printing system of the third embodiment by using the screen it is possible to reduce the number of interactions communications between the image forming apparatus and the print controller so that it is possible to expect improved performance.

According to the printing system of the third embodiment a user who is not authenticated by authentication information is allowed to execute a print job using a PIN code. Accordingly improvement in a user s convenience may be expected.

The network N and the network Nare connected by a firewall FWa on the network Nside. The firewall FWa is installed at the connection of the network N and the network N and relays access from the network Nto the network N.

The network N and the network Nare connected by a firewall FWb on the network Nside. The firewall FWb is installed at the connection of the network N and the network N and relays access from the network Nto the network N.

The private network Nsuch as a corporate network includes a client terminal an information terminal an image forming apparatus and an authentication apparatus . The private network Nsuch as a corporate network includes a client terminal an information terminal an image forming apparatus and an authentication apparatus . The private networks Nand Nhave the same configuration as the configuration of the private network N of the printing system of the first embodiment. Furthermore like in the printing system of the first embodiment the information terminal and the client terminal are connected to the public network N such as the Internet.

The network N that provides a cloud service includes at least one information processor computer system that provides one or more functions using a Web application or a server side application. Such an information process implements an authentication control service a corporate management service a data management service an access control service a data storage service and a data processing service on the network N side.

The authentication control service corresponds to the authentication controller of the printing system of the first embodiment. The authentication control service controls determines whether to authorize usage of a cloud service individual services based on the result of authentication by the authentication apparatus or . The corporate management service manages corporate information and device information and controls determines whether to authorize usage of a service with respect to each service.

According to the printing system of the fourth embodiment the data management service the access control service the data storage service and the data processing service implement a printing service which corresponds to the print controller of the printing system of the first embodiment.

The data management service manages data input data data conversion requests etc. and executes processes such as transmission of a job list transmission of a job and deletion of a job responding to a logon user s requests. The data management service is implemented by a single information processor or two or more information processors in cooperation with each other. The access control service controls logon to each service.

The data storage service stores electronic data such as picture data image data document data and print data. The data storage service which may include multiple services is implemented by a single information processor or two or more information processors in cooperation with each other.

The data processing service executes processes on data input by a user such as a data conversion process and a data transfer and storage process. The data processing service is implemented by a single information processor or two or more information processors in cooperation with each other.

For example the data storage service stores accumulates print jobs. The data processing service reads a print job of application data from the data storage service converts the read print job into print data and re stores the print job of print data in the data storage service . The data processing service may perform conversion into print data which is performed by a printer driver of the client terminal for example. Therefore according to the printing system of this embodiment it is possible to input a print job of application data from the information terminal without a printer driver and execute printing from for example the image forming apparatus

A user inputs a print job to the printing service from the information terminal or the client terminal of the public network N. At this point according to the printing system of the fourth embodiment the information terminal or the client terminal from which the print job has been input obtains a job identifier associated with the print job from the printing service .

After inputting the print job the user logs on to for example the image forming apparatus and inputs the job identifier obtained at the time of inputting the print job to the image forming apparatus . According to the printing system of the first embodiment the image forming apparatus may cause the print controller to associate the input print job with user information by making a job association request including the user information and the job identifier.

On the other hand according to the fourth embodiment the printing system includes the private network Nof Corporation A and the private network Nof Corporation B. Therefore for example the same username may be registered with both Corporation A and Corporation B. For example if the same username is registered with both Corporation A and Corporation B this situation cannot be addressed by causing the printing service to associate the input print job with user information alone. Therefore according to the printing system of the fourth embodiment the printing service is caused to associate an input print job user information and a corporate code group information with one another.

Then for example after logging on to the image forming apparatus the user gives an instruction to display a list of print jobs. The image forming apparatus obtains a job list including the print job input from the information terminal or the client terminal of the public network N from the printing service and displays the obtained job list. The user selects a print job that the user wishes to print from the job list and gives an instruction to print the selected print job a print instruction . The image forming apparatus obtains from the printing service the print job for which the print instruction has been received and executes printing prints the obtained print job .

With respect to the software configuration the corporate management service is a difference from the printing system of the first embodiment. is a diagram illustrating process blocks of a corporate management service according to this embodiment. The corporate management service includes a corporate authentication part a device authentication part and a management data retention part .

The corporate authentication part performs an authentication determination on a corporate code included in an authentication request received via the network N based on the corporate codes retained by the management data retention part . The corporate code is an example of identification information that identifies a corporation an organization a group or the like. The device authentication part performs an authentication determination on device information such as a device ID or an application ID included in an authentication request received via the network N based on the device information retained by the management data retention part . The device information is an example of identification information that identifies a device such as the image forming apparatus . The management data retentions part retains management data such as user information corporate information and device information.

With respect to processing the fourth embodiment is different from the first and the second embodiment in the job association process.

At step S the authentication apparatus performs authentication with the received authentication information. If authentication fails with the received authentication information at step S the authentication apparatus returns the authentication result of authentication failure to the image forming apparatus . If authentication succeeds with the received authentication information at step S the authentication apparatus returns the authentication result of authentication success to the image forming apparatus . The authentication result is returned from the authentication apparatus to the user operating the image forming apparatus

When the authentication result is authentication success at step S the user operates the image forming apparatus to input a job identifier reported to the user at the time of inputting the print job and makes a job association request. The image forming apparatus receives the job identifier input by the user.

At step S the image forming apparatus transmits a corporate code and device information retained as configuration setting information the job identifier PIN code received from the user and a username with respect to which authentication has succeeded to the printing service and makes a job association request.

At step S the printing service causes the corporate management service to perform corporate authentication determination with respect to the received corporate code. The corporate management service performs corporate authentication determination with respect to the received corporate code based on the corporate codes retained by the management data retention part . If authentication fails with the received corporate code at step S the corporate management service returns the authentication result of authentication failure to the image forming apparatus . If authentication succeeds with the received corporate code the corporate management service returns the authentication result of authentication success to the printing service .

In response to reception of the authentication result of authentication success at step S the printing service causes the corporate management service to perform device authentication determination with respect to the received device information. The corporate management service performs device authentication determination with respect to the received device information based on the device information retained by the management data retention part .

If authentication fails with the received device information at step S the corporate management service returns the authentication result of authentication failure to the image forming apparatus . If authentication succeeds with the received device information the corporate management service returns the authentication result of authentication success to the printing service .

The printing service collates the received job identifier with the job identifiers of the table as illustrated in . If no print job corresponding to the received job identifier is registered with the table illustrated in at step S the printing service returns the result of job association failure to the image forming apparatus

If a print job corresponding to the received job identifier is registered with the table illustrated in at step S the printing service selects a record corresponding to the received job identifier from the table illustrated in . Then the printing service obtains a print job corresponding to the job identifier from the temporary job storage part based on the record corresponding to the received job identifier and stores the obtained print job in the job storage part .

The printing service updates the data of Corporate Code and Username of the record corresponding to the received job identifier selected from the table illustrated in to the corporate code and username received from the image forming apparatus in the job association request.

According to the printing system of the fourth embodiment the problem that causing a printing service to associate an input print job with user information alone cannot address for example the situation where the same username is registered with both Corporation A and Corporation B is solved by causing the printing service to associate the input print job with user information and a corporate code.

All examples and conditional language provided herein are intended for pedagogical purposes of aiding the reader in understanding the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to further the art and are not to be construed as limitations to such specifically recited examples and conditions nor does the organization of such examples in the specification relate to a showing of the superiority or inferiority of the invention. Although one or more embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail it should be understood that the various changes substitutions and alterations could be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The printing systems and of the above described embodiments are examples of output systems and the image forming apparatuses and are examples of output apparatuses.

Output apparatuses are not limited to the image forming apparatuses and and may be any apparatuses that output image data or the like such as projection apparatuses including projectors and apparatuses that display image data.

