---

title: Method and apparatus for minimizing power consumption in a navigation system
abstract: An approach is provided for providing mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy. A device may process telematics information and/or sensor information associated with at least one vehicle to determine an estimated location of the vehicle. Then the device may cause a comparison of the estimated location against available mapping data. Further, the device may determine whether to determine a sensed location of the vehicle via one or more location sensors based, at least in part, on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09188451&OS=09188451&RS=09188451
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09188451
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20130228
---
Service providers e.g. wireless cellular etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of development has been proliferation of various sensors for example location magnetometer accelerometer speedometer personal and the like sensors that are included in various devices e.g. mobile phones tablets automobiles computers etc. which provide a wide range of services to users. For instance a location sensor e.g. a global positioning system GPS receiver may be used for navigation purposes while a user is walking driving boating biking hiking etc. or a magnetometer may be used to indicate direction of a user or a device movement or an accelerometer in a mobile device may be used to interface with and play certain electronic games and the like. However as users increase use of their devices and the associated sensors power requirements at the devices and at the sensors may limit duration of and or functionalities of the devices for the users. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant challenges to providing efficient power saving schemes for a device and its sensors.

Therefore there is a need for providing mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy.

According to one embodiment a method comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of telematics information sensor information or a combination thereof associated with at least one vehicle to determine an estimated location of the vehicle. The method also comprises causing at least in part a comparison of the estimated location against mapping data. The method further comprises determining whether to determine a sensed location of the vehicle via one or more location sensors based at least in part on the comparison.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of telematics information sensor information or a combination thereof associated with at least one vehicle to determine an estimated location of the vehicle. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a comparison of the estimated location against mapping data. The apparatus is further caused to determine whether to determine a sensed location of the vehicle via one or more location sensors based at least in part on the comparison.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of telematics information sensor information or a combination thereof associated with at least one vehicle to determine an estimated location of the vehicle. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a comparison of the estimated location against mapping data. The apparatus is further caused to determine whether to determine a sensed location of the vehicle via one or more location sensors based at least in part on the comparison.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means processing and or facilitating a processing of telematics information sensor information or a combination thereof associated with at least one vehicle to determine an estimated location of the vehicle. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a comparison of the estimated location against mapping data. The apparatus further comprises means for determining whether to determine a sensed location of the vehicle via one or more location sensors based at least in part on the comparison.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on including derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term a host device and a host can refer to a device which may include a navigation module and or a navigation device. For example various mobile devices such as a mobile phone a tablet a laptop computer and the like may include a navigation device which may include a navigation module. In another example an electronics system in on a vehicle e.g. a car a boat a plane a motorbike etc. may include a navigation device and or a navigation module. In various embodiments a host device may provide one or more functionalities to one or more devices which may be implemented in and or via the host device.

It is noted that embodiments of the approach described herein are applicable to any type of sensor and or instruments which may include digital and or analog instrument panels environmental sensors sensors for physical properties location sensors personal sensors wireless sensors wired sensors virtual sensors network sensors and the like.

To address at least these problems a system of presents the capability to provide for mechanisms to minimize power consumption by various devices systems and or sensors for example a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy. More specifically the system of introduces the capability of varying functionalities of certain sensors and devices in the system to minimize power consumption and achieve power savings while the sensors and the devices are still capable of providing certain levels of functionalities while within certain levels of accuracy and or deviation thresholds. In one instance a user may utilize a device which may include one or more location sensors for positioning and navigation purposes wherein the location sensors may be in communication with one or more satellite based positioning systems e.g. GPS Global Navigation Satellite System GLEANS etc. a network assisted and or a roadside positioning system and the like. In various embodiments the system may vary operation modes of various devices and sensors by enabling and or disabling certain features and functionalities of the devices and or the sensors. For example it is possible that not all sensors of a device need to be functioning continuously and or at the same time in order for the device to be able to provide a default or a requested functionality.

Modern vehicles can for example provide access to in vehicle sensor data associated with location e.g. GPS distance traveled velocity acceleration wheel angle compass heading and the like. Additionally that information may be made available via other user devices in the vehicle for example navigation device smart phones tablets laptop computers etc. Some of the user devices or embedded in vehicle devices include accurate and up to date map data which may be utilized to provide navigation services. In one embodiment to minimize power consumption one or more location sensors of a navigation system may be put into a low power mode a sleep mode a suspended mode and the like while positioning and or navigation functionalities still may be provided. In one use case scenario a user may utilize a navigation system in a vehicle where the navigation system may acquire a current location and or navigation information from a satellite based and or a network assisted positioning system for determining a navigation route route which may be presented to a user via one or more user interface mechanisms on one or more user devices in on the vehicle. Further the navigation system may determine various navigation information e.g. from a mapping data associated with the route for example a distance from a current location to a destination or to a checkpoint or to a point of interest POI or to a navigation event e.g. a left right U turn and the like. Furthermore the navigation information may include traffic information available alternate routes road conditions cross roads possible exits and the like. In one use case scenario once a current location and or a route information is retrieved and or determined from one or more external sources e.g. GPS a service provider etc. any additional information calculations determinations etc. may be performed by one or more local devices and or sensors.

In one embodiment a navigation device in a vehicle and or on a user device e.g. a mobile device may have determined a current location of the vehicle device and may further determine one or more movement information items associated with the vehicle for presenting a change of location to the user. In one embodiment the navigation device may determine a distance on a route over which distance the navigation device may locally determine movement information of the navigation device e.g. in on a vehicle and present location information e.g. utilizing mapping data before accessing requesting external location information e.g. GPS location wherein location sensors of the navigation device may be put in a sleep mode of operation for power savings and or efficiency. In various embodiments the navigation device may utilize various information items available from various sensors instruments gauges of a vehicle for determining a movement a direction a speed and the like. For example the information items may be available from an odometer a speedometer a steering control a compass a gyroscope a pedometer and the like.

In one instance one or more sensors of a vehicle may determine and indicate that the vehicle from an initial location begins travelling straight on a segment of a route then makes a left right turn at some point along the route then travels straight on another segment along the route then makes another left right turn at some point along the route and then stops at some point e.g. a POI a destination point etc. on the route. In one embodiment a navigation system in the vehicle may utilize a location sensor to determine the initial location utilize an odometer data to determine one or more distances of the one or more segments traveled along the route or stopping point and utilize one or more steering control sensors to determine the one or more turns along the route. In one embodiment the navigation device may be integrated with a vehicle s onboard instrumentation system. In one embodiment the navigation device may be integrated into a user device for example a mobile phone a tablet a laptop computer and the like wherein the user device may communicate with a vehicle s onboard instrumentation system for example via one or more wireless and or wired communication channels. In one embodiment the navigation device may be a device dedicated for navigation services wherein it may communicate with the vehicle s onboard instrumentation system one or more other user devices and the like for example via one or more wireless and or wired communication channels.

In one embodiment one or more devices of the vehicle e.g. in vehicle navigation system may have a capability to communicate e.g. via cellular WLAN etc. with one or more external service and or content providers cloud services which may provide offline and or online navigation information. For example an in vehicle navigation system may turn off its one or more location sensors for communicating with one or more satellite service providers e.g. GPS GLEANS etc. to save power e.g. battery but still the in vehicle navigation system may maintain a connection to the cloud services for requesting and transmitting navigation e.g. distance traveled turns etc. and other information e.g. from other sensors to the cloud services. In one embodiment the cloud services may utilize the navigation and the other information to analyze via the cloud services to identify any unexpected maneuvers e.g. an unexpected turn wherein the cloud services may then trigger the in vehicle navigation system to turn on the one or more offline location sensors e.g. GPS sensors so that the in vehicle navigation system may request and receive accurate location information from the satellite service providers. In one embodiment the cloud services may provide the accurate location information to the in vehicle navigation system in addition to or instead of the location information from the satellite service providers. In one embodiment once the in vehicle navigation system determines a current accurate location information e.g. from the satellite service providers it may then turn off the one or more location sensors to save power. In one embodiment the in vehicle navigation system may utilize one or more proximity communication channels e.g. Bluetooth near field communications NFC etc. to communicate with a nearby user device e.g. a mobile phone in the car wherein the in vehicle navigation system may determine request the accurate e.g. GPS location information from the user device instead of using its own location sensors e.g. GPS sensors for obtaining the accurate information.

In one embodiment a navigation device may utilize the methods of the system even when a user is not actively using accessing the navigation device. For example in some vehicles once a vehicle is being utilized for travelling an available navigation device may begin presenting location and navigation information on a UI display wherein the location sensors may be continuously communicating with external location positioning sources and services. In a scenario where a user does not necessarily need the positioning information e.g. driving to a known destination driving in a local neighborhood etc. an available navigation device may initiate an inactive mode of operation for one or more location sensors used for communicating with external sources and services and instead utilize local map data and vehicle travel movement data to determine and present the current vehicle location. In one embodiment the navigation device may activate the location sensors at predefined intervals to obtain real time positioning data from external sources and services for more accurate updates of vehicle location information. In one embodiment the navigation system may determine a potential deviation and or accuracy of a current location of a navigation device vehicle with reference to mapping data and if the potential deviation and or accuracy meets a certain threshold value then the navigation system may determine to activate one or more location sensors for communicating with one or more external sources e.g. GPS and for determining an accurate current location of the navigation device vehicle.

As shown in in one embodiment the system includes user equipment UE also collectively referred to as a UE and or UEs which may be utilized to execute one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications including navigation application games social networking web browser media application user interface UI map application web client etc. to communicate with other UEs one or more service providers also collectively referred to as service provider one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers one or more instruments sensors also collectively referred to as the instruments a navigation device one or more satellites also collectively referred to as the satellite system and or with other components of a communication network directly and or over the communication network . In one embodiment the UEs may include data collection modules also collectively referred to as DC module for determining and or collecting data associated with the UEs one or more sensors of the UE one or more users of the UEs applications one or more content items and the like.

In one embodiment a UE may include a navigation module which may include one or more sensors and or modules for determining requesting and or accessing one or more navigation information items for providing location and navigation services wherein the navigation information may include mapping data movement direction geo location and the like. In addition the UE can execute an application that is a software client for storing processing and or forwarding the navigation information to other components of the system . In one embodiment the navigation module may be implemented in a navigation device wherein the navigation device may communicate with any entity of the system either directly and or via the communication network . In one embodiment the navigation device may communicate with the instruments for requesting one or more navigation information items available from the instruments . In one embodiment the instruments sensors may include various instruments and sensors which are associated with a vehicle e.g. a car a bike a motorcycle a boat etc. In one embodiment the navigation device and or the navigation module may be implemented as one or more components of a vehicle s electronics system. In various embodiments the navigation module may be implemented in various host devices host wherein a host may provide one or more functionalities to implement the navigation module . In one embodiment the navigation device may include one or more applications for example including navigation application games social networking web browser media application user interface UI map application web client etc. to communicate with the UEs the service providers the content providers the instruments one or more other navigation devices the satellite system and or with other components of a communication network directly and or over the communication network .

In one embodiment the service providers may include and or have access to one or more databases also collectively referred to as database which may include various mapping data user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. service providers information other service providers information and the like. In one embodiment the service providers may include one or more service providers offering one or more services for example navigation services location based services online shopping social networking services e.g. blogging content sharing media upload media download media streaming account management services or a combination thereof. Further the service providers may conduct a search for content items media items information coupons and the like associated with one or more users POIs geo locations and the like.

In one embodiment the content providers may include and or have access to one or more database also collectively referred to as database which may store include and or have access to various content items. For example the content providers may store content items e.g. at the database provided by various users various service providers crowd sourced content and the like. Further the service providers and or the content providers may utilize one or more service application programming interfaces APIs integrated interface through which communication media content and information e.g. associated with users applications services content etc. may be shared accessed and or processed.

In various embodiments the UEs may interact with the instruments wherein the UEs and or the instruments may include a combination of various sensors for example one or more wearable sensors accelerometers odometer sensors steering control sensors speedometer sensors magnetometer sensors vehicle diagnostic sensors vehicle information sensors and the like. By way of example connectivity between the UEs the navigation device and or the instruments may be facilitated by short range wireless communications for example NFC protocol Bluetooth WLAN MirrorLink ANT ANT ZigBee etc. and or via a wired communication bus hub a universal serial bus USB data port and the like.

In one embodiment the navigation module may include one or more sensors e.g. a steering control a microphone a camera an accelerometer GPS receiver a magnetometer etc. for monitoring and or collection of sensor data. For example the sensors may continuously and or at periodic intervals capture odometer steering control angle direction accelerometer speedometer magnetometer and the like information. The UEs e.g. via the application the DC module and or the navigation module may store the data temporarily perform any needed processing and or aggregation and send the data to the service providers continuously and or at periodic intervals. In one embodiment the data sent includes at least in part timestamps sensor data e.g. vehicle data environmental data etc. and or context information. By way of example the operational states of the sensors on the UEs and or the navigation device may include setting and or modifying of related operational parameters including sampling rate parameters to sample transmission protocol activity timing etc. By way of example the UEs and or the navigation device may include one or more components for providing adaptive filtering of sensors and or sensor data for example by executing at least one algorithm.

In one embodiment the system may determining a distance from a location of a device on a route to a checkpoint location on the route based at least in part on mapping data associated with the route. In one use case scenario a user may indicate via a navigation device e.g. a UE the navigation device etc. on a map application a desired destination location wherein the navigation module may determine one or more possible routes to the destination based on mapping data. In one embodiment the mapping data is available on the device via one or more service providers via one or more content providers or a combination thereof. Further once the user and or the navigation module select a route the navigation module may determine various information available for the selected route. For example a distance from the user s current location to the destination may be determined a travel time or a distance from the user s current location to one or more checkpoint locations along the route may be determined or one or more distances between the one or more checkpoint locations may be determined and the like. In one embodiment a checkpoint location may be a point along the route where the user may be able to take one or more actions for example take an exit off a freeway or make a right left turn onto another road or make a U turn and the like. In one embodiment there may be one or more sub destinations identified by the user wherein a sub destination may be a planned stop for the user. For example a stop at a market location when traveling from a user s workplace to the user s home.

In one embodiment the system may process and or facilitate a processing of telematics information sensor information or a combination thereof associated with at least one vehicle to determine an estimated location of the vehicle. In one embodiment a navigation device may access request and process various data available from one or more sensors instruments wherein the data may be associated with a vehicle and may indicate a travel distance speed and or direction. In one embodiment the telematics information indicates at least in part a location of the vehicle a movement of the vehicle a status of the vehicle or a combination thereof. For example various instruments sensors may indicate movements of the vehicle for example an in vehicle odometer sensor may indicate a distance traveled by the vehicle or a speedometer sensor may indicate a travelling speed of the vehicle or a steering control sensor may indicate an angle and direction of the steering wheels on the vehicle etc. where a navigation device may utilize the information to estimate a current location of the vehicle with respect to the known initial location of the vehicle. In one embodiment speedometer information speed of the vehicle may be compared to the speed of other nearby vehicles e.g. traffic speed and to information about speed limit at the current location as an information item which may be used as positioning information. For example a vehicle would not be traveling at 120 km h on a road which may be parallel to a highway. In one use case scenario a vehicle may start traveling from a known location A when one or more instruments sensors may provide data indicating that the vehicle may be traveling in one or more directions e.g. left turn right turn South East West etc. at one or more speeds and for a certain distance. Further the navigation device may use the data to estimate as to where the vehicle may be located at a given time based on the initial location information and available mapping data. In one embodiment the estimated location is based at least in part on the vehicle location history a user history or a combination thereof. For example the navigation device may compare a current estimated location to history information associated with the vehicle with the navigation device with a user and the like. In one instance the user history may indicate that a current estimated location is a POI e.g. a restaurant which the user visited last week.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part a comparison of the estimated location against mapping data. In one embodiment the mapping data is available via an in vehicle system via one or more devices in the vehicle via one or more service providers via one or more content providers or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a navigation device may compare the estimated location information of a vehicle to mapping data which may be available via an in vehicle system and or the navigation device may access request the mapping data from one or more other devices and or external sources e.g. a service provider. For example the navigation device may compare the estimated location to the mapping data to determine if the estimated location can be identified on the mapping data. In one instance from an initial location the vehicle may have traveled away two miles in a southeast direction while making several left and or right turns in which case the navigation device can estimate the location of the vehicle on a mapping application.

In one embodiment the system may determine whether to determine a sensed location of the vehicle via one or more location sensors based at least in part on the comparison. In one embodiment the comparison indicates a potential deviation an accuracy or a combination thereof of the estimated location with reference to the mapping data. In one embodiment a navigation device may evaluate the potential deviation and or the accuracy of the estimated location against a threshold in order to determine if the estimated location is within an acceptable margin of error. For example to determine if the estimated current location is on a proper route e.g. a road a street etc. in the mapping data or if the current location is estimated to be at an improper unreasonable point in the mapping data for instance off the road in a canyon where the route was supposed to be on a certain road. In one embodiment if the potential deviation and or the accuracy meet the threshold then the navigation device may access request and or acquire a more accurate positioning data sensed location from one or more external sources. In one embodiment the sensed location is determined based at least in part on data from a satellite based navigation system a network assisted navigation system one or more external sensors or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the navigation device may sense the positioning data for a predetermined amount of time or an event e.g. locate a major route locate a known POI locate a known landmark etc. In one embodiment the sensors may be used to determine virtual landmarks which may include sensors placed in the road e.g. RFID sensors in the asphalt on the side of the road on a bus stop sign station on road crossings close to real landmarks and the like. In one embodiment if the navigation device does not or cannot identify an expected sensor or landmark then the navigation system may be triggered to utilize one or more location sensors for obtaining accurate location information.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part an activation of the one or more location sensors based at least in part on the potential deviation the accuracy or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the navigation device may determine to activate one or more location sensors based on the potential deviation the accuracy. For example if the deviation is more than 100 meters than activate one or more location sensors. In one embodiment the activation of the one or more location sensors is based at least in part on a power level associated with the vehicle one or more devices associated with the vehicle or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the navigation device and or an in vehicle system may determine one or more power levels associated with the vehicle and or the navigation device for activating the one or more location sensors.

In one embodiment the system may determine a travel route based at least in part on a user input. In various embodiments a navigation device may determine one or more travel routes for one or more users via a UI e.g. on the navigation device one or more other devices e.g. a mobile device one or more applications e.g. a calendar application on a mobile device in the vehicle and the like.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part the activation of the one or more location sensors based at least in part on the travel route a destination a threshold associated with the potential deviation a threshold associated with the accuracy or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a navigation device may cause the activation based on determining one or more characteristics for a travel route for example whether the travel route is via an unfamiliar area for the user or whether the destination type location may indicate an urgency to reach the destination for example a hospital an airport a train station a wedding hall etc. In various embodiments the navigation device may cause the activation based on the potential deviation and or the accuracy thresholds. For example the one or more location sensors may be activated based on whether the potential deviation is greater than a threshold or whether the accuracy is less than a threshold and the like.

In one embodiment the system may determine directional information of the vehicle based at least in part on data from one or more sensors associated with a steering control of the vehicle. In one embodiment a navigation device may request receive data from one or more steering control sensors of a vehicle so that a one or more directional information items may be determined. For example the steering control sensors may indicate an angle and direction of the vehicle s steering wheels steering column steering wheel and the like so that the navigation device and or one more other devices may ascertain one or more changes in traveling direction of the vehicle. In one embodiment the change of travel direction may be continuously compared to available mapping data and or the comparison may be done if the steering control sensors detect a change of direction.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part an update to the estimated location based at least in part on the directional information. In one embodiment the navigation device may cause an update to the estimated location of the vehicle based on the directional information determined via the one or more steering control sensors. In one embodiment the estimated location may be continuously presented to the user via a UI on one or more devices available in the vehicle.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part a monitoring of a current location of the device on the route based at least in part on a direction and a distance traveled by the device. In one embodiment the navigation module may utilize one or more sensors and or modules e.g. a magnetometer associated with the navigation module and or a host device to determine a direction and a distance of travel for presenting a current location of a device e.g. a vehicle via a UI. For example the navigation module can use the travel direction information to determine whether the device is at least traveling in the direction of a checkpoint and or a destination point on a determined route.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part a presentation of the current navigation location. In one embodiment the navigation module may determine and present a current position of a host device e.g. a vehicle and cause a presentation of the current location and or traveling direction on a map application wherein the current location and traveling direction may be determined based on information determined substantially locally.

In one embodiment imaging and or audio samples e.g. video pictures etc. may be utilized to assist in determining a current location. For instance a camera and a microphone on a UE and or on the vehicle may be used to capture a video audio and or image sample of the street view imagery e.g. image detection where the captured samples may be analyzed locally e.g. at UE or may be transmitted to a service provider e.g. cloud services so that the audio and or the image samples may be used to determine a current location for example an initial location of the user. In one embodiment the audio and image samples may be pre processed at the UE so that an optimized amount data may be available for transmission to the cloud services while the samples still include valid accurate and useful data. In one scenario a UE may be mounted in the vehicle at a position so that the camera of the UE may capture the image and or audio samples of the street view. In one use case the image and or audio samples may be utilized to determine location information where a UE may not be equipped with GPS sensors and or when the UE cannot receive the GPS data e.g. in a building in a tunnel no GPS etc. In one use case a UE and the image and or audio samples may be utilized for determining location and travel direction information for a user while walking in an area while in a building and the like wherein the location and direction information may be utilized to calibrate one or more sensors on the UE .

Although various embodiments are discussed with respect to providing mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy it is contemplated that embodiments of the approach described herein are applicable to any type of sensory data including environmental physical properties material location sensors user device and the like. In one embodiment the sensory data refers for instance to data that indicates state of a sensor or an instrument state of a user device a vehicle or user environment and or the inferred state of the sensor or the instrument of the user device of the vehicle or of the user.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UEs may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device healthcare diagnostic and testing devices product testing devices multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. . Further the UEs may include various sensors for collecting data associated with a vehicle a user a user s environment and or with a UE for example the sensors may determine and or capture audio video images atmospheric conditions device location user mood ambient lighting user physiological information device movement speed and direction and the like.

By way of example the UEs the service provider the content providers and the instruments may communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment one or more entities of the system may interact according to a client server model with the applications and or the DC module of the UE . According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service e.g. context based grouping social networking etc. . The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others.

The location sensor can determine a device s location for example location of a UE . The device s location may be determined by a triangulation system such as a satellite based positioning system e.g. GPS GLEANS etc. a network assisted positioning system e.g. A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS GLEANS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location of a device. A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location sensor may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . Location coordinates e.g. satellite based positioning coordinates can give finer detail as to the location of the UE when media is captured. In one embodiment satellite based positioning coordinates are stored as context information in the memory and are available to the navigation module the service provider and or to other entities of the system via the communication interface . Moreover in certain embodiments the satellite based positioning coordinates can include an altitude to provide a height. In other embodiments the altitude can be determined using another type of altimeter. In certain embodiments the location sensor can be a means for determining a location of the UE an image or used to associate an object in view with a location.

The magnetometer sensor can be used in finding horizontal orientation of a device. A magnetometer is an instrument that can measure the strength and or direction of a magnetic field. Using the same approach as a compass the magnetometer is capable of determining the direction of a device using the magnetic field of the Earth. The front of a media capture device e.g. a camera can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Thus if the magnetic field points north compared to the reference point the angle the device e.g. a UE a vehicle a navigation device etc. reference point is from the magnetic field is known. Simple calculations can be made to determine the direction of the device associated with the magnetometer. In one embodiment horizontal directional data obtained from a magnetometer can be stored in memory made available to other sensors modules and or applications for example at the UE at the navigation device and or transmitted via the communication interface to one or more entities of the system .

The accelerometer sensor can be used to determine vertical orientation of a device. An accelerometer is an instrument that can measure acceleration. Using a three axis accelerometer with axes X Y and Z provides the acceleration in three directions with known angles. Once again the front of a media capture device can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Because the acceleration due to gravity is known when a UE is stationary the accelerometer sensor can determine the angle the UE is pointed as compared to Earth s gravity. In certain embodiments the magnetometer sensor and accelerometer sensor can be means for ascertaining a perspective of a user. This perspective information may be stored in the memory made available to other modules and or applications at the UE at the navigation device and or sent to one or more entities of the system .

The odometer sensor can be used to determine a distance traveled for example by a vehicle. In one embodiment the odometer sensor may request and odometer information from a vehicle s odometer sensor and or instrument wherein the information may be actual odometer readings and or may be such data that the navigation module may process for determining odometer information of the vehicle. In one embodiment distance traveled by a user may be determined from a pedometer device utilized by the user.

The speedometer sensor can be used to determine a speed at which a vehicle or person may be travelling at wherein the speed may be present in different distance and time measuring units. For example a speed of a vehicle may be presented in miles per hour mph miles per minute kilometer per hour km h meters per second and the like. In one embodiment speed information may be determined by utilizing odometer information associated with a vehicle or a user to determine a distance traveled in a given amount of time. For example an odometer reading indicates a distance of one mile that was traveled in one minute which would indicate a speed of one mph or 60 mph. Conversely a distance traveled may be determined from available information from a speedometer sensor and a duration of time that a vehicle or a user traveled at that speed. For example if speedometer information indicates a speed of 100 km h and a vehicle traveled for 30 minutes at that speed then the distance traveled by the vehicle would be 50 km 100 km h 0.5 hrs. In one embodiment one or more variations in speed of a vehicle may be tracked and correlated to a duration of time that the vehicle traveled at a specific speed. For example a vehicle travels at 100 km h for 15 minutes resulting in a distance of 25 km and then travels at 90 km h for 10 minutes resulting in a distance of 15 km wherein the total distance traveled would be 40 km during the 25 minute travel. Moreover a given speed information for a given duration of time at the speed may be utilized to instantly and or continuously calculate a traveled distance for example feet per seconds meters per seconds and the like.

The steering control sensor may provide one or more information items for determining directional information associated with a steering control of a vehicle. For example the steering control sensor may be associated with a steering wheel of a vehicle or may be associated with steering wheels mechanisms e.g. front wheels back wheels etc. of a vehicle or may be associated with a steering column connection of the vehicle to the steering wheels and or the steering wheel and the like. In one embodiment the steering control sensor may be have wireless and or wired connection to the steering control of the vehicle wherein it may determine a turning radius a wheel angle a directional turn and the like. In one embodiment the steering control sensor may also determine one or more turn signals for example left right and correlated the turn signals with the data determined by the steering control sensor .

In various embodiments the one or more other sensors N may include various sensors for detecting and or capturing data associated with the user and or a host device. For example various sensors N may include sensors for capturing environmental e.g. atmospheric conditions audio video images temperature user physiological data user mood e.g. hungry angry tired etc. user interactions with the UEs with the navigation device and the like. In certain embodiments information collected from and or by the navigation module may be retrieved by the runtime module stored in memory made available to other sensors modules and or applications at the UE at the navigation device and or sent to one or more entities of the system .

In one embodiment the communication interface can be used to communicate with a host device a host system and or one or more entities of the system . Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . In some examples the navigation module may send and or receive various sensor data to and from other sensors other modules other devices and the like for example to and or from a UE the navigation device the service providers the content providers and or to other entities of the system .

The data context processing module may be utilized in determining context information from the sensors module the UE the navigation device . For example it can determine user activity vehicle type in vehicle available instruments application and or service utilization user information type of information included in the data information that may be inferred from the data and the like. The data may be shared with a host device e.g. the UE applications and or caused to be transmitted via the communication interface to the service provider and or to other entities of the system . The data context processing module may additionally be utilized as a means for determining information related to the user a vehicle instruments sensors gauges various data the UEs and the like. Further data context processing module for instance may manage e.g. organizes the collected data based on general characteristics rules logic algorithms instructions etc. associated with the data. In certain embodiments the data context processing module can infer higher level context information from the context data such as favorite locations significant places common activities interests in products and services etc.

In one embodiment the sensors module may determine and or set an operation mode of one or more sensors based at least in part on one or more parameters configurations requirements settings and the like which may be provided by a host device a service provider and or a user. In one user case scenario the navigation module may be implemented in a navigation device wherein a power management setting may indicate that one or more of the sensors of the navigation module may need to be put into a sleep mode a suspend mode an active mode a hybrid mode and the like. In one embodiment a user may determine and select a mode of operation for the one or more sensors in the sensors module .

Referring to the process begins at step where the navigation module processes and or facilitates a processing of telematics information sensor information or a combination thereof associated with at least one vehicle to determine an estimated location of the vehicle. In one embodiment a navigation device may access request and process various data available from one or more sensors instruments wherein the data may be associated with a vehicle and may indicate a travel distance speed and or direction. In one embodiment the telematics information indicates at least in part a location of the vehicle a movement of the vehicle a status of the vehicle or a combination thereof. For example various instruments sensors may indicate movements of the vehicle for example an in vehicle odometer sensor may indicate a distance traveled by the vehicle or a speedometer sensor may indicate a travelling speed of the vehicle or a steering control sensor may indicate an angle and direction of the steering wheels on the vehicle etc. where a navigation device may utilize the information to estimate a current location of the vehicle with respect to the known initial location of the vehicle. In one embodiment speed information of the vehicle may be compared to the speed of other nearby vehicles e.g. traffic speed and to information about speed limit at the current location road as an information items which may be used as positioning information. For example a vehicle would not be traveling at 120 km h on a road which may be parallel to a highway. In one use case scenario a vehicle may start traveling from a known location A when one or more instruments sensors may provide data indicating that the vehicle may be traveling in one or more directions e.g. left turn right turn South East West etc. at one or more speeds and for a certain distance. Further the navigation device may use the data to estimate as to where the vehicle may be located at a given time based on the initial location information and available mapping data. In one embodiment the estimated location is based at least in part on the vehicle location history a user history or a combination thereof. For example the navigation device may compare a current estimated location to history information associated with the vehicle with the navigation device with a user and the like. In one instance the user history may indicate that a current estimated location is a POI e.g. a restaurant which the user visited last week.

In step the navigation module causes at least in part a comparison of the estimated location against mapping data. In one embodiment the mapping data is available via an in vehicle system via one or more devices in the vehicle via one or more service providers via one or more content providers or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a navigation device may compare the estimated location information of a vehicle to mapping data which may be available via an in vehicle system and or the navigation device may access request the mapping data from one or more other devices and or external sources e.g. a service provider. For example the navigation device may compare the estimated location to the mapping data to determine if the estimated location can be identified on the mapping data. In one instance from an initial location the vehicle may have traveled away two miles in a south east direction while making several left and or right turns in which case the navigation device can estimate the location of the vehicle on a mapping application.

In step the navigation module determines whether to determine a sensed location of the vehicle via one or more location sensors based at least in part on the comparison. In one embodiment the comparison indicates a potential deviation an accuracy or a combination thereof of the estimated location with reference to the mapping data. In one embodiment a navigation device may evaluate the potential deviation and or the accuracy of the estimated location against a threshold in order to determine if the estimated location is within an acceptable margin of error. For example to determine if the estimated current location is on a proper route e.g. a road a street etc. in the mapping data or if the current location is estimated to be at an improper unreasonable point in the mapping data for instance off the road in a canyon where the route was supposed to be on a certain road. In one embodiment if the potential deviation and or the accuracy meets the threshold then the navigation device may access request and or acquire a more accurate positioning data sensed location from one or more external sources. In one embodiment the sensed location is determined based at least in part on data from a satellite based navigation system a network assisted navigation system one or more external sensors or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the navigation device may sense the positioning data for a predetermined amount of time or an event e.g. locate a major route locate a known POI locate a known landmark etc. In one embodiment the sensors may be used to determine virtual landmarks which may include sensors placed in the road e.g. RFID sensors in the asphalt on the side of the road on a bus stop sign station on road crossings close to real landmarks and the like. In one embodiment if the navigation device does not or cannot identify an expected sensor or landmark then the navigation system may be triggered to utilize one or more location sensors for obtaining accurate location information.

Referring to now the process begins at step where the navigation module causes at least in part an activation of the one or more location sensors based at least in part on the potential deviation the accuracy or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the navigation device may determine to activate one or more location sensors based on the potential deviation the accuracy. For example if the deviation is more than 100 meters than activate one or more location sensors. In one embodiment the activation of the one or more location sensors is based at least in part on a power level associated with the vehicle one or more devices associated with the vehicle or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the navigation device and or an in vehicle system may determine one or more power levels associated with the vehicle and or the navigation device for activating the one or more location sensors.

At step the navigation module determines a travel route based at least in part on a user input. In various embodiments a navigation device may determine one or more travel routes for one or more users via a UI e.g. on the navigation device one or more other devices e.g. a mobile device one or more applications e.g. a calendar application on a mobile device in the vehicle and the like.

At step the navigation module causes at least in part the activation of the one or more location sensors based at least in part on the travel route a destination a threshold associated with the potential deviation a threshold associated with the accuracy or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a navigation device may cause the activation based on determining one or more characteristics for a travel route for example whether the travel route is via an unfamiliar area for the user or whether the destination type location may indicate an urgency to reach the destination for example a hospital an airport a train station a wedding hall etc. In various embodiments the navigation device may cause the activation based on the potential deviation and or the accuracy thresholds. For example the one or more location sensors may be activated based on whether the potential deviation is greater than a threshold or whether the accuracy is less than a threshold and the like.

At step the navigation module determines directional information of the vehicle based at least in part on data from one or more sensors associated with a steering control of the vehicle. In one embodiment a navigation device may request receive data from one or more steering control sensors of a vehicle so that a one or more directional information items may be determined. For example the steering control sensors may indicate an angle and direction of the vehicle s steering wheels steering column steering wheel and the like so that the navigation device and or one more other devices may ascertain one or more changes in traveling direction of the vehicle. In one embodiment the change of travel direction may be continuously compared to available mapping data and or the comparison may be done if the steering control sensors detect a change of direction.

At step the navigation module causes at least in part an update to the estimated location based at least in part on the directional information. In one embodiment the navigation device may cause an update to the estimated location of the vehicle based on the directional information determined via the one or more steering control sensors. In one embodiment the estimated location may be continuously presented to the user via a UI on one or more devices available in the vehicle.

In the navigation module may continuously or periodically compare the estimated current location which may have been estimated based on local data to mapping data available via the navigation device an in vehicle system a UE and the like. In one scenario the estimated current location may vary from the actual location of the vehicle for example when the distance information e.g. odometer data is not accurate then the estimation of the traveled distance may be inaccurate. In one instance current location and travel direction indicates that the estimated location is deviating from the route and the mapping data where for example the mapping data may indicate that there is no road at the estimated location and travel direction. In one embodiment the estimated location deviation may be due to an accident a road block a detour and the like where information on reasons of the deviation may be valuable and may be shared with the local authorities and or other nearby users. In one embodiment the navigation module may analyze the comparison results and compare it to one or more deviation and or accuracy thresholds wherein if the comparison results meet the threshold then one or more location sensors may be activated to request or access real time location data from one or more external sources. For example the location sensors may be activated an estimated current location compared to the mapping data deviated by more than 100 meters or if the estimated current location compared to the mapping data has an accuracy rate of less than 90 .

In the navigation device presents a current location of the vehicle on the route on the mapping application wherein the route includes a left turn at point B along the route . In one scenario the navigation module detects via one or more sensors a left turn by the vehicle however when the navigation module compares a current estimated location of the left turn to the route and the mapping data it can determine that the estimated location of the left turn does not match to the mapping data. For example the comparison may at least indicate that the left turn is estimated to be at a location where the map data indicate there is no road between the two roads and where a left turn would be substantially impossible. In one embodiment the navigation module may determine to temporarily activate one or more location sensors based at least in part on a deviation and or an accuracy threshold so that the navigation module may access real time location information sensed location from one or more external sources so an accurate current location may be determined. In one embodiment accuracy of an estimated location may increase due to one more navigation events for example left right turns as the navigation module may use the navigation events to compare to the available mapping data.

The processes described herein for mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to providing mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide mechanisms to minimize power consumption in a navigation system while allowing for various levels of functionality and accuracy. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Additionally sensors module may include various sensors for instance a location sensor a speed sensor an audio sensor an image sensor a brightness sensor a biometrics sensor various physiological sensors a directional sensor and the like for capturing various data associated with the mobile terminal e.g. a mobile phone a user of the mobile terminal an environment of the mobile terminal and or the user or a combination thereof wherein the data may be collected processed stored and or shared with one or more components and or modules of the mobile terminal and or with one or more entities external to the mobile terminal .

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

