---

title: Monitoring system for distributed antenna systems
abstract: A distributed antenna system (DAS) provides a plurality of DAS coverage areas for a wireless network. A plurality of statically deployed monitoring devices, each of which includes at least one radio frequency (RF) transmitter/receiver, are configured to run application tests, for example, for voice, messaging, or locations-based services, to provide testing of the wireless network to thereby generate test information related to the wireless network. An evaluation component and a control component respectively analyze the test information and adjust one or more parameters of the wireless network based on the test information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08831592&OS=08831592&RS=08831592
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, LP
number: 08831592
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130909
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 548 782 filed Jul. 13 2012 entitled Monitoring System for Distributed Antenna Systems naming inventors Shane Michael Elliott and Blaine Thomas which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 315 772 filed Dec. 9 2011 entitled Monitoring System for Distributed Antenna Systems naming inventors Shane Michael Elliott and Blaine Thomas which applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This application relates to wireless communications and more particularly to monitoring performance of wireless communication systems.

Conventional wireless communication systems communicate over a cellular network with mobile communication devices such as cellular telephones mobile computers tablets and other communication computing and consumer devices. Conventional cellular systems provide communication services to the communication devices over wide areas such as cities using multiple transmission towers transmitting to respective macro cells. However certain environments may have poor coverage due to geography buildings or other impediments to wireless services. In order to address such coverage issues and provide enhanced communication capabilities over a relatively small geographic region distributed antenna systems DAS have been deployed.

Distributed antenna systems include a plurality of spatially separated antennas to provide wireless communication services for a limited coverage area. The coverage area of the DAS network may be a campus stadium office building or other such limited geographic location or structure. The power provided to each antenna is typically less than that provided to a transmitter of a conventional cellular system since the coverage area of each antenna is much smaller than a conventional macro cell.

Monitoring performance of conventional wireless networks to evaluate and adjust resource utilization to improve performance can be difficult. Monitoring of DAS networks can be even more problematic where the DAS networks are deployed in limited geographic areas such as an office building or stadium.

In an embodiment a distributed antenna system DAS provides a respective plurality of DAS coverage areas to provide at least a portion of a wireless network. A plurality of statically deployed monitoring devices each of which includes at least one radio frequency RF transmitter receiver are configured to run application tests to provide testing of the wireless network to thereby provide test information related to the wireless network. A control component is responsive to the test information to cause adjustment to one or more parameters of the wireless network.

In another embodiment a method is provided that includes running tests using a plurality of statically deployed monitoring devices that test one or more of voice data and messaging services provided by a network that includes a distributed antenna system DAS including a plurality of DAS antennas to generate test information related to the network. One or more parameters of the network are adjusted based on the information.

Each of the DAS antennas provides a coverage area associated with its respective antenna. For ease of illustration only a subset of the DAS antennas is labeled. The DAS network may provide wireless communication services for devices such as cellular telephones smart phones tablet computers personal computer PC or other wireless devices. The wireless devices can communicate with the DAS network through various wireless communication technologies e.g. the wireless communication technologies described above. As described further herein the antennas of the DAS are coupled to the carrier network through a transport medium coupling the antennas to e.g. a base transceiver station BTS for GSM a NodeB a UMTS equivalent base station an eNodeB an LTE equivalent base station and through the base station to the remainder of the carrier network.

The system illustrated in may also include a macro cell that provides communication services from a tower coupled to the carrier network through conventional mechanisms. Note that the macro cell overlaps with the coverage provided by at least some of the DAS antennas.

The system illustrated in also includes a plurality of monitoring devices . The monitoring devices are configured as explained more fully herein to execute scripts that test various aspects of the radio network provided by the DAS radio network. The monitoring devices are static and may be mounted on any suitable structure such as a pole wall or other mounting location. In an embodiment the monitoring devices are configured to test multiple types of communication services such as voice data messaging and location based services for various communication technologies such as GSM GPRS EDGE CDMA2000 LTE WiMAX and WiFi. Based on the results of the tests utilization of network resources and network performance can be evaluated and various parameters of the DAS network and the macro cell s may be adjusted to provide improved network performance and thus a better user experience in the coverage area provided by the DAS network.

Referring to illustrated is a high level block diagram of an illustrative monitoring device . The monitoring device may include a number of radios and radio to radio N to communicate over various frequency bands using various RF technologies. The radios may be provided by e.g. wireless cards for e.g. 802.11 GSM UMTS. In at least one embodiment the monitoring device supports multiple frequency bands which may include e.g. 700 MHz 850 MHz 900 MHz 1900 MHz 2100 MHz 2400 MHz and 5000 MHz. The various frequency bands may correspond to various wireless telecommunication technologies including Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 2000 Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP or 3G Long Term Evolution LTE 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or 3GPP UMTS Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA GSM Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Radio Access Network RAN or GERAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or LTE Advanced. In addition the wireless technologies supported by the deployed DAS may include Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity based on IEEE 802.11 a b g n etc. . The various radios allow the device to test various wireless communication technologies. One or more of the radios may operate on multiple frequency bands as is known in the art.

The illustrative monitoring device includes at least one network interface circuit that allows wired communication over e.g. an Ethernet connection. In addition or alternatively universal serial bus USB and other serial or parallel communication interfaces may be provided. The device may be able to test particular wireless communication technologies e.g. on UMTS and or LTE using one or more of the radios and report test results over an out of band communication path. The out of band communication path may be e.g. through network interface circuit over an Ethernet connection or via a WiFi connection. The out of band communication path allows test results to be reported without causing additional traffic for the wireless communication technology being tested. The monitoring device includes a processor and a memory . While a single processor and single memory is shown in the device may have multiple memories. For example memory may represent various types of memories including dynamic random access memory DRAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM read only memory ROM one time programmable OTP memory magnetic memory such as hard drives and or optical storage. The processor may represent various types and numbers of processors suitable to the particular applications the monitoring device is intended to test. For example the processor may represent both a microcontroller and a digital signal processor utilized to perform signal processing functions associated with one or more of the radios. The processor may be used to execute test scripts stored in memory to cause the radios to test aspects of the RF network as described further herein.

Referring back to in a venue such as a stadium during a sporting or other event high numbers of portable communication devices are present putting a tremendous strain on the network resources available at the venue. The monitoring devices may be configured to run test scripts that exercise various aspects of the telecommunications network such as voice messaging and location based services. Based on test results parameters of the telecommunications network may be adjusted to better exploit the available resources of the network.

For example one test script may cause a particular monitoring device to test voice services. The test script causes the monitoring device to get a connection dial a test server and verify that a voice connection has been established. Success or failure of the test may be determined by the time required to complete the test which may be stored in memory on the monitoring device for subsequent transmission to a control component as described further herein. If the test does not complete a time out function may be utilized to determine failure of the test. The test may be repeated for various technologies available in the network e.g. GSM UMTS and LTE. Based on the time to complete the test network latency associated with the particular tested network service such as voice can be determined.

The test results may be reported out of band to the appropriate control component so as to not further load the network being tested. For example the test results may be reported using the Ethernet interface present in the monitoring device for transmission over a network to a local or remote collection component as described further herein that collects test results from multiple monitoring devices. The remote collections component may be an evaluation component that receives all the test results from the monitoring devices directly or indirectly through other monitoring devices. Thus the test results may be reported e.g. over WiFi to another monitoring device with an Ethernet connection for reporting to the collection component. If those reporting paths are not available the test results may be reported over one of the network paths being tested. A priority may be assigned to particular reporting paths with the highest priority being the path e.g. that least loads the network. Thus in an embodiment the highest priority reporting path could be the Ethernet with the second highest reporting path being WiFi then GSM UMTS and LTE. In an embodiment the priority of the reporting path may be determined dynamically based on loading. For example if a GSM frequency band is not heavily loaded that reporting path may be preferred over UMTS or LTE. While the Ethernet and WiFi connections allow for reporting of tests the reporting paths may also be used to write to the monitoring devices to load new tests into monitoring devices or adjust parameters of the monitoring devices such as preferred reporting paths. The monitoring devices may be configured to run particular tests with particular frequencies. Thus e.g. at a venue the monitoring devices may be configured to turn on an hour before the event starts and run tests with a particular frequency or at particular times or loop tests in a particular order.

Another test script may cause a monitoring device to test messaging services. In the test the monitoring device opens a short message service SMS application. The script causes the monitoring device to send a text message to a particular phone number which may be a phone number associated with a server in the carrier network. The test message sent by the monitoring device may have a particular pattern of numbers and or letters. The receiving device may send back a different pattern of numbers and or letters. Receipt of the second pattern may indicate a successful test. A time out may be used to indicate failure of the test. Both the success failure of the test and the time to complete may be stored as test results in the memory of the monitoring device for subsequent communication to the appropriate control component in the network. The message may of course include content other than just text such as multimedia content according to the particular aspect of the system being tested. The SMS related test may be repeated for the various communication technologies supported in the venue such as GSM UMTS and LTE according to their capabilities. Further while in some embodiments the tests may be directed to a single carrier network in other embodiments the tests are directed to test networks associated with networks of multiple carriers. In that way in situations where service agreements allow multiple carriers to use the DAS network congestion across multiple carriers may be tested. Based on the time to complete the test network latency associated with the particular tested network service such as messaging can be determined. The latency may be associated with loading of the network. If the latency is long the network can be assumed to be heavily loaded and turning on extra antennas or shifting spectrum from the macro cell to the DAS network may prove beneficial.

In addition while the destination address for a particular test may be external to the coverage area provided by the DAS antenna nodes in other tests the monitoring devices may send voice messaging and other tests to other monitoring devices in the venue with the monitoring devices responding in an appropriate manner to provide a voice connection or messaging response.

In still other tests location based services may be tested. A script may be run that requests a location based service be provided by the network. A predefined indication of a location based service from the network assuming the location of the monitoring device was successfully determined may be provided by the network. Based on receipt or lack thereof of that predefined indication of service the test can be determined to be a success or failure. A time out may be used to indicate a failure if the predefined indication of a location based service is not received within the necessary time. Time to complete the test may be used as an indication of latency.

Referring still to in the illustrated embodiment the monitoring devices can be seen to be placed in overlapping coverage areas. For example coverage area provided by DAS antenna overlaps with coverage area provided by DAS antenna . In addition macro cell provided by transmitter overlaps with multiple coverage areas of the DAS antennas. One aspect of the communication network that can be particularly wasteful of network resources in a communication environment such as shown in is soft handovers. During soft handovers a mobile device is connected to two transmitting antennas. For example the DAS antennas may not be able to overcome the noise floor present in the venue environment. As a result the mobile device may try to find a better signal which can be provided by macro cell . But many mobile devices may try to do the same thing at the same time making communication using the macro cell very difficult. Accordingly in one aspect when a soft handover rate is determined to be too high appropriate action is taken to try to reduce the rate of soft handovers as described further herein.

Each of the monitoring devices may have a specific identification ID that allows the carrier network to identify them. One or more probe components in the network may be turned on at particular times that parse network traffic for particular IDs associated with the monitoring devices. In an illustrative embodiment the test case as defined on the monitoring device executes and triggers the indicated probe s to start monitoring specific traffic associated with a particular test case. At the end of the test case the monitoring device triggers the indicated probes to stop monitoring the specific traffic related to the monitoring device test case. Having IDs uniquely associated with the monitoring devices allows communications associated with each monitoring device to be tracked at various locations using probe components. The probe components are represented at a high level as probe components and and are associated with various locations of the network. The probe components may be stored in the various network locations they are utilized. Thus e.g. multiple probe components may reside in the packet core network and the switched core network to track information flow through the network. The particular probe components that are turned on may be unique to the particular test case. Thus for example a short message service SMS test case may turn on multiple probes in the switched core network e.g. at the mobile switching center MSC and short message service center SMSC in the switched core network and multiple probes in the packet core network e.g. at the SGSN and the GGSM . The probe components may be turned on by the monitoring device sending a message to a particular universal resource locator URL address. The content of the message or the particular address may be used to indicate which probe components to enable. Operating specific probe components during the tests allows data collected from both the monitoring devices and the probe components to be analyzed and appropriate decision made to enhance coverage in areas covered by the monitoring devices.

An evaluation component receives the test results including the probe results associated with the tests. The test results are then correlated by the evaluation component to paint the picture of the performance of the network end to end. The evaluation component evaluates the test results to determine what changes to make to improve performance. The evaluation component may reside centrally at the network operations center see as shown or elsewhere in communication with a suitable control component to affect the necessary changes in network parameters. The evaluation component can generate a detailed picture of spectrum use that can be exploited to more efficiently allocate the available spectrum. For example as the evaluation component detects that traffic is getting heavier e.g. as the venue begins to fill with people more DAS antenna sites can be enabled. During half time of a sporting event more DAS antennas can be turned on in the vicinity of concessions and bathrooms to accommodate the surge in mobile devices present in those locations. Further based on the results from individual ones of the monitoring devices the specific locations in terms of level or seating area that need extra resources in terms of power spectrum and or number of DAS antennas can be identified. Further the antenna tilt of the macro tower can be adjusted. Power of the macro tower s and or the DAS network may be adjusted to provide additional resources to particular coverage areas. As the venue fills up additional power may be directed from the macro tower to the DAS antennas. As the venue empties the opposite may take place where additional power is directed to the macro tower and the power used by various ones of the DAS antennas may be reduced or the antennas completely powered off.

The collection of all of the data from the monitoring devices allows for accuracy in determining which sector and or antenna is having a specific performance issue. Because of advancements in the DAS radio equipment there are configuration capabilities in the DAS equipment that can influence overall DAS performance. These configurations are changed based on specific data points collected from the monitoring device dependent on the affected services. For example assume there is a centrally located concession stand in a sports stadium. During the game the performance of this sector is performing within its normal operating range. During half time this sector s network performance goes below what is considered acceptable. A determination can be quickly made as to what other sector s in the sports stadium are operating well above an acceptable level. The spectrum being utilized by those sector s operating well above an acceptable level can be bisected with a configuration change in the DAS equipment to move spectrum from the sector that was operating above acceptable and moved to the sector that was operating below normal. That may be accomplished by dividing the concession sector further and adding spectrum to the affected sector. The evaluation component may determine the soft handover rate is too high based on the number of failures from one or more of the monitoring devices over a particular time period. The evaluation component may determine that the latency through the network is inadequate based on probe data and or test results.

Once it is determined that soft handover rate or poor network performance is occurring based on the test data collected by the devices or by the probes in the network a control component in Network Operations Center can be used to adjust parameters associated with the DAS and or the macro cell such as increased antenna amplification in the affected DAS sector s add antennas in the affected DAS sector s bisect DAS sector s into additional DAS sectors to add spectrum decrease antenna amplification at the macro tower or adjust antenna tilt. Such parameters are intended to be illustrative and other parameters may be utilized to improve system performance depending on the particular system and the parameters available to tune system performance.

The control component may be implemented on one or more computer systems using software operating on the one or more computer systems in conjunction with necessary hardware for receiving requested actions from the evaluation component and providing control information to the DAS antennas and or macro cell towers to adjust parameters to improve performance. While shown as located in network operations center the control functionality may be distributed through the system as is appropriate to the particular network being monitored. Similarly the evaluation component may be implemented on one or more computer systems using software operating on the one or more computer systems in conjunction with necessary hardware for receiving test results and probe results and providing requested actions to the control component . The evaluation component may also provide management of the monitoring devices by e.g. providing test scripts and configuring various aspects of the monitoring devices. The control and evaluation components while shown as separate components may be combined and operate on a single computer system. Alternatively the evaluation and control components may be remote from each other.

While a DAS venue deployment with the monitoring devices such as shown in illustrates one embodiment deploying the monitoring devices in conjunction with a DAS deployment may be utilized in other DAS deployment scenarios. For example DAS networks may be deployed in office buildings campuses and other places where it may be difficult to build macro towers or coverage by macro towers is otherwise limited. Thus referring to an embodiment provides the monitoring devices in various neighborhoods in which a DAS deployment has taken place. The neighborhood may be a building campus venue or other area in which a DAS deployment is suitable. The monitoring devices monitor the network in a manner described in association with . Thus the monitoring devices may execute scripts that cause the monitoring devices to test network services such as voice messaging location based services and loading soft handoff bandwidth and other criteria associated with the DAS network. A group of the monitoring devices communicate with a site collector that interacts with the monitoring device to collect test information provide tests to the monitoring devices schedule tests and otherwise manage the monitoring devices. The site collector can collect status from the various monitoring devices and or deploy new test scripts or a special test script to obtain additional data about a particular aspect of the system. The site collector can evaluate key performance indicators. Thus the site collectors may provide management of the monitoring devices. Alternatively the individual monitoring devices may be managed from a more remote location such as from an evaluation component such as dashboard .

Dashboard represents the evaluation component such as evaluation component in and includes such functionality as collecting the test data from the various site collectors and the network probes see storing the test data in a database and analyzing the test data. The dashboard may determine whether certain threshold s associated e.g. with key performance indicators that are unique to the network in terms e.g. of soft handover rate or latency are being met and if not request that appropriate control is exercised over the network to improve performance in ways described herein. In addition the evaluation component can provide for test case design and for forwarding test cases to the site collectors for distribution to the monitoring devices. The dashboard may provide the site collectors with certain thresholds for analyzing data or key performance indicators. The allocation between management functions between functionality closer to the devices and more centrally located may be based on the configuration of the particular systems being controlled and the capabilities of the network.

Because of the diverse network monitoring suites available one advantage of the architecture shown in is that the architecture may be data only in design to allow for any system to interface with a standard application programming interface API to easily integrate the monitoring architecture into a diverse enterprise system architecture. While data parameters are collected on the test cases they may not necessarily be converted into specific key performance indicators KPIs or faults within the monitoring system e.g. the monitoring devices and site collectors . Definitions of such KPIs and faults may be determined by the interfacing enterprise systems such as the network shown in .

Consider a simple SMS test case involves a monitoring device sending a SMS message with a pattern e.g. 1111111111 . The receiving end responds with another pattern e.g. 0000000000 . The monitoring device records such information as the start time of the test the time that message was sent the time the message was received and the conclusion of the use case. The determination of the acceptable duration of each of these time intervals along with any intervals associated with probe data may be determined outside of the monitoring architecture. Thus the time stamps are determined by the test and evaluated externally to the monitoring devices. The monitoring device may only conduct the test case and record the defined data parameters. By turning on various probes the network data may also be analyzed.

In an embodiment the monitoring devices do not use scheduling of test cases by defined times. Instead the monitoring devices may use an always on approach. The run time window test cases are defined and managed centrally and retrieved by the monitoring device. The monitoring device may have a configuration file which determines how often it phones home to check for a new operating file. This operating file contains such information as the run time window test cases and test case list loop it should run. The run time window tells the monitoring device on which days and which time frames it should run the appropriate test case lists. This is a many to many relationship multiple run time windows to multiple use case lists. For example Run Time Window 1 08 00 20 00 Loop Test case list 1. This test case list could be 1 2 1 3 1 4 1 1 5 4 1 6. Notice that use test 1 is listed more often in the list to increase its run interval. The monitoring device would loop this list continuously during the run time window. Thus for an afternoon sports match the run time window may specify 10 00 to 18 00 on Saturday with the appropriate test case list.

The monitoring devices in the neighborhoods perform the same function as those in the venue shown in providing information as to the operation of the network. The information can be used to adjust parameters of the network being observed by the monitoring devices to better exploit available network resources such as spectrum antennas power and antenna tilt. For example the monitoring devices associated with a deployment in an office building or office campus may detect very light loading nights and weekends allowing more power and spectrum to be allocated to macro towers serving adjacent residential neighborhoods. Similarly during the workday macro cells associated with residential neighborhoods may have some of their spectrum allocated towards the DAS antennas.

The DAS deployment and accompanying monitoring devices may be deployed outside or inside. Referring to an embodiment illustrates monitoring devices deployed on poles . The monitoring devices deploy the segments 1 4 representing segment coverage areas provided by antennas. Note that the DAS antennas not shown in to simplify the figure are coupled to communications circuit and may be pole mounted on pole at or near the communications circuit . Referring to segment 3 the monitoring devices and are mounted on pole . Communications circuit may be associated with DAS equipment and provide a way to convert optical signals provided over optical fiber from a host unit to radio frequency RF signals from transmission over the DAS antenna and RF signals received on DAS antennas may be converted to optical signals from transmission back to host . The host unit communicates with base transceiver station over coaxial cables . The host unit and BTS may be disposed in a shelter enclosure . An Ethernet cable allows the monitoring devices to communicate over the Ethernet via communication circuit to the base transceiver station and through the BTS to appropriate monitoring device controllers. Note that the devices may be powered over Ethernet or powered over POTS in the manner of a conventional telephone.

The monitoring devices may communicate in a mesh network or an ad hoc network formed by the monitoring devices when other communication paths for a particular monitoring device are unavailable. For example WiFi may be used to communicate test information from monitoring devices and to another of the monitoring devices since test devices and in the embodiment illustrated lack an Ethernet connection. Thus to simplify installation and provide flexibility only some of the monitoring devices may have an Ethernet connection and are able to communicate over WiFi or other communication path with an adjacent monitoring device. In other installations a mesh network is entirely implemented using WiFi or other wireless communication technology.

As used in this application the term component is intended to refer to one or more specific functionalities in which the component can be either hardware such as a hardware associated with a computing system including one or more processors or a combination of hardware and software as part of a computing system or software in execution on a computing system or stored in computer readable media for execution. Thus the various entities or components described herein such as dashboard evaluation component control component and the probe components may be considered components. Both an application running on a computing system such as a server or network controller and the computing system may be a component. One or more components may reside within one or more applications and a component may be localized on one computer system and or distributed between two or more computer systems. Components may communicate via local and or remote access protocols over local or remote networks. Thus test results may be analyzed by one or more computer systems such as dashboard and the results of that analysis communicated to one or more other components to control the network to affect changes in the network related to the macro cells or DAS sectors.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing device including but not limited to embedded processors single core processors or multi core processors. Such processors are found in various computer systems from cell phones tables servers and the like. Such systems typically include memory components. It will be appreciated that the memory components or computer readable storage media described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM flash memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic storage including magnetic disks or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information and can be retrieved by the processor or other component.

The description set forth herein is illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. Other variations and modifications of the embodiments disclosed herein may be made based on the description set forth herein without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

