---

title: Requests for emergency services through an IPTV network
abstract: Systems and methods that request emergency services through an Internet-Protocol Television (IPTV) infrastructure. One embodiment comprises an IPTV network infrastructure comprising an IPTV server coupled to an IPTV set-top box of an end user that subscribes to IPTV services. The IPTV server receives a request for an emergency service from the end user through the IPTV set-top box. The infrastructure further includes a management server that receives the request for the emergency service from the IPTV server, and identifies information regarding the end user from an IPTV account of the end user. The infrastructure further includes a text message engine that receives the request for the emergency service from the management server, formats a text message for requesting the emergency service, inserts the information regarding the end user in the text message, and sends the text message to an emergency services center.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253514&OS=09253514&RS=09253514
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 09253514
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20130725
---
The invention is related to the field of communication systems and in particular to IPTV system technology.

Internet Protocol Television IPTV is a service through which television and other video content is delivered to an end user over a packet switched network such as the internet. An IPTV subscriber connects to an IPTV network in a similar way that a cable subscriber connects to a cable network. The IPTV subscriber receives a set top box STB from the IPTV provider and the set top box connects to the IPTV backend over a packet switched network. The physical connection between the IPTV backend and the set top box for example may be a Digital Subscriber Line xDSL fiber Ethernet etc. One or more servers within the IPTV backend then provide the television content to the set top box for viewing over the subscriber s television or other suitable display. The IPTV subscriber can view an Electronic Programming Guide EPG displayed by the set top box and select programs or videos to watch.

IPTV providers maintain a committed Quality of Service QoS for the IPTV service so that the content being viewed by a subscriber is not interrupted. IPTV providers are competing with cable Internet over the top OTT and satellite providers so they want subscribers to have a high quality viewing experience. Therefore the IPTV network is a closed network that is specifically designed to deliver IPTV content.

Embodiments described herein trigger emergency services through an IPTV network. An end user i.e. an IPTV subscriber is able to request emergency services such as 9 1 1 services through an IPTV set top box. For example the end user may press a pre assigned button on a remote control of the IPTV set top box. The set top box then forwards a request for an emergency service to an IPTV backend subsystem. Servers within the IPTV backend subsystem and Operations Support Systems OSS then contact an emergency services center such as a 9 1 1 center to dispatch emergency services to the location of the end user.

These embodiments advantageously provide an alternative way for an IPTV subscriber to contact emergency services. If the IPTV subscriber is not able to reach his her phone to call emergency services or is otherwise incapacitated then the IPTV subscriber can simply press a button on his her remote control to request the needed services.

One embodiment comprises an Internet Protocol Television IPTV network infrastructure. The infrastructure includes an IPTV server coupled to an IPTV set top box of an end user that subscribes to IPTV services. The IPTV server is configured to receive a request for an emergency service from the end user through the IPTV set top box. The infrastructure further includes a management server configured to receive the request for the emergency service from the IPTV server and to identify information regarding the end user from an IPTV account of the end user. The infrastructure further includes a text message engine configured to receive the request for the emergency service from the management server to format a text message for requesting the emergency service to insert the information regarding the end user in the text message and to send the text message to an emergency services center.

In one embodiment the text message indicates the emergency service requested by the end user such as fire ambulance or police.

In one embodiment the information regarding the end user includes a name an address and a phone number for the end user.

In one embodiment the request for the emergency service comprises a web service call such as a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP call. The web service call may include a parameter for the emergency service requested by the end user. The web service call may also include a parameter for an IP address associated with the IPTV set top box of the end user. Thus the management server may be configured to identify the IPTV account for the end user based on the IP address associated with the IPTV set top box.

In one embodiment the management server resides in an Operations Support System OSS of a telecommunications provider.

Another embodiment comprises a method of requesting emergency services through an IPTV network infrastructure. The method includes receiving at an IPTV server a request for an emergency service from an IPTV set top box of an end user that subscribes to IPTV services. The method further includes forwarding the request for the emergency service from the IPTV server to a management server. The method further includes identifying in the management server information regarding the end user from an IPTV account of the end user. The method further includes forwarding the request for the emergency service from the management server to a text message engine. The method further includes formatting a text message in the text message engine for requesting the emergency service inserting the information regarding the end user in the text message and sending the text message from the text message engine to an emergency services center.

Another embodiment comprises an IPTV network infrastructure comprising an IPTV server coupled to an IPTV set top box of an end user that subscribes to IPTV services. The IPTV server is configured to receive a web service call requesting an emergency service from the IPTV set top box. The infrastructure further includes a management server configured to receive the web service call from the IPTV server and to identify information regarding the end user from an IPTV account of the end user. The infrastructure further includes a text message engine configured to receive the web service call from the management server to format a text message for requesting the emergency service to insert the information regarding the end user in the text message and to send the text message to an emergency services center.

The figures and the following description illustrate specific exemplary embodiments of the invention. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the invention and are included within the scope of the invention. Furthermore any examples described herein are intended to aid in understanding the principles of the invention and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments or examples described below but by the claims and their equivalents.

Network is enhanced in the following embodiment to provide functionalities where the end user is able to request emergency services e.g. 9 1 1 services over network . In customer premises equipment includes an IPTV set top box STB and an IP TV gateway GW e.g. a residential gateway . IPTV set top box comprises a component or device that receives signals or a flow of data that includes IP TV content e.g. television on demand video EPG etc. from an external source and converts the signals or data flow into a format so that the IPTV content can be displayed on a television or other suitable display. In this embodiment IPTV set top box is connected to a television at the customer premises equipment . IPTV gateway comprises a component or device that provides connectivity to an access network or access link that delivers the IPTV content to customer premises equipment for the IPTV service.

IPTV set top box is enhanced in this embodiment to recognize a request for emergency services initiated by the end user. For example the end user may press a button on a remote control to initiate a request for emergency services. IPTV set top box then forwards the request for emergency services to IPTV network infrastructure for further processing. The operation of IPTV set top box is described in further detail below.

Network is referred to as access transport in because it represents both an access network to customer premises equipment and a transport network for the IPTV content. For example the access network in this embodiment may be DSL fiber Ethernet etc. The transport network in this embodiment is a packet switched PS or label switched MPLS network that typically uses IP as a network layer protocol.

IPTV network infrastructure includes components representing IPTV middleware and an IPTV backend subsystem . IPTV middleware includes a plurality of IPTV servers . IPTV servers are nodes in the infrastructure that deliver IPTV content to customer premises equipment and other IPTV customers . IPTV servers may store the actual IPTV content and deliver the content to customer premises equipment or may access other content servers and assist in delivering the content to customer premises equipment . In this embodiment IPTV server includes specialized components or applications to handle requests for emergency services from the end user which is described in further detail below in . IPTV server may operate in a similar manner as IPTV servers to deliver IPTV content to customer premises equipment or may be a dedicated server for handling requests for emergency services.

IPTV backend subsystem includes a management server and a text message engine . Management server comprises a component or device that maintains information regarding IPTV subscriptions for end users i.e. customers . For example management server may store a subscriber profile for each of its customers that includes a name an address and a phone number of the customer a level of service or subscription plan for the customer etc. Text message engine comprises a component or device that is operable to format a text message that requests emergency services. A text message as referred to herein may comprise a Short Messaging Service SMS message or a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS message.

IPTV backend subsystem may be implemented on the same platform as IPTV servers . Alternatively IPTV backend subsystem may be on an external platform. For example some IPTV service providers are part of or contract with a telecommunications provider. In these scenarios the IPTV backend subsystem may be part of an Operations Support System OSS of a telecommunications provider. For example one or both of management server and text message engine may be part of the OSS of a telecommunications provider.

Also illustrated in is an emergency services center . Emergency services center represents any type of equipment that is used to dispatch emergency services. For example emergency services center may represent a Public Safety Answering Point PSAP which is a call center that answers emergency calls such as 9 1 1 calls. In this embodiment emergency services center is equipped with functionality to receive and process text messages.

Assume for the following embodiment that the end user encounters a situation where emergency services are needed. For example there may be a fire at the end user s home or the end user may have a medical emergency. Typically the end user would pick up his her phone and call a dedicated number for emergency services such as 9 1 1 in the United States or 1 1 2 in Europe. However if the end user is not able to reach a phone the end user is able to summon emergency services through the IPTV network.

The signal from remote control may indicate a type of emergency service requested by the end user. For example there may be a dedicated button for fire police and ambulance on remote control . Alternatively IPTV set top box may query the end user to select a type of emergency service that is requested. illustrates a menu displayed to the end user by IPTV set top box in an exemplary embodiment. IPTV set top box displays a menu on television with options for emergency services such as fire police and ambulance . The end user can then use remote control to select the desired emergency service from menu .

After the end user presses the appropriate button on remote control IPTV set top box forwards a request for an emergency service to IPTV network infrastructure through IPTV gateway and access transport network . IPTV network infrastructure then operates to deliver the request for the emergency service to emergency services center . This operation is illustrated in .

In step IPTV server receives the request for the emergency service that was sent from IPTV set top box . The request for the emergency service may be in any suitable format that is understood by IPTV server . In one embodiment the request for the emergency service may be in the form of a web service call or function call for an emergency service which is a request for a particular web service. For example the web service call may be 

This web service call may include parameters such as an identifier for IPTV set top box e.g. a Global Unique Identifier Number GUID an IP address assigned to customer premises equipment e.g. an IP address associated with IPTV set top box IP TV gateway and the emergency services option selected by the end user e.g. fire police or ambulance . Although HTTP is used for the web service call is this example the web service call may be in another protocol such as SOAP ParlayX REST OneAPI etc.

In step IPTV server forwards the request for the emergency service to management server . In forwarding the request IPTV server may format and transmit the same or another web service call as described above. Thus the request for the emergency service sent from IPTV server may include the same parameters as described above.

In response to receiving the request from IPTV server management server identifies information regarding the end user based on an IPTV account of the end user in step . For example management server may identify an IPTV account or subscriber profile for the end user based on the identifier e.g. IP address assigned to the subscriber s home router residential gateway during the DHCP process for IPTV set top box that was included in the request for emergency services. Management server may then process the subscriber profile to identify through the IP address and access port the name associated with the IPTV account the address associated with the IPTV account the phone number associated with the IPTV account and other information. As stated above management server may be part of an OSS of a telecommunications provider. Thus management server may have access to an Order Management System OMS a Customer Relations Management CRM system and or a Billing Business Support System BSS to access information regarding the end user.

In step management server forwards the request for the emergency service to text message engine with the information regarding the end user. To do so management server may format and transmit a web service call to text message engine such as an HTTP web service call a SOAP web service call etc. The web service call may include the name address and phone number associated with the end user along with the other parameters such as the option for emergency services selected by the end user such as fire police or ambulance.

In response to the request from management server text message engine formats a text message for requesting the emergency service in step . Text message engine then inserts the information regarding the end user in the text message in step . For example text message engine may insert the name address and phone number associated with the end user into the text message. Text message engine may also insert an indicator of a specific type of emergency service as requested by the end user such as fire police or ambulance. Text message engine may insert any other desired information in the text message to summon the emergency service desired by the end user.

Text message engine then transmits the text message to emergency services center in step . In response to the text message emergency services center will dispatch fire police or ambulance services based on the request from the end user.

The network described above advantageously gives the end user another option for requesting emergency services. If the end user is not able to place a phone call to 9 1 1 then the end user has the option to summon emergency services through the IPTV network and get the needed assistance.

Any of the various elements or modules shown in the figures or described herein may be implemented as hardware software firmware or some combination of these. For example an element may be implemented as dedicated hardware. Dedicated hardware elements may be referred to as processors controllers or some similar terminology. When provided by a processor the functions may be provided by a single dedicated processor by a single shared processor or by a plurality of individual processors some of which may be shared. Moreover explicit use of the term processor or controller should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software and may implicitly include without limitation digital signal processor DSP hardware a network processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other circuitry field programmable gate array FPGA read only memory ROM for storing software random access memory RAM non volatile storage logic or some other physical hardware component or module.

Also an element may be implemented as instructions executable by a processor or a computer to perform the functions of the element. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to perform the functions of the element. The instructions may be stored on storage devices that are readable by the processor. Some examples of the storage devices are digital or solid state memories magnetic storage media such as a magnetic disks and magnetic tapes hard drives or optically readable digital data storage media.

Although specific embodiments were described herein the scope of the invention is not limited to those specific embodiments. The scope of the invention is defined by the following claims and any equivalents thereof.

