---

title: Automatically adjusting display areas to reduce power consumption
abstract: In an embodiment, a method includes receiving user interface information having event registrations for a user interface to be displayed on a display of a system, partitioning the display into an unused display area and an active display area based on the event registrations, and power managing the unused display area while maintaining the active display area fully powered. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436269&OS=09436269&RS=09436269
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09436269
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130516
---
Embodiments relate to computing devices and more particularly to power management for displays of such computing devices.

Battery powered portable electronic devices such as mobile form factor devices are useful only as long as the battery has enough charge. Device features that are active or running however may affect how long the battery stays charged some features may consume more battery power than others may. If battery consuming features are enabled the battery may need to be recharged more frequently. If however such features are not enabled a user may lose a benefit of the portable electronic device. To avoid complete loss of such a benefit the user may resort to frequent enabling and disabling of a particular device feature.

The display of a portable electronic device is a feature that is a big consumer of battery charge. This may be exacerbated if the device display is relatively large compared to the device size as a whole. Since a user typically interacts with the portable electronic device through an interface displayed on the display screen the user cannot simply turn off the display and still use other features of the portable electronic device. Thus to save battery the user may turn the display completely off or dim the light for the entire display. But to use the portable electronic device it may be necessary to turn the display back on increase the intensity of the display light or both.

An embodiment of a portable electronic device may conserve power while in a normal operating mode by switching from an original screen mode to an adjusted screen mode. While in adjusted screen mode the device display may include at least one active display area and at least one inactive display area. An extract from a user interface may be displayed in the active display area and the adjustable display area may be adjusted to occupy less than the entire display screen. Thus at least a portion of the adjusted display area perimeter may be adjacent to the inactive display area which may extend to the periphery of the display screen. Thus the inactive display area may fill the portion of the display screen that is not being used to display the extract of the user interface in the adjustable display area. The inactive display area may use less power than an active area such as the adjustable display area or a full size display screen. Thus while in the adjusted screen mode the display may not be turned off or entirely dimmed to conserve power and yet allow the user to see and or use at least a portion of an original interface in the adjusted display area.

Embodiments may further be used to automatically determine appropriate display areas to control to be in a reduced power mode based on content to be displayed. That is during a typical display of information on a display some parts of the display are not relevant for providing content or receiving user input. Accordingly such display portions may be controlled to be powered down or consume a lesser amount of power. For example on a desktop screen only icons shortcuts may be relevant and the background can be appropriately controlled to reduce power consumption. Embodiments may be used to automatically determine which display areas are not currently being used or less used and control them appropriately. Note that this automatic determination does not rely on any indications of power management or other information from applications that request display of information. Instead as discussed more fully below event registrations associated with display operations themselves may be used to guide display power management. The control may include in different embodiments causing these areas to be as black or white depending on the type of the display device reducing brightness and or resolution etc. Embodiments may automatically detect such areas and adjust the display areas for power saving without function sacrifice during normal use.

Although the scope of the present invention is not limited in this regard in an embodiment an operating system OS capability referred to herein as Display Area Auto adjustment Mode DAAM may be used to perform this automatic control. This mode may be triggered by an appropriate user selection. In DAAM the OS detects and adjusts some parts of the display automatically for power saving by dynamically analyzing the display based on the following principles. If there is no display response related events for example painting event touch event etc. registered for a given display area the OS may directly control the display area by turning off pixels or adjusting display areas for power saving directly. When controlling by turning off pixels to save power if there is a limited number of display response events or background related events for example slide long hold for shortcuts etc. registered for the display area a predetermined sub area is assigned for these functions and the rest of the display area is controlled for power saving.

In various embodiments DAAM is not influenced by any power mode. For example if the system enters a sleep state or performs a restart this mode still functions. In this way a user can keep power saving even after system reboot or power state changes. Optionally an additional function can be added to enable the user to modify a specific screen s active display areas if he she thinks the auto filtering provided by the OS is not appropriate. The OS may store this modification so that when that specific screen is shown a next time it will appear as modified by the user. Also the user can reset the mode back to auto filtering again if desired. In DAAM the OS may perform auto filtering dynamically every time the display changes. In some embodiments an icon or status bar may be used to indicate presence of DAAM mode to the user. Using DAAM in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention only relevant portions of a display may be powered. And this control may be performed automatically based on the current image to be displayed. Also DAAM provides the capability of large display power saving with only necessary screen areas displayed automatically and without large user experience sacrifice so the battery can last a longer time.

Referring to shown is a portable electronic device PED having a display . PED can be any type of portable electronic device such as a mobile telephone e.g. smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer an Ultrabook computer an electronic reader a gaming system a music player a camera a video recorder a scanner a printer a tool e.g. a die cut machine or other machine or tool having a display screen associated therewith and the like. Similarly the display can be any type of display such as a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display and or an organic light emitting diode OLED display to name a few general examples. Furthermore the display may include a touch screen that is sensitive to both single touch and two or more simultaneous touches. The touch screen may be any type of touch screen such as resistive or capacitive e.g. self mutual projected acoustic wave and or infrared IR sensitive or having touch sensors.

As seen in a lock screen image is presented. This lock screen may be displayed when PED is in a standby mode waiting for a user input such as by way of a slide gesture to enable the device for further operation. Using an embodiment of the present invention in a DAAM mode a large portion of the display area of display namely display area may be automatically identified as a useless area and accordingly can be controlled to be in a powered off state thus reducing power consumption of the display. Other areas of display namely display areas may be in an active state. That is these display areas may have events registered to them such as display events or response events. Specifically display areas provide status information viewable in DAAM mode while display area indicates a location for user input such as via a touch screen overlaid on display . Note that each image present in the active display areas may be one of text or a graphic such as an icon a tile a button a menu item a photograph or so forth.

Inactive display area corresponds to the part of the display screen that is not an active display area. Inactive display area may be turned off at rest or otherwise not available for active use. For an example in an embodiment inactive display area may be black. But the actual appearance of inactive display area may depend on the display type e.g. LCD OLED display design how inactive display area is created and combinations thereof.

For example in an embodiment display may include liquid crystal display LCD technology such as thin film transistor TFT LCD technology and or in plane switching IPS LCD technology. Since liquid crystals do not emit light an LCD display may include a light source such as a backlight or an edge light. A backlight may include one or more display lights such as lamps e.g. hot or cold cathode fluorescent lamps or light emitting diodes LEDs . In an embodiment the display lights of a backlight may cover all e.g. full array or part e.g. sparse array of the back of the display screen. In an embodiment the one or more display lights may be located at the edge of the display to create the edge light. An edge light may be used as an alternative to the backlight or in addition to the backlight.

Generally and at a very high level liquid crystals act as a gate that may prevent or variably allow light from the display lights to pass through subpixels e.g. one each for red green and blue . Whether or not light passes through a subpixel that is at rest e.g. none or little varying electrical charge applied to subpixel transistor may depend on the design of the LCD.

In an embodiment pixels and or subpixels in inactive display area may be at rest receiving little if any electrical charge. Thus inactive display area may be dark if light from display lights is blocked while the pixels subpixels are at rest. Alternatively inactive display area may be white or another color depending on how much charge is applied to subpixels if light from display lights is not blocked while the subpixels are at rest. As such an embodiment should not be limited to a particular color of inactive display area . For ease of reference inactive display area is unfilled white in .

Furthermore in an embodiment the LCD display lights may be selectively dimmed or turned off to create or augment inactive display area . Such dimming turning off may affect the color of inactive display area making it appear dark or even black. For example in an embodiment the LCD display lights may be a full or scattered array of LEDs. A controller may selectively dim or turn off the LEDs proximate inactive display area making inactive display area darker than the active display areas . The LEDs proximate the active display area however may be at the same or similar intensity as in a non power saving mode. Thus if display lights proximate pixels that define inactive display area are dimmed or turned off inactive display area may be dark even if resting pixels subpixels do not block light.

Not all displays utilize an external light source. For example displays using organic light emitting diode OLED technology do not use a backlight or edge light. OLEDs can be fluorescent active matrix phosphorescent transparent and combinations thereof. Generally and at a very high level OLED pixels emit photons in response to receiving an electrical charge which is why an external light source is not required for an OLED display. Thus in an embodiment inactive display area may result from OLED pixels that are at rest receiving little if any charge. The appearance of inactive display area may be a function of what the display screen looks like when OLED pixels are at rest. If no photons are emitted then inactive display area may be dark. In an embodiment the organic material may be a phosphorescent organic material e.g. PHOLED . PHOLED displays may consume less power than LCD displays and produce intense color.

Taking the forgoing together display may use less power including battery power when in DAAM than when PED is in a standard normal use operating mode. Furthermore the degree to which power is saved may depend on several factors such as display type e.g. LCD OLED external display lights e.g. type distribution selective use and the size of inactive display area .

Generally images or graphics rendered on display may be processed by a display adapter graphics adapter graphics accelerator graphics engine graphics co processor a digital signal processor DSP a central processor graphics processing unit GPU and or any other graphics hardware or software and combinations thereof. For example a display adapter may include one or more GPUs and or one or more controllers. The display adapter may process data for graphics rendering and may convert rendered patterns e.g. bitmap into signals for display screen. This is but one high level example of how images may be rendered on display screen embodiments are not limited by how images are rendered on display .

Display may be switched into DAAM in response to a user command such as input received from the touch screen accelerometer or gyroscope. Switching into this mode may also be in response to user input received from a keyboard menu selection mouse clicks and the like.

In an embodiment display may also be automatically switched into DAAM such as if selected by the user as the default display mode or in response to detecting that the battery is has reached a predetermined threshold. For example if the battery reaches a capacity that is at or below a certain percentage of total battery capacity e.g. 30 25 20 15 10 5 display may be automatically switched to DAAM to conserve the remainder of the battery power. Furthermore display may be controlled to be in a DAAM configuration e.g. size placement of reduced size display area and inactive display area determined to use the least amount of battery while still being of benefit to the user. In an embodiment display screen configuration responsive to a determination of a low battery may be a default configuration or one that is preconfigured by the user. Additionally the threshold battery level at which display is switched to DAAM may be a default value or a value designated by the user.

Referring now to shown is an illustration of another portable device providing for a display in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in computing device may be a tablet computer or other portable electronic device having a display .

In the illustration shown in a desktop screen is presented that includes a plurality of active display areas . As seen each of these active display areas corresponds to an icon that enables a user selection of an application or other function. An additional display area is used to present a variety of selectable functionalities or user notifications. In addition a display area may be provided in DAAM. This area is not of a given user interface as would appear in non DAAM operation and instead is generated in DAAM to provide certain functionality in a reduced display area increasing power saving opportunities.

In the embodiment shown display area enables a user to perform various background touch functions such as via a move left button and a move right button as well as a command shortcut button . As will be described further herein display area is displayed instead of other content that would either be located in this or another portion of the display in non DAAM operation. As a result a remainder of display namely an inactive display area can be maintained in a powered down state or other state to reduce power consumption. Thus where a limited amount of events are registered for activity in a particular display area this reduced sub display area may enable greater power savings by actively modifying the otherwise present display information.

Inactive area is turned off adjusted for power saving and only active display areas will respond to touch operations. To replace the traditional touch operations for the background display area is thus provided e.g. by the OS to include several virtual buttons. In this way the OS can realize greater power savings during normal use with the unused or useless display areas adjusted automatically. Note also that this auto adjustment capability is in addition to other capabilities of the OS e.g. adjusting lights adjusting voice volume etc. .

Referring now to shown is a flow diagram of a method for performing automatic display adjustments in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in method may be performed using various hardware of a system. For example a processor such as a central processing unit CPU may be used to execute the method. More specifically an operating system OS that executes on the CPU may perform some or all of method .

As seen method begins by receiving a user selection of a display area automatic adjustment mode DAAM block . This selection may be via a user selection of a configurable platform setting which may be one of many different power management settings or display settings. Next control passes to block where the display can be configured for this display mode. In an embodiment this configuration may include setting an enable flag or other indicator in a configuration storage to indicate that the display is to operate according to this mode.

Still referring to control next passes to block where user interface information may be received in the OS. This user interface information may correspond to details regarding information to be displayed on the display for a given user interface. Such interface information may include for example an indication of the information to be displayed or a lock screen a home screen or another graphical user interface to be presented on the display. In addition this user interface information may include event registrations which indicate display events user response events and so forth. As an example the events are registered or invoked to the OS by software having a graphical user interface to be shown. Various events such as touch events painting events to refresh the user interface and so forth may be registered. From these events registered invoked the OS can determine which part s of the user interface is waiting for a response of a given kind of event e.g. a touch input or to refresh the display for a given part of the user interface.

Referring still to control passes to block where the display can be partitioned into a plurality of display areas. More specifically different regions of the display can be identified based on the information to be presented in the given region. As shown in the display can be partitioned into one or more unused display areas in which no display or user input is to take place one or more minimally used display areas in which background information or a limited amount of information is to be displayed and one or more active display areas in which all or a large portion of the area is to be active to display content or to enable receipt of user input such as by way of a touch screen adapted upon the display. After partitioning the display into these one or more different display areas control passes to block where the unused display areas may be power managed according to a first technique. Note that different techniques are possible and may be based on user selection of an appropriate technique to reduce power consumption. Examples of different techniques include powering off such unused display areas reducing a brightness and or resolution of such display areas among other such operations. For purposes of discussion assume that the first technique is powering off the unused display areas. By power managing these unused display areas significant power savings may be realized for the system.

Control next passes to block where minimally used display areas may be power managed according to either this first technique or a second technique. Assume still that the first technique is a power off technique. In this instance the second technique may include reducing brightness and or resolution or reducing an amount of information presented in such display areas. Finally at block the active display areas may remain fully powered such that the content within these display areas remains fully visible to the user. Although shown at this high level in the embodiment of understand the scope of the present invention is not limited in this regard.

Now referring to shown is a flow diagram of a detailed method for automatically adjusting display areas in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Method of also may be performed by an OS as discussed above. As seen method begins at block by receiving user interface information in the OS. This user interface information may be as described above.

Next at diamond it can be determined whether an additional display area is to be analyzed. This determination may be based on an implementation in which a display is partitioned into different display areas e.g. based on various regular or irregular regions of the display. In some embodiments the partitioning may be based on grouping of display regions based on the content to be displayed. Control next passes to diamond where it can be determined whether a display event and or a response event is registered for this display area. Registration of a display event corresponds to an indication that content is to be rendered in the display area such as graphical or textual information an icon or other user selection indicator. Registration of a response event corresponds to an indication that a touch screen or other human interface device is enabled to receive a user input within this display area. If no such events are registered for the display area as determined at diamond control passes to block where the display area may be adjusted directly. Depending on a particular mode selected this direct control may be by powering off the display area reducing its brightness resolution or other parameters.

If instead one or more events are registered for this display area control passes to diamond where it is determined whether one or more background events are registered for the display area. If not control passes to diamond to determine whether a number of display response events for this display area is less than a given threshold. Note that this threshold may be a predetermined number of events for this display area a predetermined portion of the display area or so forth. If the determination at diamond is in the negative control passes to block where the display area may be maintained powered on as a significant portion of this display area is to be used to display content and or receive user input.

Still referring to if the determinations at diamonds or are in the positive control passes to diamond where it is determined whether the automatic display adjustment mode is configured to power off appropriate display areas. If not control passes to block where the display area may be directly adjusted such as by controlling its resolution brightness and or other such parameters.

If instead the display adjustment mode is configured for powering off appropriate regions control next passes to diamond to determine whether the portion of the display area having valid events is greater than a threshold area. If so control passes to block to enable the display to be maintained. Otherwise if the area with valid events is greater than the threshold amount a sub display area may be defined and a control panel can be maintained in this area that enables a user selection to cause display of the otherwise present material. Thus here the method operates to provide a selectable control panel sub display and maintain the rest of the display area powered off block . As such the method operates to modify the information that otherwise would have been displayed in this display area in non DAAM operation. Although shown at this high level in the embodiment of understand the scope of the present invention is not limited in this regard.

Referring now to shown is a flow diagram of a high level view of a method for performing automatic display adjustments in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in method may be executed in a processor or other hardware e.g. responsive to OS instructions. Method begins at block by receiving a user input to enter into a DAAM mode. In an embodiment this selection may be by user selection of a DAAM mode button e.g. as part of a control panel or other configuration setting menu. Accordingly control passes to block where useless display areas may be detected based on registered events. That is as discussed above for a given display screen such as a user interface the OS or other logic may detect useless display areas based on a lack of registered events such as display events e.g. painting event response events e.g. touch event or any other such events that indicate activity in a particular display area. In an embodiment display drivers or other interface mechanisms provide these event registrations to the OS which in turn may generate a display area table including a plurality of entries each having an identification of a particular display area on the display and an indication of whether the display area is to be active or is a minimally used or useless display area as discussed above.

Next control passes to block where the useless display areas may be adjusted for power savings. This adjustment may be by powering off such display areas or other control to reduce power consumption. Note that depending on the type of display area such as a minimally used display area or a useless display area the logic may further optionally assign a specific sub display area within the display area to provide a function summary such as by way of a control panel to enable user input to then access additional information on the display.

Note as different user interfaces or other display screens are selected for display method iterates between blocks and . In addition should the user choose to exit the DAAM mode control passes to block where a user input to exit this mode can be received again by way of a selection of a configuration or other menu setting. Accordingly method may conclude and user interfaces and other display screens may be presented on the display in their original unedited form with no power savings.

The processor is shown including execution logic having a set of execution units through N. Some embodiments may include a number of execution units dedicated to specific functions or sets of functions. Other embodiments may include only one execution unit or one execution unit that can perform a particular function. The execution logic performs the operations specified by code instructions.

After completion of execution of the operations specified by the code instructions back end logic retires the instructions of the code . In an embodiment the processor core allows out of order execution but requires in order retirement of instructions. Retirement logic may take a variety of forms as known to those of skill in the art e.g. re order buffers or the like . In this manner the processor core is transformed during execution of the code at least in terms of the output generated by the decoder the hardware registers and tables utilized by the register renaming logic and any registers not shown modified by the execution logic .

Although not illustrated in a processing element may include other elements on chip with the processor core . For example a processing element may include memory control logic along with the processor core . The processing element may include I O control logic and or may include I O control logic integrated with memory control logic. The processing element may also include one or more caches.

Embodiments may be implemented in many different system types. Referring now to shown is a block diagram of a system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in multiprocessor system is a point to point interconnect system and includes a first processor and a second processor coupled via a point to point interconnect . As shown in each of processors and may be multicore processors including first and second processor cores i.e. processor cores and and processor cores and although potentially many more cores may be present in the processors. Each of the processors can execute an OS or other logic to perform DAAM operations as described herein.

Still referring to first processor further includes a memory controller hub MCH and point to point P P interfaces and . Similarly second processor includes a MCH and P P interfaces and . As shown in MCH s and couple the processors to respective memories namely a memory and a memory which may be portions of system memory e.g. DRAM locally attached to the respective processors. First processor and second processor may be coupled to a chipset via P P interconnects and respectively. As shown in chipset includes P P interfaces and .

Furthermore chipset includes an interface to couple chipset with a high performance graphics engine by a P P interconnect . In turn chipset may be coupled to a first bus via an interface . As shown in various input output I O devices may be coupled to first bus along with a bus bridge which couples first bus to a second bus . Various devices may be coupled to second bus including for example a keyboard mouse communication devices and a data storage unit such as a disk drive or other mass storage device which may include code in one embodiment. Further an audio I O may be coupled to second bus . Embodiments can be incorporated into other types of systems including mobile devices such as a smart cellular telephone tablet computer netbook Ultrabook or so forth.

The diagram of illustrates functional components of an embodiment of a system. In some cases the component may be a hardware component a software component or a combination of hardware and software. Some of the components may be application level software while other components may be operating system level components. In some cases the connection of one component to another may be a close connection where two or more components are operating on a single hardware platform. In other cases the connections may be made over network connections spanning long distances. Each embodiment may use different hardware software and interconnection architectures to achieve the functions described.

As shown in system is implemented in various layers. At a high level a user experience is provided that enables the user to interface with various features of a system. To this end a set of application frameworks is provided. Each of these application frameworks may correspond to applications that are optimized for particular type of platform. For example application framework is optimized for Ultrabook systems handset application framework is optimized for handset based systems such as smartphones and application framework is optimized for other types of platforms such as a tablet computer or other type of system. Understand of course that many other types of application frameworks may be presented.

To enable interaction between these frameworks and a core OS an application programming interface API layer is provided. As seen in core OS includes various components . Each of these components provides support for various functionality of the system. Particular reference here is made to a graphics component that may implement DAAM in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As further illustrated in hardware is provided. Hardware may constitute the bare metal hardware of the platform and can include at a high level one or more processors one or more memories including volatile and non volatile memories mass storage one or more displays user interfaces and other typical system hardware. Although shown at this high level in the embodiment of understand the scope of the present invention is not limited in this regard.

In an embodiment use of the term control logic includes hardware such as transistors registers or other hardware such as programmable logic device control logic may also include software or code which may be integrated with hardware such as firmware or micro code. A processor or controller may include control logic intended to represent any of a wide variety of control logic known in the art and as such may well be implemented as a microprocessor a micro controller a field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic device PLD and the like.

The following examples pertain to further embodiments. Specifics in the examples may be used anywhere in one or more embodiments.

In one example a system comprises a processor to execute instructions and including a logic to configure a display for a first mode in which the display is partitioned into a plurality of display areas and to control at least one first display area to operate at a first power consumption level and to control at least one second display area to operate at a second power consumption level based on event registration information for a first user interface to be displayed on the display. The system further includes the display to display the first user interface and HID associated with the display.

In an embodiment the at least one first display area is to operate at the first power consumption level in the first mode and at the second power consumption level in a second mode the first power consumption level less than the second power consumption level. The at least one first display area may be powered off at the first power consumption level. The at least one second display area comprises an active display area and the at least one first display area comprises an unused display area.

In an embodiment the logic is to maintain a control panel in a sub display portion of the first display area and power off a remaining portion of the first display area where the control panel includes a first selection button and a second selection button. The at least one first display area may be controlled to have at least one of a reduced brightness and a reduced resolution in the first mode.

In an example the processor comprises a system on a chip SoC incorporated in a user equipment touch enabled device.

In another example a system comprises a display and a memory and includes the processor of one or more of the above examples.

As another example an apparatus for controlling a display includes means for receiving user interface information for a user interface to be displayed on the display means for determining whether a display event or a response event is registered for a first display area of the display based on the user interface information and means for adjusting the first display area to reduce power consumption of the first display area.

In an embodiment the apparatus further includes means for determining whether a background related event is registered for a second display area of the display.

In an embodiment the apparatus further includes means for comparing a number of events in the second display area to a threshold.

In an embodiment the apparatus further includes means for determining whether a portion of the second display area having events is greater than a threshold area and if so maintaining a control panel in a sub display portion of the second display area and powering off a remaining portion of the second display area.

As an example the control panel may include at least a first selection button and a second selection button to enable the user to access additional selected items.

In different embodiments the display area adjustment comprises controlling a brightness of the first display area and or powering down the first display area.

In an embodiment the apparatus further includes means for receiving a user selection of a display area adjustment mode and configuring the display for the display area adjustment mode responsive thereto.

In an embodiment the apparatus further includes means for partitioning the display into a first plurality of display areas and a second plurality of display areas and enabling the first plurality of display areas and powering down the second plurality of display areas e.g. based on the user interface information.

Another example is directed to a method for receiving user interface information including event registrations for a user interface to be displayed on a display of a system in a first logic of the system partitioning the display into at least one unused display area and at least one active display area based on the event registrations power managing the at least one unused display area and maintaining the at least one active display area fully powered.

In an embodiment the method includes power managing at least one minimally used display area where the at least one minimally used display area is power managed differently than the at least one unused display area.

In an embodiment the method includes power managing the at least one minimally used display area by adjusting a brightness thereof.

In an embodiment the method further includes power managing the at least one minimally used display area by displaying a control panel in a first portion of the at least one minimally used display area and powering down a second portion of the at least one minimally used display area.

In an embodiment the method further includes receiving a user selection of a display area automatic adjustment mode and configuring the display for the display area automatic adjustment mode responsive thereto.

In an embodiment the method further includes partitioning a first display area into the at least one unused display area if no display event is registered for the first display area and partitioning a second display area into at least one minimally used display area if a background related event is registered for the second display area.

In an example a machine readable medium includes code when executed to cause a machine to perform the method of any of the above described examples.

In another example an apparatus comprises means to perform a method of any of the above described examples.

In another example at least one storage medium has instructions stored thereon for causing a system to receive user interface information for a user interface to be displayed on a display of the system determine whether a display event or a response event is registered for a first display area of the display based on the user interface information and if not adjust the first display area to reduce power consumption of the first display area.

In an example the at least one storage medium further comprises instructions to determine whether a background related event is registered for a second display area of the display.

In an example the at least one storage medium further comprises instructions to compare a number of events in the second display area to a threshold.

In an example the at least one storage medium further comprises instructions to determine whether a portion of the second display area having events is greater than a threshold area and if so maintain a control panel in a sub display portion of the second display area and power off a remaining portion of the second display area.

In an example the at least one storage medium further comprises instructions to receive a user selection of a display area adjustment mode and to configure the display for the display area adjustment mode responsive thereto.

In an example the at least one storage medium further comprises instructions to partition the display into a first plurality of display areas and a second plurality of display areas and to enable the first plurality of display areas and to power down the second plurality of display areas.

In an example the at least one storage medium further comprises instructions to partition the display based on the user interface information.

Embodiments may be used in many different types of systems. For example in one embodiment a communication device can be arranged to perform the various methods and techniques described herein. Of course the scope of the present invention is not limited to a communication device and instead other embodiments can be directed to other types of apparatus for processing instructions or one or more machine readable media including instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device cause the device to carry out one or more of the methods and techniques described herein.

An embodiment may be implemented in program code or instructions which may be stored in for example volatile and or non volatile memory such as storage devices and or an associated machine readable or machine accessible medium including but not limited to floppy disks optical storage solid state memory hard drives tapes flash memory memory sticks digital video disks digital versatile discs DVDs etc. as well as more exotic mediums such as machine accessible biological state preserving storage. A machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing transmitting or receiving information in a form readable by a machine and the medium may include a medium through which the program code may pass such as antennas optical fibers communications interfaces etc. Program code may be transmitted in the form of packets serial data parallel data etc. and may be used in a compressed or encrypted format.

While the present invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate numerous modifications and variations therefrom. It is intended that the appended claims cover all such modifications and variations as fall within the true spirit and scope of this present invention.

