---

title: Ad-hoc media presentation based upon dynamic discovery of media output devices that are proximate to one or more users
abstract: In an embodiment, a device controller initiates a dynamic discovery procedure to detect media output devices that are currently in proximity to a user. The device controller determines a first subset of the detected media output devices configured to present a first media type (e.g., video, audio, etc.) to the user and a second subset of the detected media output devices configured to present a second media type (e.g., audio, video, etc.) to the user. The device controller directs first and second portions of media to the first and second subsets conjunctive presentation. In another embodiment, the first and/or second subsets can include two or more devices, such that the same media type can be presented by multiple devices (e.g., to achieve a surround sound effect, a split-screen or cloned video effect, etc.).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09131266&OS=09131266&RS=09131266
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09131266
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130808
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 682 050 entitled AD HOC MEDIA PRESENTATION BASED UPON DYNAMIC DISCOVERY OF MEDIA OUTPUT DEVICES THAT ARE PROXIMATE TO ONE OR MORE USERS filed Aug. 10 2012 by the same inventors as the subject application assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the invention relate to ad hoc media presentation based upon dynamic discovery of media output devices that are proximate to one or more users.

Media output devices are typically embedded in media source devices e.g. speakers on a cell phone or laptop computer the display on a cell phone or laptop computer or are set up in a fixed configuration e.g. a surround sound speaker system with speakers in fixed locations in a room connected to a receiver and or a media source a display device or television coupled to the receiver and or the media source . However it is generally difficult to set up a mobile devices to connect to proximate media output devices in their current environment. For example assume a user is at his her friend s house and is operating a cell phone and wants to play a song stored on the cell phone over speakers at the friend s house. The user can manually set up connections to the speakers e.g. via a wired or wireless connection to a receiver that is connected to the speakers etc. and then play the song but the process of setting up the connection between the cell phone and the speakers can be somewhat cumbersome.

In an embodiment a device controller initiates a dynamic discovery procedure to detect media output devices that are currently in proximity to a user. The device controller determines a first subset of the detected media output devices configured to present a first media type e.g. video audio etc. to the user and a second subset of the detected media output devices configured to present a second media type e.g. audio video etc. to the user. The device controller directs first and second portions of media to the first and second subsets conjunctive presentation. In another embodiment the first and or second subsets can include two or more devices such that the same media type can be presented by multiple devices e.g. to achieve a surround sound effect a split screen or cloned video effect etc. .

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action e.g. described in more detail below with respect to .

Certain embodiments of the invention relate to or are at least compatible with Internet of Things IoT implementations. As used herein the term Internet of Things device or IoT device may refer to any object e.g. an appliance a sensor etc. that has an addressable interface e.g. an Internet protocol IP address a Bluetooth identifier ID a near field communication NFC ID etc. and can transmit information to one or more other devices over a wired or wireless connection. An IoT device may have a passive communication interface such as a quick response QR code a radio frequency identification RFID tag an NFC tag or the like or an active communication interface such as a modem a transceiver a transmitter receiver or the like. An IoT device can have a particular set of attributes e.g. a device state or status such as whether the IoT device is on or off open or closed idle or active available for task execution or busy and so on a cooling or heating function an environmental monitoring or recording function a light emitting function a sound emitting function etc. that can be embedded in and or controlled monitored by a central processing unit CPU microprocessor ASIC or the like and configured for connection to an IoT network such as a local ad hoc network or the Internet. For example IoT devices may include but are not limited to refrigerators toasters ovens microwaves freezers dishwashers dishes hand tools clothes washers clothes dryers furnaces air conditioners thermostats televisions light fixtures vacuum cleaners sprinklers electricity meters gas meters etc. so long as the devices are equipped with an addressable communications interface for communicating with the IoT network. IoT devices may also include cell phones desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers personal digital assistants PDAs etc. Accordingly the IoT network may be comprised of a combination of legacy Internet accessible devices e.g. laptop or desktop computers cell phones etc. in addition to devices that do not typically have Internet connectivity e.g. dishwashers etc. .

Referring to IoT devices are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. an access point over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interface and a direct wired connection . The air interface can comply with a wireless Internet protocol IP such as IEEE 802.11. Although illustrates IoT devices communicating over the air interface and IoT device communicating over the direct wired connection each IoT device may communicate over a wired or wireless connection or both.

The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . The Internet is a global system of interconnected computers and computer networks that uses a standard Internet protocol suite e.g. the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and IP to communicate among disparate devices networks. TCP IP provides end to end connectivity specifying how data should be formatted addressed transmitted routed and received at the destination.

In a computer such as a desktop or personal computer PC is shown as connecting to the Internet directly e.g. over an Ethernet connection or Wi Fi or 802.11 based network . The computer may have a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which in an example can correspond to the access point itself e.g. for a Wi Fi router with both wired and wireless connectivity . Alternatively rather than being connected to the access point and the Internet over a wired connection the computer may be connected to the access point over air interface or another wireless interface and access the Internet over the air interface . Although illustrated as a desktop computer computer may be a laptop computer a tablet computer a PDA a smart phone or the like. The computer may be an IoT device and or contain functionality to manage an IoT network group such as the network group of IoT devices .

The access point may be connected to the Internet via for example an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem a digital subscriber line DSL modem or the like. The access point may communicate with IoT devices and the Internet using the standard Internet protocols e.g. TCP IP .

Referring to an IoT server is shown as connected to the Internet . The IoT server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. In an aspect the IoT server is optional as indicated by the dotted line and the group of IoT devices may be a peer to peer P2P network. In such a case the IoT devices can communicate with each other directly over the air interface and or the direct wired connection . Alternatively or additionally some or all of IoT devices may be configured with a communication interface independent of air interface and direct wired connection . For example if the air interface corresponds to a Wi Fi interface one or more of the IoT devices may have Bluetooth or NFC interfaces for communicating directly with each other or other Bluetooth or NFC enabled devices.

In a peer to peer network service discovery schemes can multicast the presence of nodes their capabilities and group membership. The peer to peer devices can establish associations and subsequent interactions based on this information.

In accordance with an aspect of the disclosure illustrates a high level architecture of another wireless communications system B that contains a plurality of IoT devices. In general the wireless communications system B shown in may include various components that are the same and or substantially similar to the wireless communications system A shown in which was described in greater detail above e.g. various IoT devices including a television outdoor air conditioning unit thermostat refrigerator and washer and dryer that are configured to communicate with an access point over an air interface and or a direct wired connection a computer that directly connects to the Internet and or connects to the Internet through access point and an IoT server accessible via the Internet etc. . As such for brevity and ease of description various details relating to certain components in the wireless communications system B shown in may be omitted herein to the extent that the same or similar details have already been provided above in relation to the wireless communications system A illustrated in .

Referring to the wireless communications system B may include a supervisor device which may alternatively be referred to as an IoT manager or IoT manager device . As such where the following description uses the term supervisor device those skilled in the art will appreciate that any references to an IoT manager group owner or similar terminology may refer to the supervisor device or another physical or logical component that provides the same or substantially similar functionality.

In one embodiment the supervisor device may generally observe monitor control or otherwise manage the various other components in the wireless communications system B. For example the supervisor device can communicate with an access network e.g. access point over air interface and or a direct wired connection to monitor or manage attributes activities or other states associated with the various IoT devices in the wireless communications system B. The supervisor device may have a wired or wireless connection to the Internet and optionally to the IoT server shown as a dotted line . The supervisor device may obtain information from the Internet and or the IoT server that can be used to further monitor or manage attributes activities or other states associated with the various IoT devices . The supervisor device may be a standalone device or one of IoT devices such as computer . The supervisor device may be a physical device or a software application running on a physical device. The supervisor device may include a user interface that can output information relating to the monitored attributes activities or other states associated with the IoT devices and receive input information to control or otherwise manage the attributes activities or other states associated therewith. Accordingly the supervisor device may generally include various components and support various wired and wireless communication interfaces to observe monitor control or otherwise manage the various components in the wireless communications system B.

The wireless communications system B shown in may include one or more passive IoT devices in contrast to the active IoT devices that can be coupled to or otherwise made part of the wireless communications system B. In general the passive IoT devices may include barcoded devices Bluetooth devices radio frequency RF devices RFID tagged devices infrared IR devices NFC tagged devices or any other suitable device that can provide its identifier and attributes to another device when queried over a short range interface. Active IoT devices may detect store communicate act on and or the like changes in attributes of passive IoT devices.

For example passive IoT devices may include a coffee cup and a container of orange juice that each have an RFID tag or barcode. A cabinet IoT device and the refrigerator IoT device may each have an appropriate scanner or reader that can read the RFID tag or barcode to detect when the coffee cup and or the container of orange juice passive IoT devices have been added or removed. In response to the cabinet IoT device detecting the removal of the coffee cup passive IoT device and the refrigerator IoT device detecting the removal of the container of orange juice passive IoT device the supervisor device may receive one or more signals that relate to the activities detected at the cabinet IoT device and the refrigerator IoT device . The supervisor device may then infer that a user is drinking orange juice from the coffee cup and or likes to drink orange juice from a coffee cup.

Although the foregoing describes the passive IoT devices as having some form of RFID tag or barcode communication interface the passive IoT devices may include one or more devices or other physical objects that do not have such communication capabilities. For example certain IoT devices may have appropriate scanner or reader mechanisms that can detect shapes sizes colors and or other observable features associated with the passive IoT devices to identify the passive IoT devices . In this manner any suitable physical object may communicate its identity and attributes and become part of the wireless communication system B and be observed monitored controlled or otherwise managed with the supervisor device . Further passive IoT devices may be coupled to or otherwise made part of the wireless communications system A in and observed monitored controlled or otherwise managed in a substantially similar manner.

In accordance with another aspect of the disclosure illustrates a high level architecture of another wireless communications system C that contains a plurality of IoT devices. In general the wireless communications system C shown in may include various components that are the same and or substantially similar to the wireless communications systems A and B shown in respectively which were described in greater detail above. As such for brevity and ease of description various details relating to certain components in the wireless communications system C shown in may be omitted herein to the extent that the same or similar details have already been provided above in relation to the wireless communications systems A and B illustrated in respectively.

The communications system C shown in illustrates exemplary peer to peer communications between the IoT devices and the supervisor device . As shown in the supervisor device communicates with each of the IoT devices over an IoT supervisor interface. Further IoT devices and IoT devices and and IoT devices and communicate directly with each other.

The IoT devices make up an IoT group . An IoT device group is a group of locally connected IoT devices such as the IoT devices connected to a user s home network. Although not shown multiple IoT device groups may be connected to and or communicate with each other via an IoT SuperAgent connected to the Internet . At a high level the supervisor device manages intra group communications while the IoT SuperAgent can manage inter group communications. Although shown as separate devices the supervisor device and the IoT SuperAgent may be or reside on the same device e.g. a standalone device or an IoT device such as computer in . Alternatively the IoT SuperAgent may correspond to or include the functionality of the access point . As yet another alternative the IoT SuperAgent may correspond to or include the functionality of an IoT server such as IoT server . The IoT SuperAgent may encapsulate gateway functionality .

Each IoT device can treat the supervisor device as a peer and transmit attribute schema updates to the supervisor device . When an IoT device needs to communicate with another IoT device it can request the pointer to that IoT device from the supervisor device and then communicate with the target IoT device as a peer. The IoT devices communicate with each other over a peer to peer communication network using a common messaging protocol CMP . As long as two IoT devices are CMP enabled and connected over a common communication transport they can communicate with each other. In the protocol stack the CMP layer is below the application layer and above the transport layer and the physical layer .

In accordance with another aspect of the disclosure illustrates a high level architecture of another wireless communications system D that contains a plurality of IoT devices. In general the wireless communications system D shown in may include various components that are the same and or substantially similar to the wireless communications systems A C shown in respectively which were described in greater detail above. As such for brevity and ease of description various details relating to certain components in the wireless communications system D shown in may be omitted herein to the extent that the same or similar details have already been provided above in relation to the wireless communications systems A C illustrated in respectively.

The Internet is a resource that can be regulated using the concept of the IoT. However the Internet is just one example of a resource that is regulated and any resource could be regulated using the concept of the IoT. Other resources that can be regulated include but are not limited to electricity gas storage security and the like. An IoT device may be connected to the resource and thereby regulate it or the resource could be regulated over the Internet . illustrates several resources such as natural gas gasoline hot water and electricity wherein the resources can be regulated in addition to and or over the Internet .

IoT devices can communicate with each other to regulate their use of a resource . For example IoT devices such as a toaster a computer and a hairdryer may communicate with each other over a Bluetooth communication interface to regulate their use of electricity the resource . As another example IoT devices such as a desktop computer a telephone and a tablet computer may communicate over a Wi Fi communication interface to regulate their access to the Internet the resource . As yet another example IoT devices such as a stove a clothes dryer and a water heater may communicate over a Wi Fi communication interface to regulate their use of gas. Alternatively or additionally each IoT device may be connected to an IoT server such as IoT server which has logic to regulate their use of the resource based on information received from the IoT devices.

In accordance with another aspect of the disclosure illustrates a high level architecture of another wireless communications system E that contains a plurality of IoT devices. In general the wireless communications system E shown in may include various components that are the same and or substantially similar to the wireless communications systems A D shown in respectively which were described in greater detail above. As such for brevity and ease of description various details relating to certain components in the wireless communications system E shown in may be omitted herein to the extent that the same or similar details have already been provided above in relation to the wireless communications systems A D illustrated in respectively.

The communications system E includes two IoT device groups A and B. Multiple IoT device groups may be connected to and or communicate with each other via an IoT SuperAgent connected to the Internet . At a high level an IoT SuperAgent may manage inter group communications among IoT device groups. For example in the IoT device group A includes IoT devices A A and A and an IoT SuperAgent A while IoT device group B includes IoT devices B B and B and an IoT SuperAgent B. As such the IoT SuperAgents A and B may connect to the Internet and communicate with each other over the Internet and or communicate with each other directly to facilitate communication between the IoT device groups A and B. Furthermore although illustrates two IoT device groups A and B communicating with each other via IoT SuperAgents A and B those skilled in the art will appreciate that any number of IoT device groups may suitably communicate with each other using IoT SuperAgents.

As shown in in an example configuration for the IoT device A an external casing of IoT device A may be configured with a display a power button and two control buttons A and B among other components as is known in the art. The display may be a touchscreen display in which case the control buttons A and B may not be necessary. While not shown explicitly as part of IoT device A the IoT device A may include one or more external antennas and or one or more integrated antennas that are built into the external casing including but not limited to Wi Fi antennas cellular antennas satellite position system SPS antennas e.g. global positioning system GPS antennas and so on.

While internal components of IoT devices such as IoT device A can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted over a network interface such as air interface in and or a wired interface. The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications. The platform can include one or more transceivers configured for wired and or wireless communication e.g. a Wi Fi transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver a cellular transceiver a satellite transceiver a GPS or SPS receiver etc. operably coupled to one or more processors such as a microcontroller microprocessor application specific integrated circuit digital signal processor DSP programmable logic circuit or other data processing device which will be generally referred to as processor . The processor can execute application programming instructions within a memory of the IoT device. The memory can include one or more of read only memory ROM random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. One or more input output I O interfaces can be configured to allow the processor to communicate with and control from various I O devices such as the display power button control buttons A and B as illustrated and any other devices such as sensors actuators relays valves switches and the like associated with the IoT device A.

Accordingly an aspect of the disclosure can include an IoT device e.g. IoT device A including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor e.g. processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example transceiver processor memory and I O interface may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the IoT device A in are to be considered merely illustrative and the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The passive IoT device B shown in may generally differ from the IoT device A shown in in that the passive IoT device B may not have a processor internal memory or certain other components. Instead in one embodiment the passive IoT device B may only include an I O interface or other suitable mechanism that allows the passive IoT device B to be observed monitored controlled managed or otherwise known within a controlled IoT network. For example in one embodiment the I O interface associated with the passive IoT device B may include a barcode Bluetooth interface radio frequency RF interface RFID tag IR interface NFC interface or any other suitable I O interface that can provide an identifier and attributes associated with the passive IoT device B to another device when queried over a short range interface e.g. an active IoT device such as IoT device A that can detect store communicate act on or otherwise process information relating to the attributes associated with the passive IoT device B .

Although the foregoing describes the passive IoT device B as having some form of RF barcode or other I O interface the passive IoT device B may comprise a device or other physical object that does not have such an I O interface . For example certain IoT devices may have appropriate scanner or reader mechanisms that can detect shapes sizes colors and or other observable features associated with the passive IoT device B to identify the passive IoT device B. In this manner any suitable physical object may communicate its identity and attributes and be observed monitored controlled or otherwise managed within a controlled IoT network.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. IoT device A and or passive IoT device B the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi Wi Fi Direct Long Term Evolution LTE Direct etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. the application the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration . The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM flash memory ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to the IoT device A as shown in and or the passive IoT device B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display . In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to the IoT device A as shown in and or the passive IoT device B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the buttons A and B the display if a touchscreen etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an aspect that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the aspects described below in more detail.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the IoT server described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access points used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to an IoT device implementation as in .

Further while most of the discussion above relates to IoT embodiments of the invention are also directed to non IoT environments. With this in mind illustrates a user equipment UE in accordance to an embodiment of the invention. The UE illustrated in may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals. The UE in may be implemented as either an IoT device or a non IoT device.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from an access network associated with a given radio access technology e.g. long term evolution LTE EV DO wideband code division multiple access W CDMA etc. may ultimately come from a core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement. Further helps to demonstrate that another potential implementation example of the communication device whereby the communication device is either an IoT device or a non IoT device.

The wireless communication between the UE and a serving access network can be based on different radio access technologies such as LTE CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between UE one or more Node B s and a radio network controller RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing UE access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Conventionally preset media output systems e.g. surround sound TV systems with fixed speakers and display devices or single devices such as cell phones or tablet PCs are used to output media. However to leverage the output capabilities of local media output devices in dynamic settings manual set up is typically required e.g. the user physically connects media output cables to the local media output devices etc. .

Referring to the device controller and or the rendering device dynamically discover a set of media output devices that are proximate to a set of target users . The set of target users can correspond to a single user a group of users at the same approximate location e.g. a media room of a house or to a group of users at different locations of a shared event e.g. at different seats in a stadium in view of a sports game . The dynamic discovery of can occur in response to a request received at the device controller and or the rendering device for outputting a set of media to the set of target users. In an example the request can be received at the device controller directly from one or more of the set of target users if the device controller corresponds to a UE e.g. A of C of or D of the request can be implicit via registration from one or more of the set of target users with the device controller and or the rendering device e.g. A of the request can be received from an operator of the device controller and or the rendering device if the device controller and or the rendering device corresponds to a local or remote server e.g. A of the request can be received at the rendering device from the device controller if the rendering device and device controller are independent entities e.g. A of C of or D of and so on. Alternatively the dynamic discovery procedure can be a background operation that is performed on a periodic basis so that the set of media output devices in proximity to the set of target users is maintained as fresh .

Referring to in conjunction with discovering the set of media output devices at the device controller and or the rendering device also determine the media output capabilities of each of the set media output devices e.g. at A and or A of C and or C of D and or D of A of A of and so on . As will be appreciated there are different ways that the device controller and or the rendering device can determine the media output capabilities for the set of media output devices at . In an example device names associated with one or more of the media output devices in the set can be mapped to specific capabilities e.g. a particular model of laptop is known to be capable of outputting 1080p video at dB of volume from a look up table that is accessible to the device controller and or the rendering device so detection of the model type of the laptop corresponds to detection of its media output capabilities etc. . In another example one or more of the media output devices in the set can advertise their media output capabilities e.g. via a periodic advertisement intercepted by the device controller and or the rendering device in response to a media output polling message from the device controller and or the rendering device etc. . In yet another example the device controller and or the rendering device can send test media for playback by one or more of the media output devices in the set. In a media playback test example a media output device can be asked to play audio and an audio recording device in proximity to the media output device can record the audio and report back to the device controller and or rendering device to indicate whether the audio was played successful and an associated quality level. In another media playback test example a media output device can be asked to play video and a video recording device in proximity to the media output device can record the video and report back to the device controller and or rendering device to indicate whether the video was played successful and an associated quality level. Thus the device controller and or rendering device can ascertain media output capabilities of the set of media output devices in a variety of ways e.g. a name mapping in a media output capability index table advertised capabilities and or measured capabilities . For example at the device controller and or the rendering device may detect that a user A is proximate to media output devices A B and C with media output device A being a speaker that can only output audio at a first quality level e.g. volume etc. from five feet away from user A media output device B being a tablet computer that can output audio at a second quality level from two feet away from user A and can also output video at a first quality level e.g. screen size brightness frame rate resolution etc. and media output device C is a video projector that can output video at a second quality level onto a viewing screen that is 10 12 feet in size at a distance of twenty feet from user A.

Next the device controller and or the rendering device select at least one subset of the set of media output devices to handle the output for at least one media type e.g. as in A of C of D of A of A of and so on . For example when audio media is to be targeted to user A may determine to use media output devices A and B at respective volume levels or may determine to split left and right stereo feeds between media output devices A and B and so on. The selection of can correspond to an input from one or more of the set of target users an operator of the device controller and or the rendering device or an autonomous or automated decision by the device controller and or the rendering device themselves. For example a set of six 6 audio output devices can be designated to provide 5.1 channel surround sound and a set of two 2 video output devices e.g. a projector and a tablet computer can be designated to provide 480p and 1080p video respectively and a text output device can be designated to display textual information e.g. an electronic scoreboard showing a score of a sports game that is being presented by the audio video output devices . Thus different media output devices that belong to the video output subset for example can be configured with different quality targets e.g. 480p vs. 720p split screen video different camera angles for a sports game etc. so that different media output devices within the same subset can output different versions of related content.

Referring to at the device controller and or the rendering device obtains a set of media for presentation to the target set of users whereby the set of media includes at least one type of media for which the at least one subset was selected at e.g. as in A or A of C or C of D or D of A of A of and so on . The device controller and or the rendering device thereby deliver the set of media to the selected subset s of media output devices based on the media type s from the set of media to be presented to the set of target users . Thus if the set of media only includes audio the audio is sent to the subset of the set of media output devices that were selected at for audio output and so on. As part of the delivery at it will be appreciated that the device controller and or the rendering device is configured to synchronize the playback of the media delivered to the set of media devices. The synchronization can include synchronization between media output devices in a particular selected subset so that the audio played by each audio output device in an audio subset is synchronized for instance. The synchronization can further include synchronization between media output devices in different selected subsets so that video frames output by a video output device s are aligned with a corresponding audio track being played by audio output device s . It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art how this type of synchronization can be achieved for any of the media delivery operations described below.

Referring to the rendering device receives the request to present the audio multimedia message and initiates a discovery procedure to identify a current set of media output devices in proximity to UE 2 and also to determine their respective media output capabilities A e.g. as in and of . The rendering device parses the discovered media output devices to identify the available audio output devices and notifies the device controller i.e. UE 2 with respect to the available audio output devices A. UE 2 prompts its user to select a subset of the available audio output devices for playing the audio multimedia message A. UE 2 receives input indicative of the user s selection and notifies the rendering device of the selected subset of the available audio output devices A e.g. as in of . In an embodiment of the invention the user prompt operation of A A can be optional. For example if only a single audio output device is discovered at A the single audio output device can be selected by default because there are no other options for the user to select between. In another example the device controller i.e. UE 2 can track a history of the user s audio output device selections such that if the user has a habit or history of selecting a particular set of audio output devices the device controller can anticipate that selection without prompting the user to make the same selection again as in A A. On the other hand if A and A are performed in the device controller can log the user s selection in the user s corresponding output device selection history. The rendering device establishes a media connection with each audio output device from the selected subset A the rendering device sends the audio multimedia message to the audio output devices from the selected subset over their respective media connections A e.g. as in of and the audio output devices from the selected subset play the audio multimedia message A.

Referring to the rendering device receives the request C to present the video multimedia message and initiates a discovery procedure to identify a current set of media output devices in proximity to UE 2 and also to determine their respective media output capabilities C e.g. as in and of . The rendering device parses the discovered media output devices to identify the available video output devices and notifies the device controller i.e. UE 2 with respect to the available video output devices C. UE 2 prompts its user to select a subset of the available video output devices for playing the video multimedia message C. UE 2 receives input indicative of the user s selection and notifies the rendering device of the selected subset of the available video output devices C e.g. as in of . In an embodiment of the invention the user prompt operation of C C can be optional. For example if only a single video output device is discovered at C the single video output device can be selected by default because there are no other options for the user to select between. In another example the device controller i.e. UE 2 can track a history of the user s video output device selections such that if the user has a habit or history of selecting a particular set of video output devices the device controller can anticipate that selection without prompting the user to make the same selection again as in C C. On the other hand if C and C are performed in the device controller can log the user s selection in the user s corresponding output device selection history. The rendering device establishes a media connection with each video output device from the selected subset C the rendering device sends the video multimedia message to the video output devices from the selected subset over their respective media connections C e.g. as in of and the video output devices from the selected subset play the video multimedia message C.

Referring to the rendering device receives the request to present the audio video multimedia message and initiates a discovery procedure to identify a current set of media output devices in proximity to UE 2 and also to determine their respective media output capabilities D e.g. as in and of . The rendering device parses the discovered media output devices to identify the available video and audio output devices and notifies UE 2 with respect to the available video and audio output devices D. UE 2 prompts its user to select i a first subset of the available video output devices for playing a video portion of the audio video multimedia message and also ii a second subset of the available audio output devices for playing an audio portion of the audio video multimedia message D. UE 2 receives input indicative of the user s selections and notifies the rendering device of the selected first and second subsets D e.g. as in of . In an embodiment of the invention the user prompt operation of D D can be optional. For example if only a single audio or video output device is discovered at D the single audio or video output device can be selected by default because there are no other options for the user to select between. If a single video output device is detected but multiple audio devices are detected the user can be prompted to select between the multiple audio devices without being asked to select between video output devices and vice versa . In another example the device controller i.e. UE 2 can track a history of the user s audio and video output device selections such that if the user has a habit or history of selecting a particular set of audio and or video output devices the device controller can anticipate those selections without prompting the user to make the same selections again as in D D. Alternatively if the user consistently selects the same set of video output devices but is less consistent with his her audio output device selections the video output devices may be selected based on the user s selection history while the user is still prompted for a selection of the audio output devices. If D and D are performed in for either the audio or video output devices the device controller can log the user s selection s in the user s corresponding output device selection history. The rendering device establishes a media connection with each video output device from the selected first subset and also with each audio output device from the selected second subset D. The rendering device sends the video portion of the audio video multimedia message to the video output devices from the selected first subset over their respective media connections D e.g. as in of and the rendering device sends the audio portion of the audio video multimedia message to the audio output devices from the selected second subset over their respective media connections D e.g. as in of . The audio output devices from the selected second subset play the audio portion of the audio video multimedia message D and the video output devices from the selected first subset play the video portion of the audio video multimedia message D.

While relate to example implementations of delivering media to a set of media output devices in proximity to a single user i.e. a user of UE 2 in other embodiments of the invention can be directed to delivery of media to a group of target users. Accordingly is directed to an example implementation of the process of with respect to ad hoc group delivery of media to a set of target spectators of an event e.g. a sports game at a sports stadium .

In the embodiment of the device controller function and the rendering device function are consolidated within a server that is configured to coordinate with a set of registered spectators at an event such as a sports game. Thus in the entity that makes the media output device selections for media delivery i.e. the device controller function is the same entity that ultimately renders the media and delivers the rendered media to the respective media output devices for presentation i.e. the rendering device function . For example as shown in the event is shown as occurring at a sports stadium B surrounding a sports field B. Also shown in are UEs 1 . . . 5 positioned at different seats in the sports stadium B. Below is described with respect to although it will be readily appreciated how could be alternatively implemented in other settings.

Referring to UEs 1 . . . N register with the server as being in attendance at the sports stadium B during an event such as a sports game A. The registration of A can occur in a number of ways. For example the registration of A can occur by users of UEs 1 . . . N scanning their tickets to the event or by the users of UEs 1 . . . N downloading and installing a location aware mobile application controlled by the device controller. The registration of A corresponds collectively to and of in an example. At some point during the event the server obtains audio media and potentially other forms of media for delivery to the registered spectators of the event A e.g. as in of . For example an operator of the server can attempt to deliver a rallying audio note to the registered spectators in the form of a stadium wave e.g. a device driven version of the more typical user driven waves that occur at sports games . At A the server establishes a media connection to each of the registered UEs 1 . . . N A. Alternatively the media connection may be previously established e.g. at the registration of A and simply maintained at A. The media connection of A can be an ad hoc media connection in an example such that the registered UEs 1 . . . N form a P2P ad hoc or IoT group for sharing the audio media to be delivered thereto.

At A the server generates a delivery schedule for the audio media so as to produce upon presentation at the respective registered UEs 1 . . . N a desired sound effect. For example the desired sound effect can correspond to the stadium wave noted above such that the audio media plays section by section in the sports stadium B in a sequential manner so that it appears that the audio media is traveling between the sections in a wave pattern. The delivery schedule can be based on the locations of the registered UEs 1 . . . N e.g. their seat numbers or even their current locations based on location tracking such that UEs located in different sections are allocated different times at which to play the audio media after delivery to approximate the stadium wave effect. Alternatively the delivery schedule can be enforced by the delivery mechanism itself e.g. if UEs 1 . . . N are in a P2P group each UE can play the audio media before passing it on to a next UE so that the audio media will gradually travel around the sports stadium B . After generating the delivery schedule in A the server delivers the audio media to the registered UEs 1 . . . N in accordance with the delivery schedule A e.g. as in of and the registered UEs 1 . . . N play the audio media A.

While illustrate an example whereby the device controller function and the rendering device function are consolidated within a server illustrate an embodiment whereby the device controller function and the rendering device function can be consolidated within a given UE UE 1 in conjunction with set up of a video presentation session. In particular show how a user in control of UE 1 can manipulate how video is streamed to its local video output devices. Below UE 1 is described as both the device controller and the rendering device but it will be readily appreciated how UE 1 could instead be connected to another device that renders the video media to be streamed to the target device s and thereby performs the rendering device function with UE 1 primarily functioning as a remote control device controller . In this alternative scenario UE 1 can be operated by a user as a remote control for interacting with an external rendering device in conjunction with set up of the video presentation session. Accordingly while not shown explicitly in the rendering device function can be performed externally via an independent processing device not shown similar to .

Referring to UE 1 determines to search for local video output devices A. In an example the determination of A can occur in response to a user of UE loading a multimedia application on UE 1 that relates to video output e.g. a YouTube application a TV application etc. . UE 1 thereby initiates a discovery procedure to identify a current set of media output devices in proximity to UE 1 and also to determine their respective media output capabilities A. UE 1 parses the discovered media output devices to identify the available video output devices and then prompts its user to select a subset of the discovered video output devices A. While not shown in it is also possible that UE 1 can select one or more audio output devices to play an audio portion of the video media as well. In an embodiment of the invention the user prompt of A can be optional. For example if only a single video output device is discovered at A the single video output device can be selected by default because there are no other options for which the user can select. In another example UE 1 can track a history of the user s video output device selections such that if the user has a habit or history of selecting a particular set of video output devices UE 1 can anticipate that selection without prompting the user to make the same selection again as in A. On the other hand if A performed in UE 1 can log the user s selection in the user s corresponding output device selection history once a selection is received at A. illustrates an example of the user prompt at A of . In the user of UE 1 is presented with a user prompt screen B that illustrates the available video output devices MyDisplays the streaming options for the video media PlayOnSingleDevice which is shown in more detail in PlayOnMultipleDevices which is shown in more detail in and PlayOnSplitScreen which is shown in more detail in and the available video media for streaming MyPlaylist . The available video output devices are also shown in as mobile device B mobile device B and laptop B.

Referring to UE 1 receives a selection of the subset of video output devices that are to present the video media from the MyDisplays section of the user prompt screen B of A a selection of the video media to be displayed from the MyPlaylist section of the user prompt screen B of A and a selection of the play format by which the selected video media is to be presented e.g. PlayOnSingleDevice PlayOnMultipleDevices or PlayOnSplitScreen from the user prompt screen B of A. UE 1 then establishes a media connection with the selected subset of video output devices A UE 1 sends the selected video media to the selected subset of video output devices over the media connection in accordance with the selected play format A and the selected video output devices play the selected video media A.

Any of the aforementioned embodiments can be implemented within a P2P environment an ad hoc environment and or an IoT environment. Alternatively one or more of the aforementioned embodiments may be directed to an implementation where the device controller is remote from the user for which the media is to be presented. Further while most of the above described embodiments characterize certain target media devices as playing audio data while other target media devices play video data it is also possible that one or more of the target devices would be part of both audio and video playback groups. Using the system of as an example tablet computer B could be asked by the rendering device B to play both a portion of the video media while also outputting a portion of the audio media as well and so on.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

