---

title: System and method of delayed billing for on-demand products
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a binding request for an on-demand identity product from a consumer. The method also includes attempting to provide the on-demand identity product. The method further includes, responsive to the binding request, ascertaining delayed-billing settings that are applicable to the on-demand identity product. In addition, the method includes delaying billing of the on-demand identity product until it can be confirmed that the identity-product provision system has complied with the delayed-billing settings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751388&OS=08751388&RS=08751388
owner: Csidentity Corporation
number: 08751388
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130425
---
This patent application claims priority from and incorporates by reference the entire disclosure of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 786 585.

The present invention relates generally to billing and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods of delayed billing for on demand products.

Numerous computer systems exist that provide on demand products to consumers. For purposes of this patent application an on demand product is a product that is requested by a consumer and is intended by a provider to be delivered in real time or in near real time. On demand products are generally requested electronically over a communications network such as for example public or private intranets a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network the Internet or the like. Examples of on demand products include content such as for example text graphics photos video audio code software applications documents access to cloud applications and the like. On demand products can also include content streaming for example of video audio and the like. By way of further example on demand products may include services such as for example identity monitoring services. In general on demand products are not inter alia physically shipped or delivered. Rather on demand products are typically delivered electronically over a communications network or by initiating a requested service.

Traditionally systems that provide on demand products bill for the on demand product soon after a consumer has made a binding request for the on demand product for example by requesting or enrolling for the on demand product and providing payment information. When various complexities cause the on demand product to not be delivered a consumer is usually still charged for the on demand product. As consumer protection laws and regulations proliferate worldwide such billing practices can carry significant risk.

In one embodiment a method includes on an identity product provision system comprising at least one server computer receiving a binding request for an on demand identity product from a consumer. The method also includes the identity product provision system attempting to provide the on demand identity product. The method further includes the identity product provision system ascertaining delayed billing settings that are applicable to the on demand identity product. In addition the method includes the identity product provision system delaying billing of the on demand identity product until it can be confirmed that the identity product provision system has complied with the delayed billing settings.

In one embodiment an identity product provision system includes at least one server computer. The at least one server computer is operable to perform a method. The method includes receiving a binding request for an on demand identity product from a consumer. The method also includes attempting to provide the on demand identity product. The method further includes ascertaining delayed billing settings that are applicable to the on demand identity product. In addition the method includes delaying billing of the on demand identity product until it can be confirmed that the identity product provision system has complied with the delayed billing settings.

In one embodiment a computer program product includes a computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein. The computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method. The method includes receiving a binding request for an on demand identity product from a consumer. The method also includes attempting to provide the on demand identity product. The method further includes ascertaining delayed billing settings that are applicable to the on demand identity product. In addition the method includes delaying billing of the on demand identity product until it can be confirmed that the identity product provision system has complied with the delayed billing settings.

In various embodiments on demand products can be more efficiently provided and billed for by implementing systems and methods outlined herein. In a typical embodiment a product provision system is operable to configurably delay when consumers are billed for on demand products in accordance with delayed billing settings. As used herein delayed billing settings refer to one or more sets of criteria for determining whether a consumer can be billed for an on demand product at a given point in time. As used herein a consumer is a person or group of persons who are requestors and or users of on demand products.

For purposes of this patent application providing or delivering an on demand product refers to automated actions by a computer system to fulfill a request for the on demand product. For example for various types of on demand products providing or delivering the on demand products can include transmitting streaming or initializing the on demand product. For various types of on demand products providing or delivering the on demand products can also include for example making the on demand products accessible to consumers for transmission or streaming thereto.

For purposes of this patent application billing refers to initiating payment extraction via provided payment information. Billing can include for example charging a credit line e.g. a credit card initiating a bank draft applying a credit debiting an account or the like. Billing can also include for example authorizing a third party to charge a credit line initiate a bank draft apply a credit debit an account or the like.

The product provision system is shown to include the at least one server computer and the one or more databases for illustrative purposes. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that each instance of a computer such as for example the at least one server computer may be representative of any number of physical or virtual server computers. Likewise each instance of a database such as for example the one or more databases may be representative of a plurality of databases. Moreover each instance of a system such as for example the product provision system and the one or more external systems may be representative of any combination of computing equipment including for example any number of physical or virtual server computers and any number and organization of databases. In addition it should be appreciated that in various embodiments the network can be viewed as an abstraction of multiple distinct networks via which the product provision system is operable to communicate. For example the network can include one or multiple communications networks such as for example public or private intranets a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network the Internet or the like.

In a typical embodiment the product provision system is operable to provide the on demand products to consumers and implement delayed billing for the on demand products. The functionality of the product provision system is facilitated by a plurality of software modules resident and executing on the at least one server computer . The plurality of software modules includes a fulfillment module and a delayed billing module .

The fulfillment module logically encapsulates software that is operable to generate acquire and or provide the on demand products to consumers. The on demand products provisioned via the fulfillment module may be selected from a number of categories such as for example text graphics photos video audio code software applications documents access to cloud applications and the like. The on demand products can also include content streaming for example of video audio and the like. By way of further example on demand products may include services such as for example monitoring services. Other examples of on demand products will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the inventive principles contained herein.

The delayed billing module logically encapsulates software that maintains and enforces delayed billing settings. The delayed billing settings may be maintained in the one or more databases . In various embodiments the delayed billing settings may be varied for particular categories of on demand products. For example streaming music may be subject to different settings than a credit monitoring service. In various embodiments the delayed billing settings may be established by consumers administrators a provider or vendor for particular on demand products or the like.

The delayed billing settings can take various forms. For example the delayed billing settings can include consumer authentication criteria. In various embodiments the consumer authentication criteria may require that all or part of a given consumer s personally identifying information PII be verified as correct prior to billing. PIT as used herein refers to information that can be used to uniquely identify contact or locate an individual person or can be used with other sources to uniquely identify contact or locate an individual person. PIT may include but is not limited to social security numbers SSN bank or credit card account numbers passwords birth dates and addresses. Verification of PII can involve for example validating the consumer s PII against other records such as for example a credit file public records and the like. In various embodiments the consumer authentication criteria may further require that the consumer be authenticated as an owner of the PII. Examples of authentication that may be required are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 340 042 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 093 664. U.S. Pat. No. 7 340 042 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 093 664 are hereby incorporated by reference.

By way of further example the delayed billing settings can include delivery verification criteria. The delivery verification criteria typically require that delivery of the on demand products be verified before billing occurs. What constitutes delivery of an on demand product is generally product specific. Therefore in a typical embodiment a product delivery definition is established relative to each category of on demand product for which delivery is deemed different. The product delivery definition may include for example one or more product delivery factors that can be evaluated by the delayed billing module as true or false.

In a typical embodiment the delayed billing module represents a significant departure from how product provision systems traditionally bill consumers for on demand products. Because on demand products are generally intended to be provided immediately it is usually desirable to bill immediately. However in various embodiments technical and practical issues can unpredictably arise that prevent a particular on demand product from being provided to a particular consumer. In a typical embodiment the delayed billing module detects such issues via the delayed billing settings and acts to delay billing until it can be confirmed that the product provision system has complied with the delayed billing settings. An example of a delayed billing process that may be implemented by the delayed billing module will be described with respect to .

Although the fulfillment module and the delayed billing module are depicted as two separate software components in various other embodiments such software components are organized differently. For example the fulfillment module and the delayed billing module could be merged into a single software component each be further divided into other software components or have their collective functionality allocated differently among any number of software components.

The one or more client computing devices are computer systems used by consumers for example to request and or receive the on demand products. The one or more client computing devices can include for example desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers smart phones and the like. The one or more external systems are representative of computer systems from which the product provision system is operable to interact. For example in various embodiments the product provision system may acquire particular on demand products from the one or more external systems or obtain information or data necessary to generate particular on demand products. For example the one or more external systems may provide the information or data via an application programming interface API .

In operation the product provision system interacts with the plurality of client computing devices to receive binding requests for on demand products. A binding request as used herein refers to a request for an on demand product for which a requesting consumer has authorized fulfillment and provided payment information optionally as part of the request . Upon receipt of a binding request for an on demand product the at least one server computer utilizes the fulfillment module to attempt to provide the requested on demand product. Optionally in parallel the at least server computer initiates the delayed billing module so that payment can be extracted in accordance with the delayed billing settings.

As described above with respect to principles described herein can be applied to numerous categories of on demand products. For illustrative purposes examples will now be described with respect to on demand identity products. An on demand identity product as used herein is an on demand product as defined above that may be used to facilitate discovery or prevention of identity theft. Identity theft generally involves a use of PII that is not authorized by an owner of the PII and can include for example an unauthorized change to PII or an unauthorized use of PII to access resources or to obtain credit or other benefits.

Identity products can include for example credit products. For purposes of this patent application a credit product is an on demand identity product as defined above that pertains to receiving acquiring reporting on monitoring or otherwise acting upon information related to consumer credit files. On demand identity products that are not credit products may be referenced herein as non credit products. Non credit products can include monitoring and or reporting services relating for example to exchanges of PII over the Internet aliases associated with social security numbers sex offender registries payday loans changes of address and the like.

In general the identity product provision system the one or more external systems the network the one or more client computing devices the at least one server computer the one or more databases and the plurality of software modules operate as described with respect to the product provision system the one or more external systems the network the one or more client computing devices the at least one server computer the one or more databases and the plurality of software modules respectively of . More specifically however the identity product provision system is operable to provide the on demand identity products to consumers and implement delayed billing for the on demand identity products.

In particular the fulfillment module logically encapsulates software that is operable to generate acquire and or provide the on demand identity products to consumers. The provided on demand identity products can include for example reports and monitoring services. Examples of functionality that the fulfillment module can encapsulate is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 8 359 278 and in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 780 130 13 093 664 and 13 398 471. U.S. Pat. No. 8 359 278 and U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 780 130 and 13 398 471 are hereby incorporated by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 093 664 has already been incorporated by reference above.

The delayed billing module logically encapsulates software that maintains and enforces delayed billing settings. The delayed billing settings may be maintained in the one or more databases . For example the delayed billing settings can include consumer authentication criteria as described with respect to . Because the on demand identity products generally involve PII and are thus sensitive in nature the consumer verification criteria typically takes on particular importance. For example in a typical embodiment identity products cannot be provided when a requesting consumer has not been authenticated. In such cases it is often determined that the requesting consumer should not be billed. Therefore the delayed billing settings can serve as a safeguard to delay billing under such circumstances.

In a typical embodiment the delayed billing settings can also include delivery verification criteria as described with respect to . In a typical embodiment what constitutes delivery of an on demand product may be varied between credit and non credit products. For example for a credit product the delayed billing settings may require as a delivery verification factor that an acknowledgement be received back from one or multiple credit bureaus e.g. Experian TransUnion and Equifax in the U.S. . By way of further example for a non credit product the delayed billing settings may require as a delivery verification factor that the consumer has been successfully added to receive a service such as for example an identity monitoring service coordinated by the fulfillment module . In various embodiments technical issues such as for example incomplete or inaccurate information from the consumer may prevent the consumer from being successfully added to receive a service. In this fashion the delayed billing module can utilize the delayed billing settings to detect the technical issues and delay billing.

In operation the identity product provision system interacts with the plurality of client computing devices to receive binding requests for on demand products. The binding requests can result for example from enrollment as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 093 663 or from registration and or subscription as described with respect to U.S. Pat. No. 8 359 278 each of which is incorporated by reference above . Upon receipt of a binding request for an on demand identity product the at least one server computer utilizes the fulfillment module to provide the requested on demand identity product. Optionally in parallel the at least server computer initiates the delayed billing module so that payment can be extracted in accordance with the delayed billing settings.

At step the delayed billing module receives a request to initiate delayed billing. The request to initiate delayed billing is typically received from the server computer in connection with a binding request for an on demand product from a consumer. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the delayed billing module ascertains delayed billing settings that are applicable to the requested on demand product. The delayed billing settings may be acquired from one or more databases such as for example the one or more databases of or the one or more databases of . From step the process proceeds to step .

At step the delayed billing module determines whether consumer authentication needs to be performed. In various embodiments consumer authentication is a prerequisite to billing for certain types of on demand products and is specified as such in the delayed billing settings. Even if the delayed billing settings specify consumer authentication consumer authentication may not need to be performed because for example consumer authentication has already been performed as part of requesting the requested on demand product. If it is determined that consumer authentication does not need to be performed either because it is not required or because it has already been performed the process proceeds to step . If it is determined at step that consumer authentication is required the process proceeds to step .

At step the delayed billing module performs consumer authentication. Examples of authentication that may occur at step are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 340 042 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 093 664 each of which is incorporated by reference above . From step the process proceeds to step . At step the delayed billing module determines whether the consumer authentication was successful. If it is determined at step that the consumer was not successfully authenticated the process proceeds to step and ends. If it is determined at step that the consumer was successfully authenticated the process proceeds to step .

At step the delayed billing module determines whether the delayed billing settings require delivery verification. If not the process proceeds to step . If it is determined at step that the delayed billing settings require delivery verification the process proceeds to step . At step the delayed billing module performs delivery verification. In a typical embodiment the delivery verification involves evaluating one or more product delivery factors contained within the delayed billing settings. The one or more product delivery factors can include for example whether the consumer has been successfully added to internal systems that provide for example a monitoring service whether the on demand product has been transmitted in its entirety to the consumer whether the on demand product is accessible to the consumer and the like. From step the process proceeds to step .

At step the delayed billing module determines whether the delivery verification was successful. In a typical embodiment the delivery verification is deemed successful if each of the one or more product delivery factors evaluate to an expected value of true or false as applicable. If the delivery verification was not successful the process proceeds to step . At step the delayed billing module delays billing the consumer for the requested on demand product. In various embodiments the delayed billing process is re run later for example as a batch billing process for all unbilled consumers. From step the process proceeds to step and ends.

If it is determined at step that the delivery verification was successful the process proceeds to step . At step the consumer is billed for the requested on demand product. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the process ends.

Although various embodiments of the method and apparatus of the present invention have been illustrated in the accompanying Drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit of the invention as set forth herein.

