---

title: Social queue
abstract: Exemplary methods, apparatuses, and systems receive a request from a user device to add a user identifier to a queue and, in response, transmit a current position for the user identifier in the queue. The first user identifier is promoted to an improved position in the queue in response to receiving an indication of performance of an action associated with the first user identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396503&OS=09396503&RS=09396503
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09396503
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130731
---
The various embodiments described herein relate to creating and maintain a digital queue of users of a social network. In particular the embodiments relate to a social queue in which users can improve their position in the queue by performing actions within or otherwise related to the social network.

Exclusive events such as events with limited tickets contests and product releases generate large physical lines of people. Waiting in line may be unpleasant but people are willing to do so for an opportunity to obtain the corresponding exclusive item e.g. tickets a prize a product with a limited supply etc. These large lines draw attention to and generate excitement around the exclusive event.

Exemplary methods apparatuses and systems receive a request from a first user device to add a first user identifier to a queue and in response transmit a current position for the first user identifier in the queue. The first user identifier is promoted to an improved position in the queue in response to receiving an indication of performance of an action associated with the first user identifier. For example the action may be performed within a social network.

In one embodiment exemplary methods apparatuses and systems also transmit a recommended action to be performed and a number of positions in line the user will advance in response to performance of the recommended action. For example the recommended action may be based upon a geographic location associated with the user or information associated with the first user identifier within the social network.

Other features and advantages will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description.

Embodiments described herein generate and maintain a social queue for an exclusive event or promotion. A social queue server presents each participating user with a current position in line. Users in the queue perform one or more actions associated with a social network to improve their position within the queue. The social queue server publishes to the social network narratives in response to the actions to draw attention to and generate excitement around the exclusive event promotion. Additionally the actions increase the engagement of the participating users with a product brand performer promoter or entity that initiated the social queue.

At block the computer receives a request to add a first user identifier ID to the social queue. The computer adds the first user ID to the end of the queue. As used herein a user ID refers to a representation of a user within a social network and a social queue. Additionally queue and line are used interchangeably and both represent a data structure created and maintained to organize an ordered list of user ID s and corresponding position numbers.

For example a first user downloads a social queue application or utilizes a browser based social queue application e.g. via a website or within another application. In one embodiment the social queue is implemented by an external application that operates in a cooperative manner with the social networking system. In an alternative embodiment the social queue is an internal application that operates within or as a part of the social networking system.

The first user authenticates an association between the social queue and the first user s social networking account. For example the user may provide a social queue server the first user ID and corresponding password used with the social network. In one embodiment a landing or welcome page for a social queue application or a website that implements the social queue includes log in functionality. Additionally the user may establish privacy access permissions to enable the social queue to access social networking data associated with the first user ID or publish narratives to the social network on behalf of or in association with the first user. While block is described with reference to a single user multiple users join the social queue in a similar manner.

At block the computer transmits for display on a user device a current position of the first user ID within the queue. For example the current position is included within a graphical user interface and indicates the position of the first user ID relative to other user ID s.

In one embodiment the computer optionally transmits one or more user ID s connected to the user in the social network that are also in the social queue. For example the computer cross references or otherwise searches social network data including connections associated with the user ID in the social network described with reference to and user ID s in the social queue. GUI displays connected user ID s as images representing the corresponding users. In an alternate embodiment user ID s or corresponding names are displayed. Again while block is described with reference to a single user queue position information is transmitted to multiple users in a similar manner.

Returning to at block the computer optionally determines one or more recommended actions for users to perform to be promoted within the social queue. For example the computer searches social network data associated with the user ID to determine demographic information about the user demographic information about the user s connections the user s interests the user s activities etc. The computer determines one or more recommended actions tailored to each user based upon the obtained social network data. For example if the entity that initiated the queue sells multiple products aimed at different demographic groups the computer selects a product that corresponds to the user s demographic and recommends that the user view a demonstration of or advertisement for that product in order to advance a number of positions in the queue.

In another embodiment the computer obtains geographic data associated with the user. Geographic data may be obtained from a user device e.g. a mobile device capable of providing positioning data or from the social network data e.g. a location of the user s hometown workplace check in data etc. . For example the computer selects a store or event near the geographic location associated with the user and recommends that the user use the social network to check in at the store or attend the event and publish attendance of the event to the social network.

Alternatively the computer utilizes default recommended actions that are independent of social network data for an individual user.

At block the computer transmits a set of one or more determined or default recommended actions to each user. For example a user may perform one or more of the following actions within the social network liking a page for an entity product following an entity page for a entity product submitting an RSVP for an event purchasing a product taking a quiz playing a game listening to media e.g. a song or advertisement watching a video trying a demo of a product creating content e.g. a narrative and or picture related to an entity inviting a friend to join the social queue or to perform another action etc. Additionally the user may perform an action outside of the social network. For example a recommended action may include the user visiting an external website and or submitting a review of a product. In one embodiment the computer further transmits a number of positions in the queue that a user ID will be promoted in response to a user performing the action.

In GUI includes exemplary recommended actions . Each recommended action provides a short description of the action and a number of positions in the queue a user ID will be promoted in response to a user performing the action. In one embodiment in response to selection of recommended actions within GUI the computer facilitates the completion of the corresponding action. For example in response to selection of recommended action the computer accesses the user s list of connections friends within the social network and enables the user to select one or more of them to receive an invite. The computer transmits the invitation s through the social network. If the action were liking an entity selection of a corresponding GUI element would result in the computer transmitting the action to the social network.

In an embodiment in which the computer determines recommended actions based upon social network data associated with a user ID one or more of recommended actions are tailored to the user. For example recommended actions and may be further refined with user data. Recommended action may include a specific product targeted at the user s demographic or include a store location based upon the user s location data. Similarly recommended action may select an event targeted at the user s interests as determined from social networking data and or located near the user as determined from the user s location data.

In one embodiment users are able to add demographic information to user profiles A C. In one embodiment for demographic information that has not been entered by a user a social network application generates an estimate based upon the user s actions connections and or actions of connections. For example User B has not entered an alma mater into user profile B. A social network application may determine from User B s contacts activities cities of residence etc. that User B s likely alma mater is one or both of Brigham Young University and Harvard University.

In one embodiment demographic data further includes a weight or score indicating an affinity between a user and an object. For example repeated user action with one object may indicate a stronger affinity for said object than another object with which the user has limited interaction. First degree connections e.g. the friendship between User A and User B may indicate a stronger affinity than second degree connections e.g. User A is friends with User B who is friends with User C creating a second degree connection between User A and User C. An indication that two users are married may indicate a stronger affinity than if two users are friends. Additionally temporal and geographic proximity of actions users are other exemplary indicators of affinity.

The illustrated objects connections profiles and affinity values are exemplary social network data used for determining recommended actions. In one embodiment users may select privacy settings to control what social network data is shared with whom the data is shared and or what data used for determining recommended actions.

Returning to at block the computer receives an indication of the performance of an action associated with a user ID. For example a user logged in with the social queue application and or social network performs a recommended action. The social network transmits or the social queue server otherwise reads determines that the action has been performed. In an embodiment in which the social queue facilitates the completion of the corresponding action the computer transmits a command to the social network on behalf of the user to perform an action e.g. liking an entity and receives a confirmation of the command as an indication of the performance of the action. Alternatively input received from a user device to perform an action e.g. initiated via GUI is the indication of the performance of the action.

At block the computer promotes the first user ID to an improved position within the social queue in response to the indication of the performance of the action. For each action performed the computer moves the corresponding user ID to the improved position within the social queue data structure. In one embodiment the promotion includes transmitting an updated position to a user device e.g. in a manner similar to block . For example referring to if a user were to complete recommended action the computer would promote the first user ID positions within the queue. The promotion of position in the queue is performed relative to other user ID s that may or may not also be performing corresponding actions to improve their own positions within the queue.

At block the computer publishes a narrative to the social network. Given that some recommended actions may in and of themselves involve publishing a narrative to the social network that the social queue may not publish all actions e.g. to avoid over publishing to the social network or that a user privacy setting prevents social queue publications performance of the publication at block is optional. In one embodiment publications to the social network include one or more of a narrative of the action a number of positions a user was promoted for performing an action a number of positions a user is away from the head of the queue or winning a prize a link to enable users viewing the publication to join the queue an image etc.

Social networking system includes platform storage one or more platform applications one or more application programming interfaces API s social graph e.g. as described with reference to and internal social queue application . Platform storage stores user preferences settings profile data etc. Exemplary platform applications include the platform for social interactions e.g. publishing posts pictures etc. as well as social games messaging services playing music and any other application that uses the social platform provided by social networking system .

In one embodiment social networking system acts as a social queue server and method is performed in whole or part by internal social queue application . Social network data e.g. described with reference to is maintained within and received from platform storage and or social graph . In one embodiment external server acts as a social queue server and method is performed in whole or part by external social queue application . Social queue data is received from and or stored in one or more of the external storage platform storage and social graph . One or more API s enable external applications to work with social networking system . For example external social queue application utilizes an API to authenticate a user based upon the user s social networking log in username and password. Additionally external application utilizes one or more API s to run the application within platform application to publish a post to platform application to access the user s social network connections in social graph etc.

The data processing system includes an audio input output subsystem which has at least one microphone to audio input from a user such as voice instructions. The audio input output subsystem optionally includes one or more a speakers to play music or some other audio or to play audio notifications.

Display controller and attached display device provide a graphical user interface for the user to interact with data processing system . For example the graphical user interface provides access to social networking system via a web browser or via an interface provided by an application executing on data processing system . In one embodiment display controller and attached display device present GUI s and to a user.

Data processing system also includes one or more input or output I O devices and interfaces which are provided to allow a user to transfer data to and from system including input commands. Attached I O devices include one or more input devices such as a mouse keypad or a keyboard touch or multi touch input panel camera or an optical scanner. Attached I O devices can also feature one or more bi directional input output devices such as a network interface modem other known I O devices or a combination of such I O devices.

I O devices and interfaces may also include a connector for a dock or a connector for a USB interface Ethernet FireWire Thunderbolt Lightning etc. to connect system with another device external component or a network. Exemplary I O devices and interfaces also include wireless transceivers such as an IEEE 802.11 transceiver an infrared transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver a wireless cellular telephony and data transceiver e.g. GSM CDMA WiMAX LTE LTE Advanced or some other wireless protocol to connect data processing system with another device external component or a network. In one embodiment I O devices and interfaces further include positioning receiver to receive a location signal e.g. a global positioning system GPS signal.

One or more system buses or internal SOC buses may be used to interconnect the various components of data processing system .

Data processing system is an exemplary representation of one or more of the user s device at least a portion of the social networking system or the external server . For example data processing system may be a personal computer a tablet computer a smartphone a network enabled media player an entertainment system a personal data assistance PDA or devices which combine aspects or functions of these devices such as a media player combined with a PDA and a cellular telephone. Additionally implementations of data processing system can function as a network computer a data server or an embedded processing device within another device or consumer electronic product. As used herein the terms computer system device processing device server and apparatus comprising a processing device may be used interchangeably with data processing system and include the above listed exemplary embodiments. It will be appreciated that additional components not shown may also be part of system and in certain embodiments fewer components than that shown in may also be used in data processing system .

Aspects of the various embodiments described may be embodied at least partially in software. That is the computer implemented methods may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor or processing system executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as memory or other non transitory machine readable storage medium. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network not shown via network interface device . In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with the software instructions to implement the present embodiments. Thus the techniques are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software or to any particular source for the instructions executed by data processing system .

An article of manufacture may be used to store program code providing at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. Additionally an article of manufacture may be used to store program code created using at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. An article of manufacture that stores program code may be embodied as but is not limited to one or more memories e.g. one or more flash memories random access memories static dynamic or other optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or other type of non transitory machine readable media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Additionally embodiments of the invention may be implemented in but not limited to hardware or firmware utilizing a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a processor a computer or a computer system including a networked computer system. Modules and components of hardware or software implementations can be divided or combined without significantly altering embodiments of the invention.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. Various embodiments and aspects of the invention s are described with reference to details discussed herein and the accompanying drawings illustrate the various embodiments. The description above and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an exemplary embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but not every embodiment may necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment such feature structure or characteristic may be implemented in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described. Blocks with dashed borders e.g. large dashes small dashes dot dash dots are used herein to illustrate optional operations that add additional features to embodiments of the invention. However such notation should not be taken to mean that these are the only options or optional operations and or that blocks with solid borders are not optional in certain embodiments of the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. For example the methods described herein may be performed with fewer or more features blocks or the features blocks may be performed in differing orders. Additionally the methods described herein may be repeated or performed in parallel with one another or in parallel with different instances of the same or similar methods.

