---

title: SMS communication during emergencies
abstract: Systems and methods provide, to emergency operators at an emergency call center, the ability to communicate through textual messages with wireless mobile devices from which emergency voice calls have been placed. By virtue of such textual communication, callers using wireless mobile devices can receive emergency instructions and/or provide information about their current location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09301117&OS=09301117&RS=09301117
owner: TRITECH SOFTWARE SYSTEMS
number: 09301117
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130821
---
This disclosure relates to providing to emergency operators communication through textual messages with callers using wireless mobile devices.

Conventionally emergency phone calls are answered by an emergency call center such as e.g. a public safety answering point PSAP . Operators at emergency call centers also referred to as dispatchers or emergency dispatchers may gather and or attempt to gather information during emergency calls including but not limited to the name of the caller the nature of the emergency the location of the emergency and or the caller and or other emergency information. Operators may determine the appropriate type of first response including but not limited to police fire medical and or other types of first response. Operators may contact a dispatcher for the determined type e.g. a police dispatcher fire dispatcher medical dispatcher and or other type of dispatcher. In turn the police dispatcher may contact appropriate emergency responders such as one or more police officers that are on duty and e.g. near the location of the emergency.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to a system configured to provide to emergency operators communication through textual messages. The system may be controlled and or guided programmatically by the functionality of its components as described herein. The system may be configured to respond to incoming emergency voice calls being placed to an emergency call center.

The system may be hosted by and or implemented on a server. Callers operators dispatchers and or emergency responders may interact and or communicate with and or through the system. Interaction and or communication may be implemented by telephones mobile devices wireless devices electronic devices communication devices client computing platforms servers and or devices or systems that are combinations thereof. Interaction and or communication with the system may be implemented over one or more networks including but not limited to emergency communications networks wired telephone networks wireless telephone networks cellular networks the internet and or one or more other communications networks.

The system may include one or more of one or more servers one or more emergency call centers and or other components. The server s may be configured to communicate according to a client server architecture a peer to peer architecture a distributed architecture and or another suitable architecture or combination or architectures.

Callers operators dispatchers and emergency responders may be referred to as users of the system. Users may access the system via landlines wired telephones wireless telephones smartphones mobile devices wireless devices electronic devices communication devices client computing platform s and or other devices or combinations thereof jointly referred to herein as client devices. Callers may generate emergency calls via emergency calling devices including but not limited to any of the types of devices and or systems included in this disclosure. In some implementations emergency calling devices may include devices capable of one or more of placing voice calls receiving textual messages sending textual messages accessing Internet addresses e.g. uniform resource locator addresses or URL addresses obtaining geolocation information and or other functionality as described in this disclosure.

As used herein the term textual message and derivatives thereof may refer to one or both of a short message service SMS message and or a multimedia messaging service MMS message. As used herein the term wireless mobile device and derivatives may refer to devices capable of communication using a cellular network and or wireless telephone network. Alternatively and or simultaneously in some implementations the term wireless mobile device and derivatives may refer to devices capable of being capable of communication in multiple different locations away and apart from a single residence or a single stationary location. Examples of wireless mobiles devices include but are not limited to cellphones smartphones portable and or handheld computing and or communication devices and or other devices.

The server s may include electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. The server s may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a call reception module an outgoing message module a transmission module a presentation module a web hosting module and or other modules.

The call reception module may be configured to receive and or monitor incoming emergency calls being placed to an emergency call center. Incoming emergency calls may include incoming emergency voice calls and or other incoming emergency calls. Incoming emergency calls may be placed to an emergency call center through one or more emergency communication networks and or other networks. Emergency calls may be produced generated and or originated by from and or through callers using emergency calling devices. The call reception module may be implemented embedded combined and or integrated with one or more emergency call centers to accomplish the functions attributed in this disclosure to the call reception module. The incoming emergency calls may include a first call a second call a third call and so forth. In some implementations the call reception module may be configured to determine that an emergency call has been terminated prematurely abruptly before having been answered or before an emergency operator has had adequate time to handle the emergency call. Any of these emergency calls may be referred to as an abandoned emergency call.

Emergency calls may be associated with different types of emergency information including but not limited to caller information subscriber information household information location information one or more types of emergency historical emergency information and or other information. Such information may have been gathered determined and or processed in advance of an emergency call for example through one or more databases that link telephone numbers to residence addresses. In some implementations such information may be gathered determined and or processed after an emergency call has been placed to an emergency call center. Subscriber information may include identification of the caller such as by way of non limiting example a telephone number an IP address information from one or more radio towers used in establishing the call a billing address a residence address and or other information.

Location information may include or be based on by way of non limiting example geolocation information current or last known geographical locations current of last known physical addresses one or more city blocks a particular area of a city town county and or other geographical or governmental entity global positioning system GPS information Wi Fi location information available wifi networks position systems based on wireless local area network WLAN technology indoor positioning information cell tower triangulation information pseudo location information pseudo GPS information location within a building store campus mall and or enclosed area information from real time location systems position systems based on radio frequency identification RFID technology position systems based on ultra wide band UWB technology position systems based on angle of arrival AoA and or time delay of arrival TDoA three dimensional location information position systems based on received signal strength indication RSSI and or other location information or position systems as well as combinations thereof. As used herein the term location information may be used interchangeably with the term geolocation information and may refer to indoor locations and or outdoor locations. In some implementations geolocation information may be based on phase 1 type cellular information phase 2 type cellular information and or other cellular information. Historical emergency information may include one or more of previous emergency calls from the same emergency calling device the same caller the same or similar location or geolocation related emergency calling devices and or client devices related callers and or other information. For example a single caller may have multiple telephones with different phone numbers. For example a group of callers may live at the same address. These examples are not intended to be limiting in any way. Other types of relations between emergency calling devices callers locations etc. are contemplated within the scope of this disclosure.

The outgoing message module may be configured to generate outgoing messages for transmission to telephones and or other devices. The outgoing messages may include outgoing textual messages. In some implementations outgoing messages may be generated for transmission to emergency calling devices including but not limited to emergency calling devices from which an incoming emergency call has been received.

The transmission module may be configured to transmit and or receive messages including but not limited to textual messages incoming messages outgoing messages and or combinations thereof. In some implementations the transmission module may be configured to transmit outgoing textual messages through one or more communications networks and or other networks. In some implementations the communications network used for transmission may be a different network than the communications network used by the call reception module to receive incoming emergency calls.

The presentation module may be configured to present incoming emergency voices calls to emergency operators through one or more user interfaces. The presentation module may be configured to present display render generate and or implement hereinafter referred to as present a presentation of and or derivatives thereof user interfaces for users to interact with the system. The user interfaces may include a set of user selectable options. User selectable options included in a user interface may correspond to different types of emergency different types of information requested by an emergency operator different types of information requested by a caller and or other user or expected to be helpful to the caller or other user and or other characteristics that are specific to an emergency call or caller. As used herein the term informational request may be used to refer to different types of information requested by an emergency operator and or different types of information requested from a caller and or other user. One or more informational requests may be associated with an incoming emergency call. The presentation module may be configured to receive user input from emergency operators for example to select one or more user selectable options included in a user interface.

The web hosting module may be configured to host a web site web page web application mobile application and or other software application jointly referred to as web resources that is accessible through the Internet. The web resources may be configured to query devices including but not limited to wireless mobile devices for geolocation information. For example a particular wireless mobile device may receive from the transmission module a textual message that includes a uniform resource locator URL link to the web resources. The particular wireless mobile device may access engage interact with and or activate the link e.g. through execution of a browser software application on the particular wireless mobile device. Geolocation information may be transferred from the particular wireless mobile device to the web resources implicitly and or explicitly. The web resources may be configured to transmit and or share received geolocation information with other constituent components of the system e.g. in a manner such that the received geolocation information is available and or accessible to emergency operators.

These and other features and characteristics of the present technology as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Server s may be configured to communicate with one or more client devices and or one or more emergency calling devices according to e.g. a client server architecture. Components of system may communicate over one or more networks . Communication may use techniques including but not limited to wired wireless and or combinations thereof. In some implementations system may include communication using a peer to peer architecture. Users may access system via client device s emergency calling device s and or other devices.

Server s may include electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. Server s may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with one or more networks and or other computing platforms. Illustration of server s in is not intended to be limiting. Server s may include a plurality of hardware software and or firmware components operating together to provide the functionality attributed herein to server s . For example server s may at least in part be implemented by a cloud of computing platforms operating together as server s .

In some implementations server s client device s emergency calling device s and or external resources may be operatively linked via one or more electronic communication links. For example such electronic communication links may be established at least in part via one or more networks including e.g. the Internet and or other networks. It will be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting and that the scope of this disclosure includes implementations in which server s client device s emergency calling device s and or external resources may be operatively linked via some other communication media.

External resources may include sources of information hosts and or providers of communication systems outside of system external entities participating with system and or other resources. In some implementations some or all of the functionality attributed herein to external resources may be provided by resources included in system .

Server s may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a call reception module an outgoing message module a transmission module a presentation module a web hosting module and or other modules.

Call reception module may be configured to receive and or monitor incoming emergency calls being placed to an emergency call center . Incoming emergency calls may include incoming emergency voice calls and or other incoming emergency calls. Incoming emergency calls may be placed to emergency call center through one or more emergency communication networks and or other networks collectively referred to as network . Emergency calls may be produced generated and or originated by from and or through callers using emergency calling devices . The call reception module may be implemented embedded combined and or integrated with one or more emergency call centers to accomplish the functions attributed in this disclosure to call reception module . The incoming emergency calls may include a first call a second call a third call and so forth. In some implementations call reception module may be configured to determine that an emergency call has been terminated prematurely abruptly before having been answered or before an emergency operator has had adequate time to handle the emergency call. Any of these emergency calls may be referred to as an abandoned emergency call.

Outgoing message module may be configured to generate outgoing messages for transmission to telephones and or other devices. The outgoing messages may include outgoing textual messages. In some implementations outgoing messages may be generated for transmission to emergency calling devices including but not limited to emergency calling devices from which an incoming emergency call has been received. In some implementations outgoing textual messages may include helpful information for the caller including but not limited to emergency instructions that are specific to the caller s emergency. In some implementations outgoing textual messages may include a link to helpful information including but not limited to a uniform resource locator URL link. In some implementations outgoing textual messages may include a request to the caller to provide information e.g. information that the emergency operator expects to be helpful in the instant emergency. For example helpful information may include by way of non limiting example the current geolocation of the caller and or the emergency.

In some implementations a caller may provide requested information by replying to the outgoing textual message transmitted by system . Other ways to provide requested information are described in this disclosure. In some implementations outgoing message module may be configured to generate outgoing messages for transmission in response to an abandoned emergency call. In some implementations outgoing messages for all or some types of abandoned emergency messages may be generated and or transmitted automatically autonomously and or otherwise without manual and or human interaction. In some implementations outgoing messages for all or some types of abandoned emergency messages may be generated and or transmitted as instructed by an emergency operator. An outgoing message in response to an abandoned emergency call may include by way of non limiting example a link button and or otherwise selectable option to re establish communication with an emergency call center . For example communication with an emergency call center may be established by dialing or re dialing an appropriate emergency telephone number. Alternatively and or simultaneously an outgoing message in response to an abandoned emergency call may include by way of non limiting example a link button and or otherwise selectable option to confirm that the abandoned emergency call may be ignored. For example an abandoned emergency call may be ignored if the call was inadvertent and or unintentionally placed.

Transmission module may be configured to transmit and or receive messages including but not limited to textual messages incoming messages outgoing messages and or combinations thereof. In some implementations transmission module may be configured to transmit outgoing textual messages through one or more networks . In some implementations the communications network used for transmission may be a different network than the communications network used by call reception module to receive incoming emergency calls.

Presentation module may be configured to present incoming emergency voices calls to emergency operators through one or more user interfaces. Presentation module may be configured to present display render generate and or implement hereinafter referred to as present a presentation of and or derivatives thereof user interfaces for users to interact with system . For example user interfaces may be provided to users via client devices . The user interfaces may include a set of user selectable options. User selectable options included in a user interface may correspond to different types of emergency different types of information requested by an emergency operator different types of information requested by a caller and or other user or expected to be helpful to the caller or other user and or other characteristics that are specific to an emergency call or caller. One or more informational requests may be associated with an incoming emergency call. One or more informational requests may be associated with an abandoned emergency call. One or more informational requests may be included in an outgoing textual message e.g. to provide information to a caller and or to request a caller to provide information.

Presentation module may be configured to receive user input from emergency operators for example to select one or more user selectable options included in a user interface. Presentation module may be configured to receive one or more inputs e.g. control inputs and or command inputs from an individual user that affect presentation of an individual user interface. The received inputs may include one or more selections from the offered set of user selectable options. Alternatively and or simultaneously a user interface may provide other ways for users to affect the presentation including but not limited to textual input touch screen gestures pointer device input and or other ways for users to interact with a user interface.

In some implementations an informational request may include information requested by a caller. For example a caller may ask for step by step instructions on how to perform a Heimlich maneuver. In some implementations an informational request may include information expected e.g. by an emergency operator to be helpful to a caller e.g. in light of a specific emergency. For example an information request may include instructions on how to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation CPR . In some implementations an information request may include a link to information and or instructions requested by and or expected to be helpful to the caller. For example CPR instructions may be included in a video link such as a URL to an instruction video.

In some implementations presentation module may be configured to determine obtain and or present personal information associated with an emergency call. Personal information may include one or more names ages gender and or other personal information associated with a caller a registered user for a particular telephone number a registered resident at a particular billing address and or other people. In some implementations personal information may include historical emergency information such as the names of one or more people that were in some way associated with a previous emergency call which in turn is in some way related to a current emergency call. For example if a particular caller has called on one or more previous occasions regarding a particular disturbance by way of non limiting example a previous occasion may be related to domestic abuse that involved one or more particular people information to that effect may be relevant to emergency responders.

By way of illustration illustrates a view of a user interface as presented to a particular user e.g. an emergency operator. User interface may be presented through a client device. User interface may be presented in response to an emergency call being placed to and or being handled by an emergency call center. In some implementations a user interface similar to or the same as user interface may be presented in response to abandonment of an emergency call and or an abandoned emergency call . This emergency call may be referred to as the current emergency call placed by the current caller using the current wireless mobile device in reference to . Elements of user interface may be implemented as fields configured to receive entry selection and or confirmation from a user. The fields may include one or more of a text entry field a set of selectable menu items a selectable field and or other fields configured to receive entry selection and or confirmation from a user. The number of elements components and or user selectable fields depicted in is meant to be exemplary and not limiting in any way. User interface may be configured to present information to and or enable interaction with the user viewing view .

User interface of may include interface elements and informational element action button an icon secondary information element and or other components or features. Interface elements and may e.g. be an object interface and or other items that a user may interact with such as a menu of user selectable options and or actions for engaging the system. For example interface element may display a set of different types of emergency that are available for selection by the emergency operator. For example interface element may display a set of informational requests that are available for selection by the emergency operator. In some implementations the specific set of informational requests may depend at least in part on the selection made for interface element . For example a user selectable option for interface element may include a car accident. A related user selectable option for interface element may indicate whether any passengers appear to be stuck or hurt instructions for providing first aid to a passenger thrown clear from a car a request for the current caller to provide geolocation information etc. Certain combinations of selections for interface elements and may cause the system to generate an outgoing textual message for transmission to the current caller and or the current wireless mobile device. The generated outgoing textual message may include the specific informational request selected through interface element . Action button upon activation by the emergency operator may effect transmission of the generated outgoing textual message e.g. as described elsewhere in this disclosure.

Secondary information element may display information from one or more external sources including but not limited to historical emergency information e.g. as described elsewhere in this disclosure personal information e.g. as described elsewhere in this disclosure in relation to a presentation module information from one or more emergency responders to the current emergency and or related emergencies information provided by the current caller through textual message and or through web resources hosted by a web hosting module e.g. as described elsewhere in this disclosure and or other pertinent information.

An area of user interface e.g. the center as indicated by informational element in may present information about the current emergency call if and when it is available and or known to the emergency operator. Informational element may include status information and or a map of a particular geographical area in particular an area relevant to the current emergency call. For example the map may include streets and geolocation information. Icon may indicate and or represent a geolocation of the current emergency call and or the current caller who generated the current emergency call. Icon may have a particular color shape and or graphically distinguishable characteristic such that a user may rapidly obtain relevant information about the current emergency call. In case of a transmitted outgoing textual message that includes a request from the emergency operator to the current caller to provide geolocation information a reply confirmation and or otherwise provided information originating from the current caller and or the current wireless mobile device may cause one or more changes in view . For example the map within informational element may be updated to reflect the provided geolocation information icon may be relocated as appropriate the information displayed in secondary information element may be updated and or other changes as appropriate may be apparent to the emergency operator.

A perimeter may indicate the geographical area within a predetermined distance in estimated time to reach the current emergency or space of the geolocation indicated by icon .

Referring to web hosting module may be configured to host a web site web page web application mobile application and or other resources jointly referred to as web resources that is accessible through the Internet and or network . For example the web resources may be accessible through a URL address. The web resources may be configured to query devices including but not limited to wireless mobile devices and or emergency calling devices for geolocation information. For example a particular wireless mobile device may receive from transmission module a textual message that includes a uniform resource locator URL link to the web resources. The particular wireless mobile device may access engage interact with and or activate the link e.g. through execution of a browser software application on the particular wireless mobile device. Geolocation information may be transferred from the particular wireless mobile device to the web resources implicitly and or explicitly.

In some implementations the web resources may be configured to query wireless mobile devices for geolocation information through an application programming interface API function that accesses geolocation information e.g. global positioning system GPS information available wifi networks radio tower triangulation information and or other location information e.g. as described elsewhere in this disclosure . In some implementations such functions may be natively supported within the wireless mobile device. For example the web resources may prompt a user to press a button or other interface element to confirm and or update the user s current geolocation. In some implementations the web resources may have access to geolocation information without the need or requirement to prompt the user. The web resources may be configured to transmit and or share received geolocation information with other constituent components of system e.g. in a manner such that the received geolocation information is available and or accessible to emergency operators and or other users.

In some implementations web hosting module may be implemented by an external server for example a third party web server. Web hosting module may interact with other components of system through network in particular the Internet.

In some implementations web hosting module and or the web resources may be configured to interact with emergency calling devices e.g. wireless mobile devices through one or more of the following steps. Web hosting and or the web resources may receive a request e.g. a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request from a particular wireless mobile device operated by a particular caller . Associated with the request and or the particular wireless mobile device web hosting module and or the web resources may receive an identifier. The identifier may identify the request the particular caller and or the particular wireless mobile device. In some implementations the identifier includes one or more of a cookie a user identification e.g. userid UDID and or other identifier of the user device and or software and or hardware configuration of the particular wireless mobile device a media access control MAC address a telephone number and or another identifier. Web hosting and or the web resources may transmit a response to the particular wireless mobile device that includes a query for geolocation information. The query may be performed through an application programming interface API function that accesses geolocation information e.g. as described elsewhere in this disclosure . Responsive to such a query web hosting module and or the web resources may receive from the particular wireless mobile device the queried geolocation information. Web hosting module and or the web resources may provide one or both of the received geolocation information and or the received identifier associated with the request described in this paragraph to system its constituent components and or one or more emergency operators. For example the received geolocation information may be provided to presentation module for presentation to an emergency operator through a user interface.

By way of illustration illustrates a view of a user interface as presented to a particular caller by a web hosting module and or a web resources. The particular caller may access engage interact with and or activate a link to the web resources e.g. through execution of a browser software application on the particular wireless mobile device. The link may have been included in a textual message transmitted on behalf of an emergency operator in particular during and or in response to an emergency call being placed to and or being handled by the emergency operator at an emergency call center. User interface may be presented through a browser software application on a client device in particular an emergency calling device e.g. a smartphone.

Elements of user interface may be implemented as fields configured to receive entry selection and or confirmation from a user. The fields may include one or more of a text entry field a set of selectable menu items a selectable field and or other fields configured to receive entry selection and or confirmation from a user. The number of elements components and or user selectable fields depicted in is meant to be exemplary and not limiting in any way. User interface may be configured to present information to and or enable interaction with the user viewing view . User interface of may include interface elements and and or other components or features. Element may display information including but not limited to instructions related to the use of the web resources. Element may e.g. be an object interface and or other item that a user may interact with such as a menu of user selectable options and or actions for engaging the system. Information displayed in user interface may prompt and or request the user to engage and or activate element e.g. depicted as a button labeled Ok to provide current geolocation information from the user s wireless mobile device to the web resources and or to a constituent component of the system such as a presentation module. Element upon activation by the user may effect sharing and or transmission of the geolocation information e.g. as described elsewhere in this disclosure.

Referring to users may participate in system through client devices emergency calling devices and or other devices. For example interaction may be controlled through control inputs and or commands input by the users through client devices and or emergency calling device s . By way of non limiting example input from users may be entered using interface devices including but not limited to a telephone a keypad buttons switches a keyboard knobs levers a display screen a touch screen speakers a microphone an indicator light an audible alarm a printer and or any combinations thereof. By way of non limiting example client devices and or emergency calling devices may include one or more of a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a NetBook a tablet a smartphone a gaming console and or other computing platforms. Note that the depictions of devices and or icons used in are not intended to be limiting in any way.

Referring to server s client device s and or emergency calling devices may include electronic storage . Electronic storage may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The functionality of electronic storage may be similar between different instantiations even if the stored information may be different. The electronic storage media of electronic storage may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable and or removable storage that is removably connectable to server s and or client device s via for example a port e.g. a USB port a firewire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage may include one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EEPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. and or other electronically readable storage media. Electronic storage may include one or more virtual storage resources e.g. cloud storage a virtual private network and or other virtual storage resources . Electronic storage may store software algorithms information determined by processor s information received from components of system and or other information that enables server s and or client device s to function as described herein.

Server s and client device s may include processor s . Processor s may be configured to provide information processing capabilities in server s and or client device s . The functionality of processor s may be similar between different instantiations even if the processing capabilities may be different. Processor s may include one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor s is shown in as a single entity this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor s may include a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device or processor s may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination. The processor s may be configured to execute modules and or other modules. Processor may be configured to execute modules and or other modules by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor s .

It should be appreciated that although modules are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor s includes multiple processing units one or more of modules may be located remotely from the other modules. The description of the functionality provided by the different modules described below is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of modules may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of modules may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of modules . As another example processor may be configured to execute one or more additional modules that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed herein to one of modules .

It is noted that the division of functionality between server s and client device s is not intended to be limited by this disclosure. Functions described in relation with server s may be performed and or shared by one or more other components of system including client device s and or vice versa.

In some implementations methods and may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of methods and in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of methods and .

Referring to at an operation incoming emergency voice calls are received that have been placed to an emergency call center through an emergency communications network. The emergency voice calls have been placed from wireless mobile devices. The incoming emergency voice calls include a first voice call from a first wireless mobile device. In some embodiments operation is performed by a call reception module the same as or similar to call reception module shown in and described herein .

At an operation outgoing textual messages are generated for transmission to wireless mobile devices from which incoming emergency voice calls are received such that a first outgoing textual message is generated for transmission to the first wireless mobile device based on the first voice call. In some embodiments operation is performed by an outgoing message module the same as or similar to outgoing message module shown in and described herein .

At an operation the outgoing textual messages are transmitted to the appropriate wireless mobile devices through a second communications network that is different than the emergency communications network such that the first outgoing textual message is transmitted to the first wireless mobile device through the second communications network. In some embodiments operation is performed by a transmission module the same as or similar to transmission module shown in and described herein .

Referring to at an operation incoming emergency voice calls are received that have been placed to an emergency call center through an emergency communications network. The emergency voice calls have been placed from wireless mobile devices. The incoming emergency voice calls include a first voice call from a first wireless mobile device. In some embodiments operation is performed by a call reception module the same as or similar to call reception module shown in and described herein .

At an operation outgoing textual messages are generated for transmission to wireless mobile devices from which incoming emergency voice calls are received such that a first outgoing textual message is generated for transmission to the first wireless mobile device based on the first voice call. The first outgoing textual message includes textual emergency instructions. In some embodiments operation is performed by an outgoing message module the same as or similar to outgoing message module shown in and described herein .

At an operation the outgoing textual messages are transmitted to the appropriate wireless mobile devices such that the first outgoing textual message is transmitted to the first wireless mobile device. In some embodiments operation is performed by a transmission module the same as or similar to transmission module shown in and described herein .

Referring to at an operation incoming emergency voice calls are received that have been placed to an emergency call center through an emergency communications network. The emergency voice calls have been placed from wireless mobile devices. The incoming emergency voice calls include a first voice call by a caller from a first wireless mobile device. In some embodiments operation is performed by a call reception module the same as or similar to call reception module shown in and described herein .

At an operation outgoing textual messages are generated for transmission to wireless mobile devices from which incoming emergency voice calls are received such that a first outgoing textual message is generated for transmission to the first wireless mobile device based on the first voice call. The first outgoing textual message includes a uniform resource locator URL link to a web hosted application configured to query and or prompt the first wireless mobile device and or the caller for location information. In some embodiments operation is performed by an outgoing message module the same as or similar to outgoing message module shown in and described herein .

At an operation the outgoing textual messages are transmitted to the appropriate wireless mobile devices such that the first outgoing textual message is transmitted to the first wireless mobile device. In some embodiments operation is performed by a transmission module the same as or similar to transmission module shown in and described herein .

At an operation the location information is obtained responsive to the first wireless mobile device being queried. In some embodiments operation is performed by a presentation module the same as or similar to presentation module shown in and described herein .

Referring to at an operation a web resources is hosted that is accessible through a uniform resource locator URL address. In some embodiments operation is performed by a web hosting module the same as or similar to web hosting module shown in and described herein .

At an operation a request is received from a wireless mobile device. In some embodiments operation is performed by a web hosting module the same as or similar to web hosting module shown in and described herein .

At an operation an identifier is received that is associated with the request. In some embodiments operation is performed by a web hosting module the same as or similar to web hosting module shown in and described herein .

At an operation a response is transmitted to the wireless mobile device. The response includes a query for location information. In some embodiments operation is performed by a web hosting module the same as or similar to web hosting module shown in and described herein .

At an operation the queried location information is received from the wireless mobile device. In some embodiments operation is performed by a web hosting module the same as or similar to web hosting module shown in and described herein .

At an operation the queried location information and the received identifier are provided to one or more emergency operators. In some embodiments operation is performed by a web hosting module the same as or similar to web hosting module shown in and described herein .

Although the present technology has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the technology is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the claims. For example it is to be understood that the present technology contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

