---

title: Ultra-wide-band (UWB) antenna assembly with at least one director and electromagnetic reflective subassembly and method
abstract: An ultra-wideband antenna assembly comprising:


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444147&OS=09444147&RS=09444147
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09444147
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130905
---
This application claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 848 380 entitled Wideband Electromagnetic Stacked Reflective Surface by Dr. Amir Ibrahim Zaghloul and Dr. William O Keefe Coburn filed Mar. 21 2013 ARL 12 19 which in turn claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 713 030 ARL 11 19 filed Dec. 13 2012 entitled A Broadband Electromagnetic Band Gap EBG Structure by Dr. Amir Zaghloul and Dr. Steven Weiss which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 601 584 filed Feb. 22 2012. This application also claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 184692 ARL 10 03 entitled Coplanar Waveguide Fed Monopole Antenna filed by Youn M. Lee on Jul. 18 2011. All of the above applications to which priority is claimed are herein incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties.

The Yagi Uda dipole array is a directional antenna consisting of a driven element usually a dipole or folded dipole and additional parasitic elements usually a referred to as a reflector and one or more directors . Also disclosing additional directors is U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 383080 entitled Multi Element Patch Antenna and Method by Michael Josypenko filed Mar. 13 2009 which discloses a driven antenna element mounted on a circuit board with a ground plane formed on the opposite side. At least one parasitic antenna element may be mounted coaxial with and spaced apart from the driven antenna element at an offset distance.

To reduce the radiation to the back side of the monopole and increase its gain a reflector layer can be added at the side of the monopole that is opposite to the director side. A conducting ground plane can function as such reflector but it has to be placed a quarter wavelength under the monopole in order to produce the right reflection phase. This narrow band solution also has the disadvantage of increasing the dimension of the antenna in the direction perpendicular to the monopole plane.

By putting a perfect metal conductor behind an antenna a reflection will occur at 180 degrees phase difference which leads to cancellation of the radiating waves. Placement of the sheet at one quarter wavelength alleviates this problem but requires a minimum thickness or spacing of 4. However spacing the antenna at one quarter wavelength of the center frequency so that the reflected wave and the radiated wave constructively combine along the boresight of the antenna tends to consume excessive space. Moreover surface currents or waves may develop in the metal sheet leading to the propagation of interfering waves of radiation.

In the article entitled High Impedance Electromagnetic Surfaces with a Forbidden Frequency Band IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques Vol. 47 No. 11 November 1999 pages 2069 2074 herein incorporated by reference there is described a type of metallic electromagnetic structure that is characterized by having high surface impedance and although it is made of continuous metal and conducts dc currents it does not conduct ac currents within a forbidden frequency band. Unlike normal conductors the surface does not support propagating surface waves and its image currents are not phase reversed. The geometry is analogous to a corrugated metal surface in which the corrugations have been folded up into lumped circuit elements and distributed in a two dimensional lattice. The uses include low profile antennas.

The publication by E. Yablonovitch entitled Photonic band gap structure J. Opt. Soc. Amer. B Opt. Phys. vol. 10 pp 283 295 February 1993 describes how a photonic semiconductor can be doped producing tiny electromagnetic cavities. The article postulates that structures made of positive dielectric constant materials such as glasses and insulators can be arrayed into a three dimensionally periodic dielectric structure making a photonic band gap possible employing a purely real reactive dielectric response. The photonic band gap described in the Yablonovitch reference refers to the band gap or an area where electron hole recombination into photons is inhibited.

Electromagnetic reflective structures are usually periodic consisting of metal patches that are separated by a small gap and vias or pins that connect the patches to the ground plane. The electrical equivalent circuit consists of a resonant tank circuit whose capacitance is represented by the gap between the patches and the inductance represented by the via. See in this regard D. Sievenpiper L. Zhang R. Broas N. Alexopolous and E. Yablonovitch High impedance frequency selective surface with forbidden frequency band IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech. vol. 47 pp 2059 2074 November 1999 and or D. Sievenpiper High impedance Electromagnetic Surfaces Ph. D. dissertation Dep. Elect. Eng. Univ. California at Los Angeles Los Angeles Calif. 1999 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The electromagnetic reflective structures are in effect a magnetic surface at the frequency of resonance and thus have very high surface impedance. This makes a tangential current element close to the electronic band gap structure equivalent to two current elements oriented in the same direction without the electronic reflective structure which helps to enhance the forward radiation instead of completely canceling it as suggested by the image theory. This makes electronic reflective structures useful when mounting an antenna close to a ground plane provided the antenna s currents are parallel to the electronic reflective structure. Electronic reflective structures have previously been known to operate over a very narrow band and thus not useful with a broadband antenna.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises an ultra wideband antenna assembly comprising an electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure for reflecting electromagnetic waves in a first direction an antenna operatively associated with the electromagnetic reflective structure or subassembly such that electromagnetic waves emitted from the antenna towards the electromagnetic wave reflective subassembly or structure are reflected back by the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure in the first direction the antenna being substantially planar and extending in a first plane the first direction being substantially perpendicular to the first plane and at least one director operatively associated with the antenna for focusing the electromagnetic waves transmitted by the antenna in the first direction the at least one director being substantially planar and extending in a second plane wherein the second plane is substantially parallel to the first plane. Optionally the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure may comprise a plurality of patches extending in a third plane substantially parallel to the first plane. Optionally the antenna may be supported by a dielectric substrate and may be driven by an electrically conductive coplanar waveguide in electrical communication with the antenna the electrically conductive coplanar waveguide comprising two ground planes supported by the dielectric substrate. Optionally the antenna may be a planar circular monopole antenna and the dielectric substrate may be either fiberglass reinforced epoxy laminate FR 4 polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE composites reinforced with glass microfibers or ceramic or combinations thereof and the dielectric substrate may be rectilinear in shape. As a further option the antenna may be rectilinear ellipsoidal pentagonal hexagonal or polygon with seven or more sides or arbitrary in shape and the ground planes may be rectilinear. Optionally the preferred embodiment assembly may comprise a plurality of directors each director may be substantially planar and extend in a plane substantially parallel and spaced apart planes.

The electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure may comprise first and second surfaces having spaced patches of conductive material thereon having high impedance and forming substantially optimal magnetic conductors whereby the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure operates to reflect radiated electromagnetic radiation originating from the antenna the radiation reflected by the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure such that the phase of the electromagnetic waves reflected from first and second surfaces or groups of patches results in the constructive addition of the originating and reflected waves thus enhancing the radiation of electromagnetic waves by the antenna. The first and second surfaces or groups may be substantially parallel stacked layers each layer resonating at a different frequency leading to a plurality of resonances created in the cavities between the first and second surfaces or groups at different frequencies resulting in operation of the antenna at a broadband of frequencies and wherein the plurality of resonances are a function of the spacing between patches of conductive material and the size of the patches.

Optionally the first and second surfaces or groups may be separated by at least one dielectric material comprising one of ceramic foam and plastic such that the spacing between the first and second surfaces or groups of patches forms a resonant cavity. Optionally the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure may comprise at least three layers arranged as top middle and bottom layers and the dimensions of the 3 stacked layers may be selected such that the bottom layer resonates at 0.6 GHz the middle layer resonates at 0.9 GHz and the top layer resonates at 1.1 GHz. As another example the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure may comprise a first plurality of spaced apart patches of conductive material extending in a third plane substantially parallel to the planes of the antenna the first plurality of spaced apart patches operating to reflect electromagnetic waves in a first frequency range a second layer substantially parallel to and separated from the first layer the second layer being substantially planar and comprising a second plurality of spaced apart patches of conductive material operating to reflect electromagnetic waves in a second frequency range a third layer substantially parallel to and separated from the first and second layers the third layer being substantially planar and comprising a third plurality of spaced apart patches of conductive material operating to reflect electromagnetic waves in a third frequency range the first and third frequency ranges being additive such that the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure reflects electromagnetic waves in a ultra wide frequency band. The patches in the respective layers may be of different sizes so as to produce a resonate effect at different ranges of frequency.

Optionally the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure may comprise a base and the first second and third plurality of patches are supported by a first second and third plurality of supports the first supports extending between the first plurality of patches and second plurality of patches the second supports extending between the second plurality of patches and third plurality of patches the third supports extending between the third plurality of patches and the base. The first and second plurality of patches may extend in two directions and the regions between may comprise resonant cavities.

The region between the first layer and second layer may comprise a first resonant cavity and the region between the second layer and third layer may comprise a second resonant cavity the first and second resonant cavities each operating to form first and second resonant tank circuits the capacitance of the first resonant tank circuit being dependent upon the distance between the first and second plurality of patches and the capacitance of the second resonant tank circuit being dependent upon the distance between the second and third patches and wherein the inductance of the first and second resonant tank circuits comprises the electrical characteristics of the first and second supports respectfully. Optionally radiation reflected by the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure from the antenna is such that the phase of the electromagnetic waves reflected from first second and third layers areas results in the constructive addition of the originating and reflected waves thus enhancing the radiation of electromagnetic waves by the antenna. In addition the first second and third plurality of patches may be supported by a first second and third dielectric layers.

A preferred methodology of the present invention is a method of making an ultrawideband antenna comprising providing an electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure for reflecting electromagnetic radiation the electromagnetic wave reflective subassembly or structure operating to reflect waves in a first direction providing an antenna operatively associated with the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure such that waves emitted from the antenna towards the electromagnetic wave reflective subassembly or structure are reflected back by the electromagnetic reflective subassembly or structure towards the antenna the antenna being substantially planar and extending in a substantially in a first plane providing at least one director operatively associated with the antenna for focusing the electromagnetic waves transmitted by the antenna the at least one director being substantially planar and extending in a second plane wherein the second plane is substantially parallel to the first plane and providing an electrically conductive coplanar waveguide in electrical communication with the antenna the electrically conductive coplanar waveguide comprising two ground planes supported by a dielectric substrate.

A more complete appreciation of the invention will be readily obtained by reference to the following Description of the Preferred Embodiments and the accompanying drawings in which like numerals in different figures represent the same structures or elements. The representations in each of the figures are diagrammatic and no attempt is made to indicate actual scales or precise ratios. Proportional relationships are shown as approximates.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

Referring now to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 713 030 ARL 11 19 filed Dec. 13 2012 entitled A Broadband Electromagnetic Band Gap EBG Structure by Dr. Amir Zaghloul and Dr. Steven Weiss U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 713 030 ARL 11 19 to which priority is being claimed discloses methods and apparatus for providing a broadband electromagnetic reflective structure referred to therein as Electromagnetic Band Gap EBG Structure. Electromagnetic band gap structures are generally passive devices useful in conjunction with antennas that provide a reflective surface behind the antenna to allow for phase difference that does not lead to cancellation of the propagating wave. Electromagnetic band gap structures may for example be periodic structures that have special properties such as high surface impedance which prevent the abovementioned surface currents . Accordingly a ground plane having electronic band gap structures formed thereon can act as a near perfect magnetic conducting structure and therefore suppress the formation of surface waves. Heretofore the terminology band gap referred to the operation of the device between the stop band where waves are not propagated and the pass band where waves are propagated leading to the creation of a band gap in the frequency region where waves are propagated. However the structures being described herein are not limited to a band gap structures per se. Some embodiments include a cascade of differently sized reflective structures each of which resonates at a different but closely spaced frequency. In some embodiments this is accomplished by using concentric patterns of reflective structures each pattern having a basic cell size that progressively increases the further the cell is positioned from a central point so as to cause resonances at closely spaced frequency bands thereby providing a continuous ultra wideband operational bandwidth for the progressive reflective structure. In some embodiments the concentric cascade of reflective patterns are provided as a single tier structure and in other embodiments each pattern is provided on a different tier. In even further embodiments a parallel cascade of reflective patterns is provided. The reflective structure can be designed to operate over a wide band and because of its reflection phase characteristics it can be placed close to the monopole plane. This reduces the overall size of the antenna. The combination of a director element in front of the monopole and an EBG reflective surface behind it produce the predicted Yagi Uda effect of high directive gain across the wide frequency band.

Referring now to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 848 380 entitled Wideband Electromagnetic Stacked Reflective Surface by Dr. Amir Ibrahim Zaghloul and Dr. William O Keefe Coburn filed Mar. 21 2013 ARL 12 19 there is disclosed an electromagnetic structure for reflecting electromagnetic waves comprising a first surface having spaced patches of conductive material thereon a second surface separated from the first surface having spaced patches of conductive material the first and second surfaces having high impedance and forming substantially optimal magnetic conductors the electromagnetic structure adapted to be used in conjunction with an associated antenna that radiates electromagnetic radiation originating therefrom the radiation is reflected by the electromagnetic structure such that the phase of the electromagnetic waves reflected from first and second surfaces results in the constructive addition of the originating and reflected waves thus enhancing the radiation of electromagnetic waves by the associated antenna. Each of the first and second surfaces comprise stacked layers resonating at a different frequency leading to a plurality of resonances at different frequencies resulting in operation of the associated antenna at a broadband of frequencies. The multiple resonances being a function of the spacing between patches of conductive material and the size of the patches. The conductive material portions are substantially planar and are substantially parallel to one another the electromagnetic waves being reflected in the forward direction away from the first surface. The first and second layers may be separated by at least one dielectric material wherein the spacing between the first and second layers forms a resonant cavity.

An alternate preferred embodiment comprises an electromagnetic structure for reflecting electromagnetic waves comprising a first planar area comprising a first plurality of spaced apart patches of conductive material the first plurality of spaced apart patches operating to reflect electromagnetic waves in a first frequency range a second planar area substantially parallel to and separated from the first planar area the second planar area comprising a second plurality of spaced apart patches of conductive material operating to reflect electromagnetic waves in a second frequency range a third planar area substantially parallel to and separated from the first and second planar areas the third planar area comprising a third plurality of spaced apart patches of conductive material operating to reflect electromagnetic waves in a third frequency range the first and third frequency ranges being additive such that the electromagnetic structure reflects electromagnetic waves in a ultra wide frequency band whereby the electromagnetic structure is adapted to be used in conjunction with an associated antenna that radiates electromagnetic radiation originating therefrom the radiation being reflected by the electromagnetic structure being such that the phase of the electromagnetic waves reflected from first and second layers results in the constructive addition of the originating and reflected waves thus enhancing the radiation of electromagnetic waves by the associated antenna.

The alternate preferred embodiment electromagnetic structure may further comprising a base layer which conforms in shape to the object upon which the electromagnetic structure is secured the object being one of a human body aircraft and motor vehicle and wherein the range of the ultra wide frequency band exceeds 500 MHZ. The first second and third plurality of patches may have different sizes so as to produce a resonate effect at different ranges of frequency. The structure may optionally comprise a base and optionally the first second and third plurality of patches may extend in two dimensions and be supported by a first second and third plurality of supports the first supports extending between the first plurality of patches and second plurality of patches the second supports extending between the second plurality of patches and third plurality of patches the third supports extending between the third plurality of patches and the base.

The alternate preferred embodiment may optionally include a region between the first planar area and second planar area comprising a first resonant cavity and a region between the second planar area and third planar area comprising a second resonant cavity the first and second resonant cavities each operating to form first and second resonant tank circuits the capacitance of the first resonant tank circuit being dependent upon the distance between the first and second plurality of patches and the capacitance of the second resonant tank circuit being dependent upon the distance between the second and third patches and wherein the inductance of the first and second resonant tank circuits comprises the electrical characteristics of the first and second supports respectfully.

Referring now to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 184692 ARL 10 03 entitled Coplanar Waveguide Fed Monopole Antenna filed by Youn M. Lee on Jul. 18 2011 a planar monopole antenna is disclosed that includes a dielectric substrate with an electrically conductive antenna element adhered to the substrate surface. A coplanar waveguide is also adhered to the same surface of the dielectric substrate to feed the antenna element. A microwave absorber layer is adhered to an opposing rearward surface of the dielectric substrate. The resultant antenna lowers operating frequency compared to an ultrawideband antenna lacking the microwave absorber layer. As a result the lowest operating frequency of the ultrawideband antenna is lowered by a factor of five when approximately one inch thick microwave absorber was added to the opposite side of the antenna element and coplanar waveguide.

Referring now to the preferred embodiment comprises three major subassemblies an ultra wideband antenna a director and an electromagnetic reflective structure . Note that although the director element appears smaller than the antenna element the director element may be the same size as element or monopole or different depending on wideband multiple band requirements. The electromagnetic reflective subassembly may be single resonance multiple resonance progressive or multiple resonance stacked. The director and the antenna may be bonded together using a foam sheet and adhesive. The director subassembly comprises a patch which may for example be circular electrically connected to a center conductor of the coplanar waveguide which may be for example rectangular positioned between two planar waveguides and which may be for example rectangular. The director subassembly may be positioned or mounted to a dielectric which may be for example a foam sheet having a thickness of approximately one inch.

The antenna subassembly comprises a circular patch antenna and an underlying dielectric substrate . The antenna element is fed by a coplanar waveguide consisted of ground planes and a center conductor . is a schematic depiction of a preferred embodiment antenna subassembly showing examples of approximate measurements or dimensions of elements and differences or gaps between elements associated with performance characteristics of a given antenna assembly. These parameters include substrate width W substrate length L lateral separation h between antenna element and coplanar waveguide antenna element radius r separation gap g between a ground plane and the center conductor width of ground plane Gw lateral extent of ground plane GL the center conductor of the coplanar waveguide width Cw and the thickness of the dielectric material t. As an example the dimensions may be as follows. The substrate width W may be for example a 1.575 millimeter thick FR 4 substrate. The dimensions may for example be as follows w 152 mm L 152 mm h 3 mm r 55 mm g 0.393 mm Gw 73.607 mm. GL 20 mm Cw 4 mm t 1.575 mm.

While depicts a prototypical circular antenna element with the other portions of the antenna subassembly being rectilinear it is appreciated that dimensions of the various components of the antenna subassembly need to be very specific to work properly. By way of example a radiating element is also formed in other geometric shapes and polygons. An antenna element center conductor and ground planes and are formed of highly conductive materials conventional to the art illustratively including copper copper alloys gold gold alloys and combinations thereof. A dielectric substrate is readily formed from a variety of dielectric substances through recognition that the dielectric constant of the substrate is relevant in determining the physical size of an antenna. Dielectric substrates operative herein illustratively include fiberglass reinforced epoxy laminate NEMA designation FR 4 polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE composites reinforced with glass microfibers such as those commercially available under the trade name DUROID and ceramic material such as alumina.

For the director subassembly in a directional antenna a parasitic element is situated in front of the radiator and separated from it by an appropriate fraction of a wavelength. Its function is to intensify radiation in the direction of transmission. In the preferred embodiment the director subassembly resembles the antenna subassembly except for two items the dielectric material thickness is for example 0.0254 cm and the radius of the radiator is for example 2.97 cm. The director subassembly and the antenna subassembly are bonded together using a one inch thick foam sheet and adhesive. Dielectric constant of the foam sheet is for example 1.05 and loss tangent is for example 0.0002. The two ground planes of the director should be shorted using an air bridge.

The electromagnetic reflective structure is made of small highly conductive patches such as copper supported by a thin dielectric and foam material located 5.08 cm below the antenna as shown in . Bottom of the electromagnetic reflective structure may have a thin copper sheet. Each of the patches in the electromagnetic reflective structure may have dimensions of for example 0.198 0.198 2.54 10cm and grounded by using a via at the center of the patch. In a preferred embodiment the gap between patches is 0.075 cm. Overall size of the reflective structure is for example 15.24 15.24 1.73 cm. The dielectric material is for example 0.0127 cm thick dielectric constant is for example 2.2 and loss tangent is for example 0.0009. Detailed close up top and a side view of the electromagnetic reflective structure is also included in the . An air gap exists between the antenna subassembly and the electromagnetic reflective structure of approximately in this example 5.08 cm.

Another embodiment of the electromagnetic reflective structure can be a broad band multiple resonance structure. This is applied relative to the circular monopole antenna as described above with the exception of constructing the electromagnetic reflective structure with tiers of different dimensions that resonate at different frequencies. The tiers can be co planar or stacked. The design also may be free of the grounding vias. The dimensions of the electromagnetic reflective structure patches and the spacing between them are adjusted to produce the inductive effects generated by the vias. This can apply to the single or multiple resonance electromagnetic reflective structure. The elimination of the vias simplifies the fabrication of the electromagnetic reflective structure considerably.

In accordance with the principles of the present invention Equations 1 through 5 give the surface impedance resonance frequency inductance capacitance and the bandwidth respectively of an electronic reflecting structure . Around the resonance frequency the surface impedance of the electronic structure is very high and thus does not support a surface wave so the incident wave is reflected in phase which helps enhance the forward radiation of the antenna placed on the surface. A wave incident on a perfect electric conductor PEC is reflected 180 degrees out of phase. Since the total tangential component has to go to zero this results in the reflected wave cancelling with the incident wave and resulting in a null in the radiation pattern at boresight. The band gap of a structure is defined as the frequency band where the reflection phase is in the 90 to 90 degree range. Reflection phase of the electronic structure is calculated by using a plane wave incidence determining the phase of the received signal at boresight in the far field and then comparing it with a known reflection phase e.g. PEC plate . Uniform Electronic Band Gap structures usually have narrow bandwidth which is the primary reason why they are not widely used with broadband antennas.

To increase the bandwidth of a uniform Electronic Band Gap a progressive electromagnetic reflective structure formed by cascading uniform electromagnetic reflective structures that resonate at different bands is proposed in A. I. Zaghloul S. Palreddy S. J. Weiss A Concept for a Broadband Electromagnetic Band Gap EBG Structure Proceedings of the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation EuCAP pp 383 387 April 2011 hereby incorporated by reference. Progressive electromagnetic reflective structures can be used with antennas where different parts of the antenna radiate at different frequencies. This design is not a good candidate to use with broadband antennas when the whole structure contributes to the radiation across the band.

The preferred electronic reflecting structure shown in is for usage with the embodiments of and comprises a stacked electromagnetic reflective structure formed by stacking layers that resonate at different frequencies within the operating band. This is reported in S. Palreddy A. I. Zaghloul Y. M. Lee An Octave Bandwidth Electromagnetic Band Gap EBG Structure for a UWB Antenna European Conference on Antennas and Propagation EuCAP March 2012 hereby incorporated by reference. The outer most layer closest to the antenna not shown comprises patches which are separated by gaps as shown in . The patches may be made from a metallic material such as copper gold or silver and may be placed on a nonconductor substrate such as silicon in that case the silicon would extended in the gaps . The silicon substrate would extend across the area shown and patches may be formed by etching a copper sheet formed on the substrate layer. Patches are supported by supports through as shown in but optionally may be supported by a singular piece of dielectric such as ceramic or foam material to thereby eliminate the need for supports . The second layer comprises patches through which may be made from a metallic material such as copper gold or silver and may be placed on a nonconductor substrate such as silicon. Patches through are separated by gaps which produce a different resonance effect than that of patches and gaps . Patches through may be formed by etching a metallic sheet formed on the substrate layer in that case the substrate layer such as for example silicon would extend in the gaps and . The second layer of patches through may be supported by the supports through but optionally may be supported by a singular piece of dielectric such as ceramic or foam material to thereby eliminate the need for supports through . The third layer of patches and are separated by a gap which may be produced by etching a metallic sheet. The patches and may be made from a metallic material such as copper gold or silver and may be placed on a nonconductor substrate such as silicon in that case the silicon would extended in the gap . The third layer of patches through may be supported by the supports and but optionally may be supported by a singular piece of dielectric such as ceramic or foam material to thereby eliminate the need for supports and . The fourth layer comprises patch which may be made from a metallic material such as copper gold or silver and may be placed on a nonconductor substrate such as silicon. It can be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that each of the four layers provide a reflective structure wherein the bandwidth of the structure is improved by stacking layers that resonate at frequency bands that extend over different frequency band ranges yet the resonate frequency ranges of the layers and are substantially close to one other so as to provide a wide band gap area of operation for the entire assembly. Note that is side view of the assembly shown in .

As discussed in detail in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 848 380 entitled Wideband Electromagnetic Stacked Reflective Surface by Dr. Amir Ibrahim Zaghloul and Dr. William O Keefe Coburn filed Mar. 21 2013 ARL 12 19 the dimensions of the stacked layers and are functions of the desired resonance frequencies. Using FEKO see FEKO Computational Electromagnetics EM Software and Systems Pty Ltd. http www.feko.info the reflection phase of the stacked electromagnetic reflective structure was computed and compared with the reflection phase of a uniform electromagnetic reflective structure. The dimensions of the uniform electromagnetic reflective structure are selected such that it resonates at 0.9 GHz. The dimensions of the 3 layer stacked electromagnetic reflective structure are selected such that the bottom layer resonates at 0.6 GHz the middle layer resonates at 0.9 GHz and the top layer resonates at 1.1 GHz.

The stacked electronic reflective structure concept described here can serve as a broadband reflector in many antenna applications without the restriction of being a quarter wavelength from the source. Its main use is to reduce the depth of cavity backed antennas which require broader bandwidth than conventional electronic reflector structure designs can provide. This allows the integration of conformal antennas with reduced depth onto military platforms. Lower profile antennas have many advantages on the modern battlefield. The stacked electronic reflector structure concept is an enabling technology for advanced antenna designs and vehicle integrated antennas compared to bolt on antenna installations.

The concept and or scope of the present invention is not limited to three layers and additional layers can further extend the bandwidth at the expense of increased fabrication complexity. For some antenna types non uniform or progressive electronic reflector layers can be incorporated to improve performance. Additional layers can be used to extend bandwidth and or increase gain where the design of the electronic reflector structure is specific to the antenna and can be readily optimized for a given application. The fabrication cost and complexity are current issues being addressed. In particular an approach that does not use vertical vias is being pursued to reduce cost weight and fabrication complexity. Such variations are also covered by this concept disclosure and are important for the further development of electronic reflector structures in practical antenna installations.

The electromagnetic reflective structure affords a way to increase the bandwidth of a single uniform electronic reflective structure by stacking uniform electronic reflective structure layers that resonate at different frequencies within the desired frequency band. The performance of the stacked electronic reflective structure is validated by using it with a monopole UWB antenna. Its performance is compared with different loading structures to demonstrate its superiority for many antenna applications. Boresight gain gain patterns and return loss of the antenna are compared under the loading conditions of free space metal plate uniform single resonance electronic reflective structure and stacked triple resonance electronic reflective structure.

An antenna was simulated using a full wave three dimensional High Frequency Structure Simulator HFSS and its return loss was computed which is shown in . Specifically illustrates the return loss of printed circular monopole fed by a co planar waveguide CPW designed for the 700 3000 MHz band. As indicated in the figure the values are mostly below 10 dB for frequencies from 700 MHz to 3000 MHz. is an illustration showing a plot of realized gain of the antenna computed from 700 MHz 3 GH obtained by adding a monopole of similar or smaller diameter in front of the circular monopole described in which changes the omni directional beam in the H plane to a more directive beam. The second monopole acts as director and is placed at an optimum height above the CPW fed monopole. The line with diamond tick marks is the realized gain of the basic monopole antenna. Antenna with a director was also computed and their combined result is plotted with square tick marks.

The performance realized by adding a director to the antenna is shown realized gain square tick marks and return loss respectively. illustrates realized gain of a printed circular monopole fed by a CPW diamond shaped plot as compared with the director enhanced monopole square shaped plot across the 700 3000 MHz band. As can be seen in significant improvement was achieved in realized gain for frequencies above 1.6 GHz.

An electromagnetic reflective structure was placed 5.08 cm below the antenna in simulation and their computed performance is displayed in and return loss and realized gain respectively. The return loss is below 10 dB for the entire frequency band of 700 MHz 3000 MHz. is a plot showing S of an antenna with a director. Beyond the third marker is a 10 dB in return loss starting at approximately 1.2 GHz.

The electromagnetic reflective structure is placed such that electromagnetic reflective structure effects and ground reflection effects are combined. Improvement of gain from 700 MHz to about 2 GHz is attributable to electromagnetic reflective structure and improvement above 2 GHz is credited to ground plane reflection since it is placed a quarter wave length behind an antenna at 2 GHz see . However it appears that phase canceling of the two components occurs around 2.2 GHz resulting in reduction of gain around that frequency.

Following the analogy of the Yagi Uda array to reduce the radiation to the back side of the monopole and increase its gain a reflective layer can be added at the side of the monopole that is opposite to the director side. A conducting ground plane can function as such reflector but it has to be placed a quarter wavelength under the monopole in order to produce the right reflection phase. This narrow band solution also has the disadvantage of increasing the dimension of the antenna in the direction perpendicular to the monopole plane. An alternative to the conducting plane reflector is the addition of an electromagnetic reflective structure which is designed to operate over a wide band and because of its reflection phase characteristics it can be placed close to the monopole plane which reduces the overall size of the antenna assembly. A return loss plot of the monopole plus director over an electromagnetic reflective surface is shown in .

The electromagnetic reflective structure and the director described above are added to the antenna in simulation. As can be seen in the three combinations provide better performance than that of other combinations exhibited especially above 1.6 GHz. shows the realized gain plot of an ultra wideband antenna with an electromagnetic reflector structure and a director the line with x tick marks. It is overlaid with other combinations described previously. The line with diamond tick marks is antenna only the line with triangle tick marks is antenna with a director and the line with square tick marks is antenna with electromagnetic reflective structure. The effect of adding the electromagnetic reflector surface on the gain of the director enhanced monopole antenna is shown in FIG.. shows that the combination of a director element in front of the monopole and an electromagnetic reflector structure behind it produce the predicted Yagi Uda effect of high directive gain across the wide frequency band.

The preferred embodiment uses somewhat thin dielectric materials 0.0254 cm and 0.157 cm and very lightweight form to minimize its weight and extremely thin copper sheet less than 2.54 10cm.

Known and possible uses of invention include use as an ultra wideband antenna and also in many single dual triple or more simultaneous frequency operations. In addition the antenna can be scaled to adjust to a particular frequency band of interest.

Referring to improvement of gain from 700 MHz to about 2 GHz is attributable to electromagnetic reflective structure and improvement of gain above 2 GHz is credited to ground plane reflection a quarter wave length behind an antenna. It appears that phase canceling of the two components occurs around 2.2 GHz resulting in reduction of gain around that frequency. This is compensated for by using the director in front of the antenna.

The present invention relates to ultra wideband antenna with a director and an electromagnetic reflective structure A. The present invention consists of an ultra wideband antenna a director and an electromagnetic reflective structure A optimally placed to work together to provide optimal gain and good return loss. The combinations of the three elements provide excellent gain over a very wide frequency band. Previous applications of the electromagnetic reflective structure have been limited to very narrow band antenna applications since the electromagnetic reflective structure was known to work in a very narrow band. However it was demonstrated that by placing the electromagnetic reflective structure below and away from the antenna and using the director above the antenna as shown in this invention disclosure the electromagnetic reflective structure works over more than an octave frequency band. A further increase in the electromagnetic reflective structure bandwidth can be obtained by using multiple resonance structures.

As used herein the terminology electromagnetic reflective structure refers to a structure or subassembly which reflects electromagnetic radiation.

As used herein the terminology electromagnetic reflective subassembly refers to a structure which reflects electromagnetic radiation.

As used herein the terminology substantially optimal magnetic conductor means a conductor having nearly perfect magnetic conductance.

As used herein the terminology resonance relates to electromagnetic resonance and relates to the tendency of a system or structure to oscillate with greater amplitude at some frequencies than at others. Resonant or resonance frequencies occur when the response amplitude is a relative maximum.

As used here in a cavity resonator is a hollow conductor blocked at both ends and along which an electromagnetic wave can be supported similar in nature to a waveguide short circuited at both ends. The cavity s interior surfaces reflect a wave of a specific frequency. When a wave that is resonant with the cavity enters it bounces back and forth within the cavity with low loss forming a standing wave . As more wave energy enters the cavity it combines with and reinforces the standing wave increasing its intensity.

As used herein the word size is not limited to a measure of physical characteristics but also includes a measure of electrical characteristics.

As used herein the terminology incident radiation refers to the radiation hitting a specific surface.

As used herein the terminology stacked means an orderly pile such as for example one arranged in layers.

As used herein the terminology UWB or ultra wide frequency band means a transmission from an antenna for which the emitted signal bandwidth exceeds the lesser of 500 MHz or 20 of the center frequency.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention many be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

