---

title: Bootstrap authentication framework
abstract: A bootstrap authentication framework may automatically provide stored authentication credentials to an application server on behalf of an application. The bootstrap authentication framework may receive an access request from a protocol handler to access the authentication credentials stored in a subscriber identity module (SIM) of the electronic device. The access request may be initiated by an application that uses the authentication credentials to access a network service on an application server. In turn, the bootstrap authentication framework may provide the authentication credentials to the protocol handler when a digital signature associated with the protocol handler indicates that the protocol handler is allowed to access the authentication credentials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380038&OS=09380038&RS=09380038
owner: T-Mobile USA, Inc.
number: 09380038
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130306
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 609 139 to Alexandru Catalin Ionescu entitled GBA Extensions and API filed on Mar. 9 2012 and incorporated herein by reference.

Electronic devices such as smart phones and netbooks may host applications that make network calls to request data and services from application servers that are accessible through a telecommunication network. For example an electronic device may host a browser an electronic mail client and or a media player. An application server may request that these applications provide authentication credentials to the application servers prior to distributing data and services to these applications.

Traditional telecommunication networks may use techniques such as subscriber profile insertion to insert authentication credentials in the form of subscriber identities into data or service request traffic originating from the applications on the electronic devices. In turn the application servers may rely on such authentication credentials in order to authenticate and authorize the electronic devices to access data or services. For example in a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS scenario a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN of the telecommunication network may insert a Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network Number MSISDN of a subscriber into a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Get Message or a HTTP Post Message that is destined for an application server.

However there may be several drawbacks to the subscriber profile insertion techniques. First the reliance on a data gateway of the telecommunication network to insert credential information into data or service request traffic may place additional resource burdens on the telecommunication network. Second the application servers may be forced to rely on authentication credentials that are inserted by another entity in the data path in order to protect access to sensitive or valuable data or services. Moreover subscriber profile insertion cannot be used in conjunction with encrypted data connections between electronic devices and application servers. The data gateway of the telecommunication network is incapable of inserting credentials into encrypted traffic between an electronic device and an application server. Further current subscriber profile insertion techniques are not compatible with the use of Wi Fi connections to connect electronic devices to application servers.

Described herein are techniques for implementing a bootstrap authentication framework on an electronic device. The bootstrap authentication framework may enable applications on the electronic device to authenticate to an application server using authentication credentials that are stored in the Subscriber Identity Module SIM of the electronic device. The bootstrap authentication framework may act as an extension to the protocol handlers that are in installed on the electronic device. In turn the bootstrap authentication framework may provide application programming interfaces APIs to the protocol handlers. The protocol handlers may call the APIs to obtain the authentication credentials that are stored in the SIM of the electronic device. The SIM may be contained in a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC that is a removably installed in the electronic device. The protocol handlers may include a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP client a transport layer security TLS client a multimedia messaging service MMS client and or other protocol handlers.

The bootstrap aspect of the authentication framework refers to the fact that the authentication framework is capable of bootstrapping i.e. communicating with a bootstrap authentication credential server on a network also referred to as a bootstrap server to negotiate and obtain the authentication credentials. The bootstrap authentication framework may store the authentication credentials in the SIM of the electronic device. In various scenarios the authentication credentials may include a temporary identifier and a shared secret key. In some embodiments the bootstrapping functionality of the bootstrap authentication framework may comply with the Generic Bootstrapping Architecture GBA that is standardized by the 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP .

The bootstrap authentication framework may include an access control function that limits access to its APIs to applications that have valid digital signatures. For example the bootstrap authentication framework may allow an email application with a valid digital signature to use a protocol handler to access the stored authentication credentials through the bootstrap authentication framework. On the other hand the bootstrap authentication framework may block a browser application without a digital signature or with an invalid digital signature from accessing the stored authentication credentials. In this way the bootstrap authentication framework may prevent unauthorized applications from accessing the authentication credentials that are stored in the SIM of the electronic device.

Thus the implementation of the bootstrap authentication framework in an electronic device may enable authorized applications and or protocol handlers on the electronic device to access the authentication credentials stored in the SIM of the electronic device. Otherwise the authentication credentials in the SIM of the electronic device are inaccessible to such applications and or protocol handlers. The applications and or protocol handlers may use the authentication credentials to automatically authenticate to application servers that provide data and or services without requesting user input of user credentials.

The implementation of the bootstrap authentication framework in the electronic device may provide several advantages over traditional techniques such as subscriber profile insertion for the purpose of authentication to application servers. For example unlikely subscriber profile insertion techniques the bootstrap authentication framework may automatically provide stored authentication credentials for authentication even when the electronic device is connected to an application server via a Wi Fi connection.

Furthermore the bootstrap authentication framework may automatically provide the stored authentication credentials to an application server even when an application is engaged in encrypted communication with the application server. In contrast traditional techniques such as subscriber profile insertion are generally incompatible with encrypted communication links.

The environment may include a telecommunication network that is operated by a telecommunication carrier. The telecommunication network may include a base station and a service node . The base station may handles traffic and signals between electronic devices such as the electronic device and the core network of the telecommunication network . For example the base station may perform the transcoding of speech channels allocation of radio channels to electronic device paging transmission and reception of voice and data as well as other functions. The base station may include several base transceiver stations BTS each BTS may include a transceiver antenna and additional network switch and control equipment that provide a network cell for facilitating wireless communication between electronic devices and the core network of the telecommunication network .

The service node may be a part of a core network of the telecommunication network . The core network may be responsible for routing voice communication to other telecommunication networks as well as routing data communication to external packet switched networks such as the Internet. For example the service node may be a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN or another equivalent node. The electronic device may be a smart phone a personal digital assistant a netbook a laptop computer and or another electronic that is capable of sending or receiving voice or data via the telecommunication network and or a Wi Fi network. The application server may be a server that is external to the telecommunication network . For example the application server may be connected to the telecommunication network via one or more external packet switched networks such as the Internet.

In some instances an application on the electronic device may establish data communication with the application server through a data connection to the base station which is then route to the application server through the core network via the service node . In such instances the service node may be capable of performing subscriber profile insertion with respect to data traffic between the application on the electronic device and the application server .

For example the application may be a navigation application that is using a data request to fetch map data from the application server . The application server may be configured to verify profile information prior to providing map data to a requesting application. In such an example the service node may identify the electronic device by a unique identifier of the electronic device such as an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI . In turn the service node may retrieve a profile that corresponds to the IMSI and insert the profile into the data request from the application . Accordingly when the data request with the profile arrives at the application server the application server may verify that the profile corresponds to a valid subscription and subsequently transmit map data back to the application via the telecommunication network .

However in instances in which the application on the electronic device connects to the application server via the Internet the service node may be incapable of performing subscriber profile insertion. In such instances the application may connect to the Internet via Wi Fi access point . Accordingly data traffic from the application may be directly routed to the application server by the gateway of the telecommunication network . As such the service node may not be afforded an opportunity to perform the subscriber profile insertion.

Nevertheless the implementation of the bootstrap authentication framework on the electronic device may enable the application to use authentication credentials stored on the electronic device to authenticate to the application server in these instances. In various embodiments the bootstrap authentication framework may arrange for a set of authentication credentials to be shared between the electronic device and a bootstrap server that implemented within the telecommunication network . For example the bootstrap server may include bootstrap authentication functions that negotiate a shared secret i.e. the authentication credentials with the bootstrap authentication framework . The negotiated authentication credentials may be stored by the bootstrap authentication framework in the SIM of the electronic device and by the bootstrap authentication functions in the bootstrap server .

Subsequently when the application requests data and or service from the application server a protocol handler under direction of the application may use the bootstrap authentication framework to retrieve the authentication credentials from the SIM of the electronic device. Once retrieved the protocol handler on the electronic device may provide the authentication credentials to the application server . The application server may also request a set of authentication credentials that correspond to the electronic device from the bootstrap server . The application server may compare a secret key included in the authentication credentials received from the electronic device with a corresponding secret key included in the authentication credentials received from the bootstrap server . Thus if the two secret keys match the application server may provide the requested data and or service to the application on the electronic device .

The memory may be implemented using computer readable media such as computer storage media. Computer readable media includes at least two types of computer readable media namely computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other non transmission medium that can be used to store information for access by a computing device. In contrast communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission mechanism.

The one or more processors and the memory of the electronic device may implement one or more applications one or more protocol handlers a bootstrap authentication framework as well as other modules that enable the electronic device to perform telephony and data exchange functions. The electronic device may also include a subscriber identity module SIM .

The applications may include applications that provide utility entertainment and or productivity functionalities to a user of the electronic device . In the course of providing these functionalities the applications may transmit and receive data from application servers that are accessible via the telecommunication network and or the Internet . For example the applications may include electronic mail applications remote desktop applications web browser applications navigation applications multimedia streaming applications and or so forth.

The protocol handlers may include clients that are used by the applications to request and receive data from the application servers such as the application server . For example the protocol handlers may include a HTTP client . A navigation application may use the HTTP client may be used to establish a HTTP connection with the application server such that the navigation application may receive map data from the application server . In another example the protocol handlers may be a transport layer security TLS client . A web browser application may use TLS client to establish a TLS connection with the application server so that an encrypted session may be initiated between a program on the application server and the web browser application. Nevertheless the protocol handlers may include other protocol handlers that provide unencrypted or encrypted data connections between application servers and applications on the electronic device e.g. an Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP client a file transfer protocol FTP client secure socket layer SSL and or so forth.

In some embodiments a protocol handler may be an application entity that executes independently from the applications . In such embodiments an application may call such a protocol handler as a service to establish a data communication. However in other embodiments a protocol handler may be a library that is loaded and executed in the same process as the application. In other words an application may have an integrated protocol handler. The protocol handlers may be configured to interact with the bootstrap authentication framework by calling APIs of the bootstrap authentication framework.

The bootstrap authentication framework may include a bootstrap module an access control module and a credential management module . The bootstrap authentication framework may provide APIs that are called by the protocol handlers to perform various functions.

The bootstrap module may negotiate and obtain authentication credentials from the bootstrap server . In various embodiments the bootstrap module and the bootstrap server may mutually authenticate through the use of authentication keys and or digital certificates. The authentication keys and or the digital certificates may be stored in the SIM of the electronic device and known to the bootstrap authentication functions of the bootstrap server . Following mutual authentication the bootstrap authentication functions and the bootstrap module may agree on shared secrets i.e. authentication credentials .

In at least one embodiment the authentication credentials may include a temporary identifier and a shared secret key. The authentication credentials may be configured to expire i.e. become invalid after a predetermined time period has expired. The bootstrap module may store the authentication credentials in the SIM . In some of these embodiments the bootstrapping of the authentication credential performed by the bootstrap module may comply with the Generic Bootstrapping Architecture GBA that is standardized by the 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP .

The access control module may regulate whether the protocol handlers that are employed by the applications have access to the authentication credentials . The access control module may perform such access control based on the digital signatures provided by the protocol handlers . In instances in which a protocol handler is a library that is called by an application the protocol handler may inherit the digital signature of the application. In other words the protocol handler may share the same digital signature as the application. In instances in which a protocol handler is a separate application entity that offers services to the application the protocol handler may have its own digital signature. An application or a protocol handler may have a digital signature that is assigned by an administrator of the bootstrap server . For example a developer of the application or the protocol handler may present the application or the protocol handler to the administrator. In turn the administrator may digitally sign the application or the protocol handler after verifying that the application or the protocol handler complies with one or more criteria mandated by the administrator. For example the administrator may mandate that an application or a protocol handler meet certain design security utility and or fee payment criteria.

In some embodiments the access control module may store the digital signatures of applications or protocol handlers in a data store in the memory . Accordingly the access control module may compare the digital signature of a requesting protocol handler to the stored digital signatures and provide access to the authentication credentials when the digital signature matches one of the stored digital signatures. Otherwise the access control module may deny the requesting protocol handler access to the authentication credentials .

In other embodiments the access control module may determine access to the authentication credentials by comparing the digital signature of an application to digital signatures that are stored on the bootstrap server . In such embodiments the access control module may send the digital signature of a requesting protocol handler to the bootstrap server . In turn the bootstrap server may determined whether the digital signature of the requesting protocol handler matches one of the permitted digital signatures stored in a database. When such a match occurs the bootstrap server may return an indication to the access control module . The indication may cause the access control module to permit the requesting protocol handler to access the authentication credentials . Otherwise the access control module may deny the requesting protocol handler access to the authentication credentials .

Alternatively or concurrently the access control module may determine whether a protocol handler has access to the authentication credentials based on the additional access control settings for the protocol handler as stored by the bootstrap authentication framework . The access control settings for the protocol handler may be set by the developer of the protocol handler or the administrator of the bootstrap server . Thus the access control module may nevertheless deny a protocol handler access to the authentication credentials even if the protocol hander possesses the correct digital signature. In additional embodiments the access control module may determine whether a protocol handler has access to the authentication credentials based on the file location of the protocol handler. For example the access control module may be configured to allow the protocol handler access if the protocol handler is located in a system partition of an operating system installed on the electronic device .

The credential management module may retrieve the authentication credentials from the SIM and provide the authentication credentials to the protocol handlers. The credential management module may perform such functions as directed by the access control module . The SIM may store the authentication credentials . In various embodiments the SIM may be contained in a UICC that is removably installed on the electronic device . Accordingly the electronic device may be provided with different SIMs over its operational lifetime.

While the bootstrap authentication framework may be used in the context of the application communicating with the application server via the Internet the bootstrap authentication framework may be adapted for use in instances in which the data communication between the application and the application server is established through the base station and the service node of the core network. In such instances the core network may facilitate access to the bootstrap authentication functions on the bootstrap server by the bootstrap authentication framework .

The electronic device may include other modules and components that are typically associated with a mobile computer device such as software and hardware that enables the electronic device to receive process and output signals. These signals may include touch signals optical signals motion sensing signals electrical signals audio signals video signals etc. Accordingly the modules and components of the electronic device may enable the electronic device to perform various functions. These functions may include telephony functions data processing function data transmission and reception functions and or the like.

The memory may be implemented using computer readable media such as computer storage media. Computer readable media includes at least two types of computer readable media namely computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other non transmission medium that can be used to store information for access by a computing device. In contrast communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission mechanism.

The one or more processors and the memory of the bootstrap server may implement an operating system . The operating system may include components that enable the bootstrap server to receive and transmit data via various inputs e.g. user controls network interfaces and or memory devices as well as process data using the one or more processors to generate output. The operating system may include a presentation component that presents the output e.g. display the data on an electronic display store the data in memory transmit the data to another electronic device etc. . Additionally the operating system may include other components that perform various additional functions generally associated with an operating system. The one or more processors and the memory of the bootstrap server may also implement a bootstrap function module and a revenue module . The memory may also include a data store .

The bootstrap function module may perform the bootstrap authentication functions . The bootstrap authentication functions may include performing mutual authentication with bootstrap authentication frameworks on various electronic devices to obtain share secrets in the form of authentication credentials . For example the bootstrap function module may perform mutual authentication with the bootstrap authentication framework to agree on the authentication credentials . In at least one embodiment the authentication credentials may include a temporary identifier and a shared secret key. The bootstrap function module may store the mutually agree on authentication credentials in the data store .

The bootstrap authentication functions may also include sending the authentication credentials to the application servers such as the application server . For example the application server may send a request that includes a temporary identifier of an electronic device to the bootstrap server . In turn the bootstrap function module may return the secret key associated with the temporary identifier to the application server . In turn the application server may compare the secret key received from the bootstrap server with a secret key that is received from the electronic device. Accordingly the application server may provide data and or service to the electronic device when the two secret keys match.

In some embodiments the bootstrap authentication functions may additionally include sending a user profile that corresponds to a received temporary identifier to the application server e.g. application server . The bootstrap function module may send the user profile such as the user profile along with the corresponding secret key to the application server . In such embodiments the bootstrap function module may retrieve the user profile from a subscriber data server that is part of the telecommunication network . Each user profile may include security settings user preferences demographic information and or the like that are associated with a corresponding user. For example the application server may apply the user profile to determine the amount or level of access to data and or service that is granted to the electronic device corresponding to the temporary identifier.

The revenue module may track the number of times that the secret key and or user profile associated with an electronic device is provided to an application server such as the application server . Further the revenue module may assess a fee for one or more of such occurrences. The fee may be assessed against the service provider that is operating the application server. Alternatively or concurrently the fee may be assessed against the subscriber who is accessing the data or service provided by the application server . In various embodiments the fee may be assessed on a per occurrence basis or on a flat fee basis. In this way the operator of the telecommunication network may realize an additional revenue stream.

The bootstrap function module and the revenue module are illustrated in as being implemented by a dedicated bootstrap server . However at least one of the bootstrap function module and the revenue module may also be implemented by any existing component of the telecommunication network . For example the bootstrap function module may be implemented by a server of the service node .

At step one the application may generate a get content request . For example the application may be a navigation application and the get content request may be request to obtain map data. At step two the HTTP client may pass a support request to the credential management module . The support request may indicate that the HTTP client desires to use bootstrap authentication i.e. SIM based authentication credentials to authenticate to the application server .

At step three the credential management module may send a request that asks the access control module whether the HTTP client has access control to access the SIM based authentication credentials. In turn the access control module may determine the access control status for the HTTP client based on a digital signature that the HTTP client inherited from the application . In some embodiments the access control module may also look at the access control settings for the HTTP client to determine the access control status. At step four assuming that the HTTP client does have access control the access control module may send a response to the credential management module indicating that the HTTP client is able to access the SIM based authentication credentials. In turn at step five the credential management module may return a response to the HTTP client indicating that the HTTP client is supported by the credential management module .

At step six the HTTP client may send a HTTP get request message to a network service . The HTTP get message may include an indicator that the HTTP client is capable of bootstrap authentication i.e. has access to the SIM based authentication credentials. At step seven the application server may return a HTTP challenge message . The HTTP challenge message may be a HTTP 401 error message indicating that access to a network service is not authorized. However the HTTP challenge message may include an indicator that the network service on the application server supports bootstrap authentication. The HTTP client may convey the HTTP challenge message to the bootstrap module of the bootstrap authentication framework .

At step eight the bootstrap module may determine whether valid authentication credentials are already stored in the SIM of the electronic device . The SIM may include valid authentication credentials if the bootstrap module has previously negotiated and agreed on authentication credentials for the electronic device with the bootstrap server and the authentication credentials have not expired. However no valid authentication credentials may be presented in the SIM if the bootstrap module has not previously agreed on valid authentication credentials with the bootstrap server or if the authentication credentials have expired. In the latter case the bootstrap module may negotiate and agree on a new set of authentication credentials with the bootstrap server in a negotiation .

At step nine the credential management module may provide the SIM stored authentication credentials to the HTTP client . The authentication credentials may include a temporary identifier and a shared secret key. In some embodiments the temporary identifier may be a Bootstrap Transaction Identifier B TID and the shared secret key may be a KS int NAF as specified by the GBA.

At step ten the HTTP client may return a challenge response to the network service on the application server that is responsive to the HTTP challenge message . The challenge response may include the authentication credentials. At step eleven the network service may send a credential request to the bootstrap server . The credential request may ask that the bootstrap function module on the bootstrap server provide the shared secret key that corresponds to the temporary identifier. In at least some embodiments the credential request may also ask the bootstrap function module for a user profile that corresponds to the temporary identifier.

At step twelve the bootstrap server may return the shared key and or the user profile to the network service in a credential return . The network service may determine whether the secret key that was received from the bootstrap server for the temporary password matches the secret key that the bootstrap server received from the HTTP client in the challenge response .

At step thirteen assuming that the two secret keys match the network service may send a service response to the HTTP client . The service response may include data and or service that are provided to the application . In at least some embodiments the nature of the data and or service that is provided may be dependent on the user profile that is supplied by the bootstrap server . At step fourteen the HTTP client may relay the content that results from the data and or service provided by the network service to the application .

At step one the application may generate a get content request . For example the application may be a navigation application and the get content request may be request to obtain map data. At step two the HTTP client may pass a support request to the credential management module . The support request may indicate that the HTTP client desires to use bootstrap authentication i.e. use SIM based authentication credentials to authenticate to the application server .

At step three the credential management module may send a request that asks the access control module whether the HTTP client has access control to access the SIM based authentication credentials. In turn the access control module may determine the access control status for the HTTP client based on a digital signature of the HTTP client . In some embodiments the access control module may also look at the access control settings for the HTTP client to determine the access control status. At step four assuming that the HTTP client does have access control the access control module may send a response to the credential management module indicating that the HTTP client is able to access the SIM based authentication credentials. The remaining steps of the procedures are similar to their respective counterpart steps in the procedures shown in . Accordingly the details of the steps are as described in their counterparts in .

While the procedures and are discussed with respect to HTTP client the use of bootstrap authentication credentials stored in the SIM of the electronic device to authenticate an application to a network service may be used in conjunction with other protocol handlers. These other protocol handler may be protocol handlers that inherit the digital signature of their calling application or protocol handlers that have their own unique digital signatures. In an example in which the protocol handler is the TLS client the access control module may verify that the TLS client has access to the SIM stored authentication credentials prior to the initiation of a TLS tunnel with the network service . The TLS client may further request SIM stored authentication credentials from the credential management module upon receiving a server hello done message during the establishment of the TLS tunnel. The server hell done message may include an indicator that the network service on the application server supports bootstrap authentication i.e. authentication via the authentication credentials . Subsequently the bootstrap module may negotiate for the authentication credentials from the bootstrap server for storage in the SIM if no valid authentication credentials are available in the SIM . The TLS tunnel may then be established based on the authentication credentials. Other protocol handlers such as IMAP FTP and SSL may also integrate the use of bootstrap authentication access control status checking and the SIM stored authentication credentials in their protocol procedures when establishing encrypted or unencrypted communication links with network services. For example because of such integration the SIM stored authentication credentials may pass through any encrypted communication links as natively encrypted data. Accordingly the protocol procedures and protocol handlers described in are examples rather than limitations.

At block a protocol handler may be provided on the electronic device . The protocol handler may be installed by a corresponding installation program that executes on the electronic device . The protocol handler may be the HTTP client the TLS client or another protocol handler. The protocol handler may access the authentication credentials through the bootstrap authentication framework by calling on APIs provided by the bootstrap authentication framework . In this way the bootstrap authentication framework may function as an extension of the protocol handler.

At block the application may be executed on the electronic device . In instances in which the protocol handler is a library that is integrated with the application the application may be installed by the same installation program as the protocol handler. However in instances in which the protocol handler is an independently executing application that offers services to the application the application may be installed by a corresponding installation program that executes on the electronic device . In various embodiments the application may use the protocol handler to authenticate to an application server so that the application may obtain data or services from the application server . The use of the protocol hander by the application to access the bootstrap authentication framework means that the application may be developed without awareness of the functionalities provided by the bootstrap authentication framework . Thus the development of the application may remain simplified.

At block the bootstrap authentication framework of the electronic device may receive an access request from a protocol handler that is initiated by the application on the electronic device . The protocol handler may be the HTTP client the TLS client or another protocol handler.

At block the bootstrap authentication framework may determine whether the application is allowed to access SIM stored authentication credentials in the electronic device . The bootstrap authentication framework may make the determination based on a comparison of a digital signature that the protocol handler inherited from the application to authorized digital signatures that are stored in the electronic device or on the bootstrap server . Accordingly the bootstrap authentication framework may allow the protocol handler to access the authentication credentials when the digital signature provided by the protocol handler matches one of the authorized digital signatures. Otherwise the protocol handler may be denied access.

Accordingly at decision block if the bootstrap authentication framework determines that the protocol handler is allowed access to authentication credentials stored in the SIM yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the bootstrap authentication framework may return an indication to the protocol handler that the application is allowed to access the SIM stored authentication credentials.

At block the bootstrap authentication framework may receive a request from the protocol handler to use the bootstrap authentication framework to obtain access to the SIM stored authentication credentials. In various embodiments the protocol handler may make such a request as the protocol handler attempts to access data or services that are stored in the application server .

At decision block the bootstrap authentication framework may determine whether the authentication credentials are available from the SIM of the electronic device . The bootstrap authentication framework may consider the authentication credentials available when the non expired authentication credentials are present in the SIM . Thus if the bootstrap authentication framework determines that the authentication credentials are not available no at decision block the process may proceed to block .

At block the bootstrap authentication framework may negotiate for the authenticate credentials with the bootstrap server for storage in the SIM of the electronic device . The negotiation may include the bootstrap authentication framework and the bootstrap server mutually authenticating through the use of authentication keys and or digital certificates that are stored in the SIM of the electronic device and known to the bootstrap authentication functions of the bootstrap server . Subsequently the bootstrap authentication functions and the bootstrap module may agree on shared secrets i.e. the authentication credentials. The authentication credentials may be the authentication credentials that are stored in the SIM of the electronic device .

At block the bootstrap authentication framework may provide the protocol handler with the authentication credentials from the SIM of the electronic device . In various embodiments the protocol handler may use the authentication credentials to authenticate the application on the electronic device to the application server .

Returning to decision block if the bootstrap authentication framework determines that the authentication credentials are available from the SIM of the electronic device yes at decision block the process may proceed directly to block .

Returning to decision block if the bootstrap authentication framework determines that the protocol handler is not allowed access to any authentication credentials stored in the SIM no at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the bootstrap authentication framework may deny the protocol handler access control to access the SIM stored authentication credentials.

At block the bootstrap authentication framework of the electronic device may receive an access request from a protocol handler that is initiated by the application on the electronic device . The protocol handler may be the HTTP client the TLS client or another protocol handler.

At block the bootstrap authentication framework may determine whether the protocol handler is allowed to access SIM stored authentication credentials in the electronic device . The bootstrap authentication framework may make the determination based on a comparison of a digital signature that is unique to the protocol handler and authorized digital signatures that are stored in the electronic device or on the bootstrap server . Accordingly the bootstrap authentication framework may allow the protocol handler to access the authentication credentials when the digital signature unique to the protocol handler matches one of the authorized digital signatures. Otherwise the protocol handler may be denied access.

Accordingly at decision block if the bootstrap authentication framework determines that the protocol handler is allowed access to the authentication credentials stored in the SIM yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the bootstrap authentication framework may return an indication to the protocol handler that the protocol handler is allowed to access the SIM stored authentication credentials.

At block the bootstrap authentication framework may receive a request from the protocol handler to use the bootstrap authentication framework to obtain access to the SIM stored authentication credentials. In various embodiments the protocol handler may make such a request as the protocol handler attempts to access data or services that are stored in the application server .

At decision block the bootstrap authentication framework may determine whether the authentication credentials are available from the SIM of the electronic device . The bootstrap authentication framework may consider the authentication credentials available when the non expired authentication credentials are present in the SIM . Thus if the bootstrap authentication framework determines that the authentication credentials are not available no at decision block the process may proceed to block .

At block the bootstrap authentication framework may negotiate for authenticate credentials with the bootstrap server for storage in the SIM of the electronic device . The negotiation may include the bootstrap authentication framework and the bootstrap server mutually authenticating through the use of authentication keys and or digital certificates that are stored in the SIM of the electronic device and known to the bootstrap authentication functions of the bootstrap server . Subsequently the bootstrap authentication functions and the bootstrap module may agree on shared secrets i.e. the authentication credentials. The authentication credentials may be the authentication credentials that are stored in the SIM of the electronic device .

At block the bootstrap authentication framework may provide the protocol handler with the authentication credentials from the SIM of the electronic device . In various embodiments the protocol handler may use the authentication credentials to authenticate the application on the electronic device to the application server .

Returning to decision block if the bootstrap authentication framework determines that the authentication credentials are available from the SIM of the electronic device yes at decision block the process may proceed directly to block .

Returning to decision block if the bootstrap authentication framework determines that the protocol handler is not allowed access to any authentication credentials stored in the SIM no at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the bootstrap authentication framework may deny the protocol handler access control to access the SIM stored authentication credentials.

The implementation of the bootstrap authentication framework in the electronic device may provide several advantages over traditional techniques such as subscriber profile insertion for the purpose of authentication to application servers. For example unlikely subscriber profile insertion techniques the bootstrap authentication framework may automatically provide stored authentication credentials for authentication even when the electronic device is connected to an application server via a Wi Fi connection.

Furthermore the bootstrap authentication framework may automatically provide the stored authentication credentials to an application server even when an application is engaged in encrypted communication with the application server. In contrast traditional techniques such as subscriber profile insertion are generally incompatible with encrypted communication links.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims.

