---

title: Adaptive media content scrubbing on a remote device
abstract: A method includes presenting media content on a mobile device; receiving a command during the presenting to change the destination of presentation from the mobile device to a display device associated with a media client; and providing a first portion of the media content stored on the mobile device to the media client for presentation on the display device in communication with the media client. Providing the first portion of the media content includes providing a portion of the media content associated with a time in the media content when the command to change the destination was received.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071792&OS=09071792&RS=09071792
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09071792
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 895 694 entitled Adaptive Media Content Scrubbing on a Remote Device filed on Sep. 30 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 378 904 filed on Aug. 31 2010 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates to presenting items of media content on a display device remotely from a mobile media device.

As media devices and online providers of media content have become more prevalent the choices of media types and selection of particular media items have grown considerably and will continue to do so. Manufacturers of media devices strive to present this vast array of available media choices to a viewer in a meaningful way. Media content can be presented on a mobile device such as cell phone PDA a tablet computer and the like. Media content can also be presented on a TV or a home theater system using a media device such as a digital media receiver or digital media adapter. Such a media device can connect to a network to download digital media files and play them on a home theater system or TV.

This disclosure describes systems and techniques for controlling from a mobile device media content stored on the mobile device to a media client for presentation on a display device coupled to or integrated with the media client such as a television. The media content can be stored on the mobile device and presented to a user on the mobile device. A separate media device such as media client coupled with the display device can be identified by the mobile device. The media client can be linked to the mobile device over a communications link such as over a local area network LAN or over a wireless peer to peer communications link. The user can switch the destination of the presentation of the media content from the mobile device to the display device coupled to the media client. For example the user can click on a list of destinations on the mobile device and select a destination associated with the media client which switches the presentation of the media content from the mobile device to the display device. The media content can be provided from the mobile device to the media client for presentation on the display device. Also playback of the media content on the display device can be controlled from the mobile device.

When the destination of the media content is changed from the mobile device to the media client the mobile device can stop decoding and decrypting if the media content is encrypted the media content. A portion of the media content starting from the location where mobile device left off when the destination was received can be provided to the media client in encoded and encrypted form. The media client can decode and decrypt the media content and present the media content on the display device.

To provide the media content to the media client the mobile device can transmit data e.g. a URL to the media client that includes an address e.g. an Internet Protocol IP address of the mobile device an asset identifier ID of the media content stored on the mobile device and a playtime where the media device should begin presenting the media content. Based on the data the media client can prepare and send a request e.g. an HTTP request to the mobile device for a portion of the presentation e.g. packets of information . Upon receiving the request the mobile device transmits the requested portion of the presentation. The media client can continue to transmit requests and buffer media content so that the media content can be seamlessly presented on the display device.

The mobile device from which the media content is sent can also control the presentation of the media content by the media client. For example a user can scrub the presentation of the media content using a control provided by the mobile device. To do so the mobile device can monitor the status of the presentation of the media content by the media client so that when a scrubbing request is received the mobile device can scrub from the correct location. While the user is scrubbing the media content at the mobile device the mobile device can decode and decrypt frames e.g. key frames of the media content associated with the scrubbing for display on the mobile device. Once a new location in the media content is determined based on the scrubbing input a new data can be transmitted to the media client with information for the media client to request media content associated with the new location. In some examples as the scrubbing input is received commands can be transmitted to the media client to obtain and display frames from the mobile device associated with the scrubbing and present those frames as the scrubbing input is received e.g. real time scrubbing .

Details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and potential advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Mobile device can also control the media presentation of the media content from mobile device or from the media client. For example during the presentation of the media content on the display device coupled with the media client mobile device can monitor the status of the presentation of the media content. When a user decides to scrub e.g. fast forward or rewind the media content on the display device the user can provide scrubbing input on mobile device and can view the media content being scrubbed on mobile device . Upon selecting a new portion in the presentation the presentation of the media content from the new portion at the display device can resume.

In some implementations mobile device can be a portable computer electronic tablet electronic book reader cellular phone PDA gaming device or any other mobile device that can present media content. In some implementations mobile device can include a touch sensitive display or surface e.g. surface that is responsive to touch input or gestures by one or more fingers or another source of input e.g. a stylus. Audio can be presented for example through a loudspeaker integrated in or coupled to mobile device or through a pair of headphones coupled to a headphone jack of mobile device .

In the example shown in frame of a media presentation of media content is displayed on touch sensitive surface of mobile device . The user interface of mobile device includes controls controls and control for controlling the media presentation. Controls include a slider for adjusting the volume of the presentation forward button for advancing to a next scene and back button for navigating to a previous scene. Button can be used to display a list of scenes that can be navigated by the user. Controls also include a play pause button for playing and pausing the media presentation. Control includes slider that when moved to the right advances the current media presentation and when moved to the left scans backward through the media presentation. As the user scrubs through the media presentation using controls and or frames associated with the scrubbing input are presented in the user interface. As a user plays or scrubs through the media presentation the time elapsed is shown at time indicator and the time remaining is shown at time indicator . The user interface also includes done button . Upon selection of the done button the media presentation terminates. In some examples accessories connected with the mobile device can be used to control playback e.g. via a speaker dock a headset button a Bluetooth remote control etc. . Also other applications loaded onto mobile device can be used to control playback such as third party video players voice control applications etc. .

The user interface also includes destinations button . As shown in upon selection of destinations button destinations pane is displayed. Destinations pane includes additional controls for controlling the physical location for presenting the media presentation stored on mobile device . In the example shown mobile device has detected two destinations where the media presentation can be presented. A user can touch first destination button for presenting the media presentation which is stored on mobile device on a living room TV. Also user can touch second destination button for presenting the media presentation on a master bedroom TV. When a user selects one or more of the destinations the media presentation can be provided to those one or more destinations from mobile device for media presentation. Presentation of the media presentation on the selected destination can resume from frame i.e. the frame being displayed when the destination was selected.

Media client can be coupled to mobile device through a direct wireless connection such as a peer to peer connection or through a network such as a local area network. Mobile device can communicate with media client through network via a wireless communications link. As such media client can obtain media content from mobile device such as media content stored on memory on the mobile device . Memory can include removable memory connected to the mobile device such as a USB drive an SD card or the like. Media client can also receive control commands from mobile device for controlling presentation of the media content on display device .

When mobile device enters into communication with network e.g. by coming within wireless range of network or upon being powered on etc. and or comes within communication range of wireless connection mobile device can present an indication that one or more potential destinations are available for presenting media content. This indication can be in the form of displaying destination button . As shown in connection with a user can select an available destination or multiple destinations such as display device for presenting media content from mobile device . Upon selection of display device as a destination media content can be provided from mobile device to media client for presentation on display device .

In some examples a list of audio destinations can be presented in destinations pane on mobile device with a list of video destinations. A user can mix one or more of the audio destinations with one or more of the video destinations. Example audio destinations include an audio device coupled with media client audio devices connected to the network e.g. audio accessories connected via an Airport Express a mobile audio device connected wirelessly to media client or to mobile device e.g. via Bluetooth the mobile device itself etc. Also media content such as a media presentation provided to one or more audio destinations and to one or more video destinations can be synchronized to play the same media content at the same due e.g. to account for latency . Also mobile device can display destinations based on the type of the media content. For example audio capable destinations can be presented for audio content and video capable destinations can be presented for video content.

In some examples a user can use touch input and or gestures in the user interface of mobile device to select one or more destinations. For example the user can push flick and or throw media content currently playing on mobile device or content for presentation towards another a graphical representation of a destination in order to start playing the media content on that destination. To return playback to mobile device the user could use another touch input or gesture such as pulling or dragging to move the media back onto mobile device . For multiple destinations the user interface of mobile device could show graphical representations of each destination during the touch input or gesture to allow the user to choose which destination s should be used.

In some examples the presentation of the media content can be shown simultaneously from both mobile device and display device . In some examples the presentation of the media content can be switched between being played on mobile device and display device . Mobile device can monitor the progress of the presentation on display device by obtaining updates from media client . This allows mobile device to stop displaying the presentation while the presentation is playing on display device . This facilitates battery preservation in mobile device and allows mobile device to resume the presentation being presented on display device from the proper location upon demand.

For example when a user wants to scrub the presentation being presented on display device the user can interact with the user interface on the touch sensitive surface . If the presentation is not being shown on mobile device e.g. being presented only on one or more destinations such as display device mobile device can begin to show the presentation upon being touched. The user can use controls and or on mobile device to control the presentation on display device . For example the user can use controls to scrub through the presentation. As the user scrubs frames associated with the scrubbing can be shown on mobile device . Also in some examples the frames associated with the scrubbing can also be displayed at display device . Once a location in the presentation has been selected for playback the presentation can resume at display device from the selected playback location. Also mobile device can stop showing the presentation to preserve power.

Also media client remote can be used to control playback by the media client . A user can use media client remote to navigate through the media content being displayed by media client on display device . When the media client needs to obtain additional media content based on control commands received from media client remote media client can send a request to the mobile device for additional media content. As playback of media content is controlled e.g. navigated paused etc. from media client remote updates can be provided to the mobile device so that playback of audio and or video from mobile device or from any other destination can be synchronized.

In some examples mobile device can store and provide media content to media client that mobile device is not configured to playback. For example display device coupled to media client may be able to playback higher definition content than mobile device media client may have cipher keys that can decrypt more audio formats than mobile device . In such an example mobile device can provide the media content that it is not configured to playback to media client for playback. Also in some example media client can be configured to playback a version of the media content in a format that it is configured to playback e.g. synchronously with the media client .

In some examples mobile device can generate media content for presentation such as media content associated with a video came during game play. For example during game play of a video game on mobile device a user can change or add the destination of the presentation of the video game to the display device . As a result mobile device can encode and or encrypt the media content for the video game as it is generated by mobile device and provide the media content to media client for presentation on the display device .

For example mobile device can transmits data e.g. a URL or URI to the media client that includes an address e.g. an IP address of the mobile device an asset ID of the media content being generated and presented by mobile device . Mobile device can also transmit an indication that the content should be presented on the display device real time as the video game is played. The media client can transmit a request e.g. an HTTP request to mobile device for the media content as it is being generated. Mobile device can encode and or encrypt the dynamically generated media content such as in data packets and provide it to the media client based on the request. The media client can decode and present the dynamically generated media content real time with game play. The presentation at the media client can also be in synchronization with presentation of the media content at mobile device .

During the presentation a control input for controlling the presentation can be received at the mobile device at . For example a pause input can be received at the mobile device. In another example a scrubbing input can be received at the mobile device. At a control command can be provided to the media client for controlling the presentation on the display device based on the received control input. For example if a pause input was received at the mobile device a signal can be transmitted to the media client to pause the presentation. If a scrubbing input was received at the mobile device a command with a new playtime can be transmitted to the media client. If the media client has already obtained data from the mobile device associated with the new playtime it can resume from the new playtime. If the media client has not obtained data associated with the new playtime it can request a data package associated with the new playtime.

At the portion of the media presentation is presented. The media client includes an application for presenting the portion of the media presentation. For example for a video presentation the media client can include a video application for decoding the video and playing the video on the display device. At the media client provides an update to the mobile device of a status of the presentation so the mobile device can track the progress of the playback. At a second command to initiate presentation of the media presentation from a new location is received. For example if the media presentation is scrubbed at the mobile device the mobile device can provide a scrubbing destination to the media client from which presentation of the media presentation is to resume.

At it is determined whether data associated with the new location has already been obtained by the media client. If it has then at the media presentation is presented from the new location at the display device by the media client. If data associated with the new location has not been obtained then at a second portion of the media presentation is obtained from the mobile device. For example the media client can send a request for a portion of the media presentation associated with the new location. And at the presentation is presented at the display device from the new location by the media client.

At the mobile device decodes and can decrypt if the video is encrypted at least a portion of the video stored on the mobile device. The decoding and decrypting can be performed as the video is presented at on a user interface on the mobile device. While the video is being presented a command can be received at by the mobile device to change the destination of the presentation from the mobile device to the media client. At the mobile device stops decoding and presenting the video. At the mobile device transmits data e.g. a URL or URI to the media client. The URL includes an IP address of the mobile device an asset ID of the video stored on the mobile device and a playtime indicating where the media presentation was stopped on the mobile device. The data can also include other data including frame rate of the video.

In some implementations the mobile device can receive a command to initiate presentation of the video on a display device coupled with the media client without the video being currently played on the mobile device. In such an implementation data can be transmitted to the media client with performing steps . The data in such an implementation includes the mobile device an address of the mobile device an asset ID of the video stored on the mobile device and a playtime. The playtime can be the beginning of the video or set by the user such as by scrubbing the video on the mobile device.

At the URL is received by the media client. And at the media client transmits a request for a portion of the video based on the URL. The request is for the portion of the encoded video content starting from the playtime provided in the URL. The request can be in the form of an HTTP request from the media client. The media client can dictate the size of the video portion requested and the frequency at which it requests video etc. At the request for the portion of the video is received by the mobile device. At the mobile device transmits a portion of the video corresponding to the request to the media client. The portion of the video is encoded. In some examples the portion of the video is also encrypted. At the mobile device receives the portion of the encoded video. At the media client decodes the portion of the video. If the portion of the video is encrypted it also decrypts the portion of the video. At the media client presents the decoded video on the display device coupled with the media client. During the presentation of the portion of the video the media client provides updates at to the mobile device regarding the playback of the presentation. Updates can include play state e.g. paused playing rewinding playback time indication of latency for synchronization with the mobile device etc. Also during presentation of the video the media client can buffer the video.

At the media client can determine if a control command has been received from the mobile device. If not the media client can determine a new request at for another portion of the video such as the next segment of video sequentially. Steps can be repeated for continuously obtaining portions of video data buffering the video data and presenting the video until at the media client receives a control command from the mobile device.

As mentioned previously the media client provides updates to the mobile device regarding the presentation on the display device so that the mobile device can track at the status of the presentation. At a scrubbing input is initiated at the mobile device. For example a user can touch a user interface on the mobile device to manipulate a control tool. At the mobile device decodes and decrypts if necessary video frames for scrubbing. The mobile device knows which frames to start decoding based on the tracking performed at . In some example as the user scrubs only key frames associated with the scrubbing can be decoded and decrypted . At as the scrubbing input is received the decoded and decrypted video frames are presented on the mobile device. When a scrubbing destination is received at the scrubbing destination can be transmitted at to the media client such as via a URL.

In some implementations when the scrubbing input is initiated and received one or more control commands can be transmitted to the media client at . In some examples the control command can be to suspend at presentation of the video at the media client until a scrubbing destination is received. While the presentation of the video is suspended the media client can continue to obtain and buffer video content. In some examples the command can be for the media client to present scrubbing on the display device that tracks the scrubbing at the mobile device. In such a case the command can include a URL that identifies the scrubbing frames decoded at the media client can at determine a scrubbing request for video data for presenting frames associated with the scrubbing input. The steps are performed as necessary to obtain dynamically the requested frames from the mobile device as the scrubbing input is received and to present on the display device the requested frames as the scrubbing input is received. In some examples the media client may have already obtained a portion of the video associated with the scrubbing input and can proceed directly to presenting the portion at according to the scrubbing input.

When the scrubbing destination is received the presentation at the mobile device can be stopped at until a new scrubbing input is received. As mentioned above when the scrubbing destination is received at the destination is transmitted to the media client at . At the scrubbing destination is received by the media client. The media client can determine a new request for a portion of the video associated with the scrubbing destination at . The media client can repeat steps for the new request for the portion of the video associated with the scrubbing destination. The media client can continue to request portions of the video e.g. at so that the video can be presented seamlessly until a scrubbing input is received at the mobile device at . Then the video can be scrubbed as discussed in connection with .

Also the complete video content and selected frames such as key frames can be protected differently so that one device can decrypt only the key frames while another device can decrypt the complete content. For example when a mobile device decodes and decrypts video for scrubbing it can decrypt using a first key that decrypts only certain frames such as key frames. When the media client decrypts media content for presentation it can decrypt the media content using a second key that decrypts the complete content. As a result when certain media content is only authorized to be presented in its complete form on a single display device e.g. a rented movie this media content can still be scrubbed and the scrubbing viewed at a different location e.g. on the mobile device by decoding and decrypting only the key frames for the scrubbing using the first key at the mobile device.

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example motion sensor light sensor and proximity sensor can be coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate various orientation lighting and proximity functions. For example in some implementations light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of touch screen . In some implementations motion sensor can be utilized to detect movement of the device. Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape.

Other sensors can also be connected to peripherals interface such as a temperature sensor a biometric sensor a gyroscope or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

For example device can receive positioning information from positioning system . Positioning system in various implementations can be a component internal to device or can be an external component coupled to device e.g. using a wired connection or a wireless connection . In some implementations positioning system can include a GPS receiver and a positioning engine operable to derive positioning information from received GPS satellite signals. In other implementations positioning system can include a compass e.g. a magnetic compass and an accelerometer as well as a positioning engine operable to derive positioning information based on dead reckoning techniques. In still further implementations positioning system can use wireless signals e.g. cellular signals IEEE 802.11 signals to determine location information associated with the device. Other positioning systems are possible.

Broadcast reception functions can be facilitated through one or more radio frequency RF receiver s . An RF receiver can receive for example AM FM broadcasts or satellite broadcasts e.g. XM or Sirius radio broadcast . An RF receiver can also be a TV tuner. In some implementations RF receiver is built into communication subsystems . In other implementations RF receiver is an independent subsystem coupled to device e.g. using a wired connection or a wireless connection . RF receiver can receive simulcasts. In some implementations RF receiver can include a Radio Data System RDS processor which can process broadcast content and simulcast data e.g. RDS data . In some implementations RF receiver can be digitally tuned to receive broadcasts at various frequencies. In addition RF receiver can include a scanning function which tunes up or down and pauses at a next frequency where broadcast content is available.

Camera subsystem and optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more communication subsystems . Communication subsystem s can include one or more wireless communication subsystems and one or more wired communication subsystems. Wireless communication subsystems can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. Wired communication system can include a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or some other wired port connection that can be used to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. The specific design and implementation of communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s or medium s over which device is intended to operate. For example device may include wireless communication subsystems designed to operate over a global system for mobile communications GSM network a GPRS network an enhanced data GSM environment EDGE network 802.x communication networks e.g. WiFi WiMax or 3G networks code division multiple access CDMA networks and a Bluetooth network. Communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices. As another example the communication subsystems can allow the device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP protocol HTTP protocol UDP protocol and any other known protocol. The wireless communication subsystem can be configured to communicate with for example a media client to provide URL information for the media client to obtain media content stored on the mobile device using an HTTP request.

Audio subsystem can be coupled to speaker and one or more microphones . One or more microphones can be used for example to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

I O subsystem can include touch screen controller and or other input controller s . Touch screen controller can be coupled to touch screen . Touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a number of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with touch screen or proximity to touch screen .

Other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of speaker and or microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. Touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations device can include the functionality of an MP3 player.

Memory interface can be coupled to memory . Memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . Memory can store operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. Operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

Memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. Communication instructions can also be used to select an operational mode or communication medium for use by the device based on a geographic location obtained by the GPS Navigation instructions of the device. Memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions e.g. mapping a target location and camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions. Media application instructions facilitate the features and processes as described in reference to . Memory may also store other software instructions not shown such as web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping related processes and functions such as for web based media content such as movies and TV shows. In some implementations media processing instructions are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing related processes and functions and video processing related processes and functions respectively.

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. Memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

Devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other devices or cell phones etc. over wireless network . Likewise devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as a Bluetooth communication device. Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

Devices or can for example communicate with one or more services over one or more wired and or wireless networks . These services can include for example mobile services and content store . Mobile services provide various services for mobile devices such as storage syncing an electronic store for downloading electronic media such a video content or any other desired service. Content store provides a web application for providing devices and or with media content such as video downloads for purchase and or rent.

Device or can also access other data and content over one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching for example a Web object.

Media client also includes storage device that can be configured to store information including media configuration data user preferences and operating instructions. Storage device can be any type of non volatile storage including a hard disk device or a solid state drive. For example media received from mobile device can be stored on storage device . The received media thus can be locally accessed and processed such as decoded and decrypted for presentation. Further configuration information such as the resolution of the display device coupled with the media client can be stored on storage device . Additionally storage device can include one or more sets of operating instructions that can be executed by processor to control operation of media client . Storage device can also include program code for one or more programs configured to present media content obtained from mobile device. Examples of programs include a video player a program for presenting a slide show e.g. music and photographs etc. In an implementation storage device further can be divided into a plurality of partitions wherein each partition can be utilized to store one or more types of information. Additionally each partition can have one or more access control provisions.

Communication bus couples the processor to the other components and interfaces included in media client . Communication bus can be configured to permit unidirectional and or bidirectional communication between the components and interfaces. For example processor can retrieve information from and transmit information to storage device over communication bus . In an implementation communication bus can be comprised of a plurality of busses each of which couples at least one component or interface of media client with another component or interface.

Media client also includes a plurality of input and output interfaces for communicating with other devices including media servers and presentation devices. A wired network interface and a wireless network interface each can be configured to permit the media client to transmit and receive information over a network such as a local area network LAN or the Internet. Wireless network interface can also be configured to permit direct peer to peer communication with mobile device. Additionally input interface can be configured to receive input from another device through a direct connection such as a USB eSATA or an IEEE 1394 connection.

Further output interface can be configured to couple the media client to one or more external devices including a television a monitor an audio receiver and one or more speakers. For example output interface can include one or more of an optical audio interface an RCA connector interface a component video interface and a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI . Output interface also can be configured to provide one signal such as an audio stream to a first device and another signal such as a video stream to a second device. Further non volatile memory such as a read only memory ROM also can be included in the media client . Non volatile memory can be used to store configuration data additional instructions such as one or more operating instructions and values such as one or more flags and counters. In an implementation a random access memory RAM also can be included in media client . The RAM can be used to store media content received in media client such as during playback or while the user has paused playback. Further media content can be stored in the RAM whether or not the media content is stored on storage device .

Additionally media client can include remote control interface that can be configured to receive commands from one or more remote control devices not pictured . Remote control interface can receive the commands through wireless signals such as infrared and radio frequency signals. The received commands can be utilized such as by processor to control media playback or to configure media client . In an implementation media client can be configured to receive commands from a user through a touch screen interface. Media client also can be configured to receive commands through one or more other input devices including a keyboard a keypad a touch pad a voice command system and a mouse.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The features can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on a propagated signal that is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a programmable processor.

The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language e.g. Objective C Java including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors or cores of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

One or more features or steps of the disclosed embodiments can be implemented using an Application Programming Interface API . An API can define on or more parameters that are passed between a calling application and other software code e.g. an operating system library routine function that provides a service that provides data or that performs an operation or a computation.

The API can be implemented as one or more calls in program code that send or receive one or more parameters through a parameter list or other structure based on a call convention defined in an API specification document. A parameter can be a constant a key a data structure an object an object class a variable a data type a pointer an array a list or another call. API calls and parameters can be implemented in any programming language. The programming language can define the vocabulary and calling convention that a programmer will employ to access functions supporting the API.

In some implementations an API call can report to an application the capabilities of a device running the application such as input capability output capability processing capability power capability communications capability etc.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example while the examples described herein discuss providing a media presentation to a media client for presentation on the media client in some examples multiple media presentations or multiple types of media content can be simultaneously provided to the media client for simultaneous presentation. Examples can include providing for presentation a video breaking news and advertisements each of which can be controlled from the mobile device. As yet another example the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

