---

title: Method and apparatus for detecting anomalies within indoor information
abstract: Methods, systems, computer-readable media, and apparatuses for detection of anomalies within indoor map information are presented. In some embodiments, the method includes receiving a digital map. The method may further include identifying one or more anomalies within the digital map using a software-based anomaly detection tool. The method may also include displaying one or more suggested corrections to a user based on the one or more identified anomalies. The method may additionally include correcting the one or more identified anomalies within the digital map.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09164844&OS=09164844&RS=09164844
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 09164844
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130312
---
Aspects of the disclosure relate to error detection in mapping information for location based services.

Location based services have become quite popular recently and are used in contexts such as health entertainment work personal life etc. Indoor location services a subset of location based services provide mapping and directional services indoors e.g. within a structure. Indoor location services typically require accurate map information about the structure in order to provide reliable mapping and directional services. For example accurate map information may be required in order for indoor applications be deployed correctly. Often times the map information is provided by the developer of the indoor application.

However currently in many cases the map information provided may be less than correct or insufficient to correctly enable the indoor location services.

These problems and others may be solved according to various embodiments described herein. Methods systems computer readable media and apparatuses are described that allow for detection of anomalies within indoor map information.

In some embodiments a method includes receiving a digital map. The method may further include identifying one or more anomalies within the digital map using a software based anomaly detection tool. The method may also include displaying one or more suggested corrections to a user based on the one or more identified anomalies. The method may additionally include correcting the one or more identified anomalies within the digital map.

In some embodiments the software based anomaly detection tool identifies the one or more anomalies within the digital map based on detection of one or more points where an indoor area of the digital map leads to an outdoor area of the digital map.

In some embodiments the software based anomaly detection tool identifies the one or more anomalies within the digital map based on one or more unreachable areas within an indoor area of the digital map.

In some embodiments the software based anomaly detection tool identifies the one or more anomalies within the digital map based on overlaying an indoor map of the digital map over an outdoor map of the digital map.

In some embodiments the software based anomaly detection tool identifies the one or more anomalies within the digital map based on using a database of known shapes and using shape matching algorithms to verify correct labeling of the known shapes in the digital map.

In some embodiments the software based anomaly detection tool identifies the one or more anomalies within the digital map based on locating incorrect placement of one or more access points within the digital map.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes a processor and a memory. The memory may include a software development kit SDK configured to receive a digital map. The SDK may further be configured to identify one or more anomalies within the digital map using a software based anomaly detection tool. The SDK may also be configured to display one or more suggested corrections to a user based on the one or more identified anomalies. The SDK may additionally be configured to correct the one or more identified anomalies within the digital map.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes means for receiving a digital map. The apparatus may further include means for identifying one or more anomalies within the digital map using a software based anomaly detection tool. The apparatus may also include means for displaying one or more suggested corrections to a user based on the one or more identified anomalies. The apparatus may additionally include means for correcting the one or more identified anomalies within the digital map.

In some embodiments a computer program product residing on a processor readable medium and comprising processor readable instructions is configured to cause a processor to receive a digital map. The instructions may be further configured to cause the processor to identify one or more anomalies within the digital map using a software based anomaly detection tool. The instructions may also be configured to cause the processor to display one or more suggested corrections to a user based on the one or more identified anomalies. The instructions may additionally be configured to cause the processor to correct the one or more identified anomalies within the digital map.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments or designs.

Aspects of the disclosure provide more convenient intuitive and functional ways of detecting anomalies within indoor map information.

A software based anomaly detection tool may be configured to allow application app developers of an indoor application to upload map information. The tool may analyze the map information and detect anomalies within the map information e.g. missing features unreachable areas scaling issues layer issues and access point placement . The tool may take the application developer through each analysis step and provide recommendations and suggested corrections to the anomalies found within the map information.

Indoor location services may rely heavily on the map information. These maps may provide the basis for data input to positioning engines and a host of other location based services. As a result flaws and anomalies in the map information may greatly affect the positioning engine and also a user s experience with the indoor application e.g. failed routes within the structure . Once the anomalies are identified the software based anomaly detection tool may suggest corrections to the application developer or allow the application developer to self correct.

Several illustrative embodiments will now be described with respect to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. While particular embodiments in which one or more aspects of the disclosure may be implemented are described below other embodiments may be used and various modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure or the spirit of the appended claims.

System includes map generation unit map anomaly detection unit map modification utility metadata management module application library generation unit utility application generation unit and data generation and collection unit . In some embodiments digital map data may be input into system .

Most indoor location services require map information defining the inside of the structure to be effectively used with an indoor application. A user may provide digital map data to the map generation unit . The map generation unit is configured to generate a map of the structure based on the digital map data provided by the user. In some embodiments the system may provide analysis of the digital map data to generate transform low quality digital map data into high quality digital map data appropriate for use with an indoor location application. In some embodiments the user may directly provide the digital map data to the map anomaly detection unit if the digital map data is already in an acceptable format for the system .

The map anomaly detection unit is configured to analyze the map generated by the map generation unit . The map anomaly detection unit may identify any map flaws or anomalies that may inhibit the indoor location application from functioning properly. In some embodiments the map anomaly detection unit receives digital map data directly from the user and analyzes the data accordingly. The map anomaly detection unit may be considered to be a software based anomaly detection unit.

The map modification utility is configured to allow a user to modify the map for use with the indoor location application. Since the digital map data provided by the user may be flawed the map modification utility provides an extensive user interface allowing for changes to the map data enabling fixes to components of the digital map data that enable the indoor application. The modification may be done intelligently. That is the map modification utility may provide the user with hints or shortcuts extracted from the analysis of the digital map data performed by the map anomaly detection unit presenting map flaws or anomalies that may be corrected by the user. Upon making modifications to the map if any the map modification utility may forward the map information back to the map anomaly detection unit for further analysis or system may continue the map generation process. It can be appreciated that the map modification utility may be bypassed if no potential map modifications need to be presented to the user. The map modification utility map receive map data from the map anomaly detection unit .

In some embodiments the map modification utility may allow the user to perform common tasks to modify indoor location specific functions. For example the user may perform a swipe gesture to add a door to the digital map data .

The metadata management module is configured to add additional metadata to the map. Often times a simple map of the structure may not be sufficient to fully enable the user s vision for the indoor application. In many cases the user may desire to add additional metadata to the map for purposes of enabling advanced features for the indoor application. The metadata management module allows the user to augment the map with metadata regarding characteristics of the structure. Some examples of metadata include but are not limited to points of interest POI structure material information lighting information etc.

As an example structure material information may provide assistance in generating positioning data used to achieve an indoor position or may provide assistance in building an efficient wireless local area network Wi Fi model. As another example lighting information may assist the positioning engine in identifying well lit areas of the structure at night. As yet another example POI information may allow a store owner to add shopping item location information to the map. A further example may include restricted zone information allowing the structure owner to designate restricted areas of the map where end users may be prohibited from entering. The metadata management module may receive map data from the map anomaly detection unit .

The application library generation unit is configured to generate a range of applications enabling components from a fully developed application to a basic set of libraries which the user may leverage to build out their indoor application. An example of components of a fully developed application may include but is not limited to user interface position fixes routing etc. An example of basic libraries includes but is not limited to a basic positioning library with an indoor position application programming interface API . It can be appreciated that the application library generation unit may be configured to generate the pieces required for an indoor location application framework. In some embodiments a user may publish this framework to other users for purposes of developing an indoor application for the specific structure. The application library generation unit may receive map data from the metadata management module .

The applications generated by the application library generation unit may provide added value for the user and reduce the time necessary for creating software. Some examples include but are not limited to routing functionality within the structure POI search capability with text and voice 3 D rendering of the map with support for 3 D turn by turn overlays end user input support high level map matching and map changing based on the structure.

The utility application generation unit is configured to generate a debug admin application which may allow the user to collect test and or debug their indoor application. The debug admin application may be a generic application providing tools such as but not limited to access point scanning fingerprinting poor performance area identification and other similar tools used in an indoor location deployment scenario. The debug admin application may allow the user to test the location system of the structure without requiring the user to develop an application in order to do so. The utility application generation unit may receive map data from the metadata management module .

The data generation and collection unit is configured to generate a set of collection APIs which may allow the user to collect location information from end users of the indoor application. The collection APIs may be linked to a predefined back end infrastructure not shown provided by the system or the user. In some embodiments the collected location information may be sent from the data generation and collection unit to the metadata management module as a type of metadata which may be used by the system to generate improved assistance data for the indoor application. The data generation and collection unit may receive map data from the application library generation unit and or the utility application generation unit .

In some embodiments a separate module not shown may exist configured to allow the user access to post deployment improvement of his her indoor application. The module may include the capability to analyze crowd sourced location or structure information and reanalyze the generated positioning metadata in order to improve future location based service performance for the indoor application. The improvements may include updating the indoor map for signal propagation automatically fixing incorrect map features identifying regions of interest within the structure or even identifying security regions within the indoor map.

The developer portal is configured to allow access by a developer user of an indoor application for purposes of uploading indoor digital map data for analysis and generation and appending of assistance data to the indoor map. The developer portal may include the indoor location development kit system . The indoor location development kit system may also be referred to as system of . The user may access the developer portal via the Internet. For example the user may point his her web browser to http dev.qualcomm.com to access the developer portal .

Upon accessing the developer portal the user may upload the digital map data and begin development using the indoor location development kit system . After using the indoor location development kit system using the methods described in the user may generate assistance data for use with his her indoor application. The assistance data and the indoor application may then be uploaded to an application store . In some embodiments the assistance data may be generated after the user uploads various pieces of information other than the digital map data . For example the various pieces of information may include but is not limited to positions of Wi Fi devices or other radio devices used as reference transmitters and or points of interest within the structure.

The application store is configured to provide a marketplace for applications to an end user. The application store may store indoor applications developed by the user . The application store may also store the generated assistance data corresponding to the indoor application. In some embodiments the assistance data may be stored in a server within the developer portal . The server may store indoor positioning assistance data for the application residing within the application store .

An end user may access the application store and download purchase the indoor application created by the user to an end user device . The generated assistance data may also be downloaded to the end user device along with the indoor application. The end user may then use the indoor application along with the generated assistance data on the end user device to view the indoor map for purposes of positioning. In some embodiments the application may include a pointer to the assistance data stored within the server residing within the developer portal. The application may download the assistance data locally from the server.

An example of a missing wall is illustrated in . As shown the missing wall is misleading because it shows that the area of the missing wall is outdoors. This may also be called a map bleed point. A map bleed point includes detection of points where the indoor area bleeds into the outdoor area unintentionally as illustrated in . This tends to happen if for example features on the map are not aligning correctly and gaps are left between walls. The map bleed points may be detected by using a routing grid. The system particularly the map anomaly detection unit may determine which nodes are connected to the outdoors but have characteristics of indoor nodes. The indoor node characteristic can be identified in a variety of ways. One of which uses a star topology collision feature method in which a set number of lines are extended in all directions at different angles from the node in question and if a threshold based number of those lines intersect with map features lines of arcs in the map before reaching the borders of the map it may be classified as an indoor point. Detection may also be made if it is known that a particular map is on a floor other than the first floor. For example a flaw may be detected if exits to the outside from the second floor and above of the structure are detected. In some embodiments map bleed may be detected by selecting a point outside the bounds of the map and running a path finding algorithm from the point to every other point on the map. Points that are not reachable may be classified as indoor points within the map.

Once the missing wall is identified by the map anomaly detection unit the user may be notified of the flaw along with a suggested correction. The user may then use the map modification utility to incorporate the correction. In some embodiments the map modification utility may automatically correct the missing wall without any input from the user. illustrates the indoor map with the correction of the missing wall .

In some embodiments an assumption may be made that any given floor within a structure should be completely encapsulated. That is no scenario should exist where there is a random opening to the outside. This assumption in addition to the star collision feature mentioned above may be used by the map anomaly detection unit to detect flaws in the indoor map . In some embodiments the map anomaly detection unit may be able to detect extra walls that should not be present in the indoor map .

An example of an unreachable area is illustrated in . As shown the unreachable area may not be physically accessed by an end user of the indoor application because it is surrounded by walls and there is no entry way into the unreachable area . The map anomaly detection unit may determine this flaw and allow the user to correct the flaw in the indoor map using the map modification utility .

In some embodiments the map anomaly detection unit may determine the unreachable area flaw by using knowledge of other similar areas within the indoor map which have entry ways. With knowledge of the similar areas the map anomaly detection unit may determine that an entry way for the unreachable area may have inadvertently been left out by the user. In some embodiments the map modification utility may automatically correct the unreachable area . illustrates the indoor map with the correction of the unreachable area .

In some embodiments the map anomaly detection unit may determine the unreachable area flaw by isolating layers of the indoor map . Often times the digital map data provided for the indoor map may include layers for various objects within the structure. For example furniture objects may be defined on their own layer within the indoor map . The map anomaly detection unit may analyze for example the door layer of the indoor map to determine whether a door entry way into a room of the indoor map is missing.

In some embodiments the outdoor satellite map may be used as the frame of reference for the indoor map . The indoor map may be scaled and oriented in reference to the outdoor satellite map . In turn any other maps such as the ones mentioned above may use the indoor map as the frame of reference for scaling and orientation.

An example of mislabeled layers is shown on the indoor map in . The furniture layer is mislabeled as STAIRS the stairway layer is mislabeled as DOOR and the doorway layer is mislabeled as FURNITURE. These mislabeled layers of indoor map may be detected by the map anomaly detection unit . The user may be notified of these flaws and given an option to correct the flaws using the map modification utility . In some embodiments the map modification utility may correct the mislabeled layers automatically without any input from the user.

An example of incorrectly placed APs is shown in . Many of the APs are placed within enclosed areas of the indoor map . Some APs are even placed outside of the structure on indoor map . It is highly likely that these APs may have been inadvertently placed as APs placed within enclosed areas and outside of the structure would likely result in poor performance. As mentioned above map anomaly detection unit may run AP diagnostics on indoor map to determine the unintentional placement of the APs . The map modification utility may automatically correct placement of the APs or the user may provide input for the correction.

In determining whether the placement of the APs was unintentional by the user the map anomaly detection unit may make certain assumptions. These assumptions include but are not limited to that AP placement is incorrect if the AP is placed outside the structure near stairwells within elevator shafts on balconies or in any other uncommon areas within indoor map . AP placement may also be determined to be unintentional if a number of APs are clustered in a particular area within indoor map . Similarly an AP placed in an outlier region of the indoor map may be determined to be unintentional. In some embodiments the map anomaly detection unit may also suggest AP placement in areas of the indoor map where no AP is located nearby likely resulting in coverage issues in that area. These suggestions may be incorporated into indoor map by the user using the map modification utility . In some embodiments potential problem areas with respect to AP placement of indoor map may be highlighted to the user using colors. For example red may indicate no AP coverage and green may indicate solid AP coverage. Colors in between may indicate varying degrees of AP coverage.

In block one or more anomalies within the digital map are identified using a software based anomaly detection tool. The software based anomaly detection tool may be able to identify various anomalies within the digital map including but not limited to missing features unreachable areas scaling issues layer issues and access point placement. For example in the anomaly detection unit may take the received digital map data from the user developer and perform analysis on the map data to determine any anomalies that exist. The map anomaly detection unit may use various methods for determining the anomalies within the map data.

In one example in the map anomaly detection unit may use a star collision feature method in which a set number of lines are extended in all directions from a node in question to detect map bleed points and detect missing features within the map e.g. a missing wall . If a threshold based number of lines intersect with map features prior to reaching the borders of the map they may be classified as an indoor point. Detection of missing features may also be made if it is known with respect to a particular map if the node in question is on a floor other than first floor. If exits are discovered to the outside area of the map on the second floor and above a potential flaw may be identified.

In another example in the map anomaly detection unit may detect unreachable areas within the map. Unreachable areas are areas within the interior of the map which may not be physically accessible by an end user. The unreachable areas within the map may be discovered by overlaying a connectivity graph of the map and determining a set of known reachable points on the map. Any set of points that are not reachable through the connectivity graph starting from the reachable set of points may be considered unreachable. The unreachable areas may be tagged and highlighted by the map anomaly detection unit.

In yet another example in the map anomaly detection unit may be able to detect scaling issues within the map. Since most door frames within standard buildings have incremental fixed sizes door detection may be used to identify an expected scaled size to quickly identify skewed or warped feature sets. By using satellite maps as an auto scaler the indoor map may be overlaid on the satellite map to detect any scaling issues.

In a further example in the map anomaly detection unit may detect mislabeled layers within the map. Mislabeling layers within the map may result in poor performance of the positioning engine. In any given map it may be critical to correctly label features layers of the map. Common objects such as furniture or stair cases may often be mislabeled as wall features etc. These flaws may be detected using shape detection techniques. Specifically by using a database of known shapes and using shape matching algorithms to identify the shapes within the map the shapes labels may be verified.

In an additional example in the map anomaly detection unit may detect flaws with access point placement within the map. Access point placement in a given structure may be a critical component in positioning performance. The map detection anomaly unit may detect unintentional or incorrect placement of access points such as placing an access point off the map or in locations that do not seem logical e.g. areas such as elevators shafts or stair wells . Using an HDOP analysis areas within the map that are identified as possibly performing poorly may be highlighted.

In block one or more suggested corrections are displayed to the user based on the one or more identified anomalies. For example in after identifying any anomalies within the map using the map anomaly detection unit the system may display the identified anomalies to the user via a user interface. The user interface may highlight mark circle box list or otherwise identify the anomalies to the user in any other fashion.

In block the one or more anomalies within the digital map may be corrected. For example in after identifying the anomalies using the map anomaly detection unit the anomalies may be presented to the user and the user may interact with the map modification utility to make any appropriate corrections. The map modification utility may simply point out the flaws in the map or may also provide suggested corrections to the user. In some embodiments the map modification utility may also automatically correct the flaws within the map without any input from the user.

Having described multiple aspects of detecting anomalies within indoor map information an example of a computing system in which various aspects of the disclosure may be implemented will now be described with respect to . According to one or more aspects a computer system as illustrated in may be incorporated as part of a computing device which may implement perform and or execute any and or all of the features methods and or method steps described herein. For example computer system may represent some of the components of a hand held device. A hand held device may be any computing device with an input sensory unit such as a wireless receiver or modem. Examples of a hand held device include but are not limited to video game consoles tablets smart phones televisions and mobile devices or mobile stations. In some embodiments the computer system is configured to implement any of the methods described above. provides a schematic illustration of one embodiment of a computer system that can perform the methods provided by various other embodiments as described herein and or can function as the host computer system a remote kiosk terminal a point of sale device a mobile device a set top box and or a computer device. is meant only to provide a generalized illustration of various components any and or all of which may be utilized as appropriate. therefore broadly illustrates how individual system elements may be implemented in a relatively separated or relatively more integrated manner.

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a camera wireless receivers wireless sensors a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display unit a printer and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more processors may be configured to perform a subset or all of the functions described above with respect to . The processor may comprise a general processor and or and application processor for example.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more non transitory storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data storage including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a Wi Fi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network other computer systems and or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a non transitory working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also can comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. In some embodiments the indoor location development kit system may exist as one of the application programs stored within working memory . Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above for example as described with respect to might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as computer system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

Substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with the disclosure. For example some or all of the procedures of the described methods may be performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein for example methods described with respect to .

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media include without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media include without limitation coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communications subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a non transitory storage device either before or after execution by the processor s . Memory may contain at least one database according to any of the databases and methods described herein. Memory may thus store any of the values discussed in any of the present disclosures including and related descriptions.

The methods described in may be implemented by various blocks in . For example processor may be configured to perform any of the functions of blocks in flowchart . Storage device may be configured to store an intermediate result such as a globally unique attribute or locally unique attribute discussed within any of blocks mentioned herein. Storage device may also contain a database consistent with any of the present disclosures. The memory may similarly be configured to record signals representation of signals or database values necessary to perform any of the functions described in any of the blocks mentioned herein. Results that may need to be stored in a temporary or volatile memory such as RAM may also be included in memory and may include any intermediate result similar to what may be stored in storage device . Input device may be configured to receive wireless signals from satellites and or base stations according to the present disclosures described herein. Output device may be configured to display images print text transmit signals and or output other data according to any of the present disclosures.

The methods systems and devices discussed above are examples. Various embodiments may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance in alternative configurations the methods described may be performed in an order different from that described and or various stages may be added omitted and or combined. Also features described with respect to certain embodiments may be combined in various other embodiments. Different aspects and elements of the embodiments may be combined in a similar manner. Also technology evolves and thus many of the elements are examples that do not limit the scope of the disclosure to those specific examples.

Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments. This description provides example embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the embodiments. Rather the preceding description of the embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing embodiments of the invention. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Also some embodiments were described as processes depicted as flow diagrams or block diagrams. Although each may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process may have additional steps not included in the figure. Furthermore embodiments of the methods may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the associated tasks may be stored in a computer readable medium such as a storage medium. Processors may perform the associated tasks.

Having described several embodiments various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. For example the above elements may merely be a component of a larger system wherein other rules may take precedence over or otherwise modify the application of the invention. Also a number of steps may be undertaken before during or after the above elements are considered. Accordingly the above description does not limit the scope of the disclosure.

Various embodiments have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

