---

title: Paired edge alignment
abstract: Among other things, one or more systems and techniques for scanner alignment sampling are provided. A set of scan region pairs are defined along a periphery of a sampling area associated with a semiconductor wafer. Alignment marks are formed within scan regions of the set of scan region pairs, but are not formed within other regions of the sampling area. In this way, scan region pairs are scanned to determine alignment factors for respective scan region pairs. An alignment for the sampling area, such as layers or masks used to form patterns onto such layers, is determined based upon alignment factors determined for the scan region pairs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646902&OS=09646902&RS=09646902
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09646902
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20130812
---
In semiconductor fabrication one or more masks are used to form patterns onto layers of a semiconductor wafer. In an embodiment of lithography a light sensitive resist coating is formed over one or more layers to which a pattern is to be transferred. The resist coating is patterned by exposing the resist coating to radiation such as light that selectively passes through an intervening mask comprising the pattern. The radiation causes the exposed or unexposed portions of the resist coating to become more or less soluble. A developer is used to remove relatively more soluble areas leaving a patterned resist. The patterned resist can serve as template for an underlying layer that can be selectively etched. Once the underlying layer is treated the patterned resist is removed leaving a treated layer corresponding to the pattern. Masks such as those used in lithography and layers onto which patterns are formed using such masks should align so that devices such as integrated circuit are properly formed within the semiconductor layer and function as intended. In an embodiment if a via within an interconnect layer is misaligned with a first metal structure within a metal one layer and a second metal structure within a metal two layer then the via will not form a conductive path that should have been formed between the first metal structure and the second metal structure. Accordingly alignment marks are used to align masks or layers and overlay marks are used to evaluate accuracy of such alignment.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

One or more systems and techniques for scanner alignment sampling are provided herein. For example one or more scan region pairs are defined along a periphery of a sampling area associated with a semiconductor wafer. The one or more scan region pairs are marked with alignment marks used to determine alignment of layers or masks associated with the semiconductor wafer. That is as opposed to marking the entire sampling area or random portions of the sampling area with alignment marks merely regions along the periphery of the sampling area are marked thus resulting in a reduced sampling set of alignment marks for evaluation during an alignment scan of the semiconductor wafer by a scanner. In an embodiment the one or more scan region pairs correspond to alignment marks within 32 regions out of 70 regions of the sampling area. Obtaining a relatively accurate alignment can result in desirable overlay between layers OVL . Scanning the one or more scan region pairs can reduce OVL residual and improve semiconductor output such as wafers per hour WPH . In this way alignment of layers or masks used to form patterns onto such layers is determined based upon scanning alignment marks within the one or more scan region pairs. In an embodiment the alignment can be used for semiconductor wafers corresponding to 20 nm or smaller nodes.

In embodiment the one or more layers of the semiconductor wafer are aligned at least to an improved degree relative the embodiment . In an embodiment the via 1 structure is aligned with the metal 1 structure and the metal 2 structure . Because the via 1 structure is properly aligned the via 1 structure forms a conductive path between the metal 1 structure and the metal 2 structure . To aid in achieving the alignment illustrated in example alignment marks are used to aligning layers or masks used to form patterns onto such layers of the semiconductor wafer.

A method of scanner alignment sampling is illustrated in . At a sampling area associated with a semiconductor wafer is identified. The sampling area comprises a plurality of regions corresponding to portions of the semiconductor wafer. In an embodiment a region corresponds to one or more patterns or a portion thereof. At a set of scan region pairs are defined along a periphery of the sampling area. In an embodiment a first scan region pair comprises a first scan region corresponding to a first region of the sampling area and comprises a second scan region corresponding to a second region of the sampling area. In an embodiment the first scan region is adjacent to the second scan region. In another embodiment the first scan region and the second scan region are selected as a vertical pairing where the first scan region is vertically aligned with the second scan region. In another embodiment the first scan region and the second scan region are selected as a horizontal pairing where the first scan region is horizontally aligned with the second scan region. Alignment marks are formed within scan regions of the set of scan region pairs. In an embodiment a first alignment mark is formed within the first scan region of the first scan region pair a second alignment mark is formed within the second scan region of the first scan region pair a third alignment mark is formed within a third scan region of a second scan region pair a fourth alignment mark is formed within a fourth scan region of the second scan region pair etc. In an embodiment the alignment marks comprise a similar alignment marking pattern such as a cross pattern a circle pattern or any other shape object pattern that can be identified by a scanner. In an embodiment a layer one alignment mark within a first layer comprises a cross pattern and a layer two alignment mark within a second layer comprises the cross pattern such that the layer one alignment mark and the layer two alignment mark are evaluated against one another to determine an alignment factor for the first layer and the second layer. An amount of overlap between the layer one alignment mark and the layer two alignment mark is used to determine an amount of alignment between the first layer and the second layer. More overlap corresponds to better alignment. In another embodiment one or more alignment marks comprise different alignment marking patterns.

In an embodiment a center non pairing region is defined within the sampling area. The center non pairing region corresponds to regions of the sampling area that are not along the periphery of the sampling area such as regions within a center portion of the semiconductor wafer surrounded by the set of scan region pairs. The center non pairing region is designated as ineligible for inclusion within the set of scan region pairs. That is alignment marks are not formed within regions of the sampling area corresponding to the center non pairing region. In this way a reduced sampling set of regions corresponding to merely the set of scan region pairs and not the center non pairing region are marked with alignment marks for alignment scanning. In an embodiment the sampling area comprises a region count corresponding to a number of regions within the sampling area such as about 70 regions. An alignment count between about 25 to about 75 of the region count is specified. The alignment count corresponds to a number of regions to be paired as scan regions for inclusion within the set of scan region pairs. That is the set of scan region pairs correspond to between about 25 to about 75 of the sampling area.

The sampling area is scanned for alignment marks which are formed within scan regions of the set of scan region pairs. In an embodiment the sampling area is scanned in a row by row manner. A first row scan of a first row starts at a first side such as a left side of the first row and scans from the first side to a second side such as a right side of the first row. After the first row scan a second row scan of a second row starts at the second side of the second row and scans to the first side of the second row. In this way the scan follows a winding path. In an embodiment of scanning a scan region pair of the set of scan region pairs a first scan of the first scan region of the first scan region pair is performed to obtain a first scan result at . The first scan result corresponds to one or more alignment marks formed within the first scan region such as a first alignment mark formed within a first layer corresponding to the first scan region and a second alignment mark formed within a second layer corresponding to the first scan region. In an embodiment a plurality of layers or masks correspond to the first scan region such as a third layer a fourth layer or any other number of layers. The first scan result indicates a degree of alignment between the first layer and the second layer based upon an amount of detected alignment between the first alignment mark and the second alignment mark by the first scan. At a second scan of the second scan region of the first scan region pair is performed to obtain a second scan result. The second scan result corresponds to one or more alignment marks formed within the second scan region such as a third alignment mark formed within the first layer corresponding to the second scan region and a fourth alignment mark formed within the second layer corresponding to the second scan region. In an embodiment a plurality of layers or masks correspond to the first scan region such as a third layer a fourth layer or any other number of layers. The second scan result indicates a degree of alignment between the first layer and the second layer based upon an amount of detected alignment between the third alignment mark and the fourth alignment mark.

In an embodiment the first scan is performed in a first direction and the second scan is performed in a second direction different than the first direction. In an embodiment the first direction is substantially opposite the second direction such as the first direction corresponding to an up scan in a Y direction and the second direction corresponding to a down scan in a Y direction. At a first alignment factor is determined based upon the first scan result and the second scan result. The first alignment factor indicates a degree of alignment or misalignment between one or more layers or masks corresponding to the first scan region and the second scan region of the first scan region pair. In this way alignment factors are determined for respective scan region pairs within the set of scan region pairs. At an alignment for the sampling area is determined based upon the alignment factors determined for the scan region pairs. The alignment corresponds to an overall alignment of layers or masks corresponding to the sampling area. Because the set of scan region pairs along the periphery of the sampling area are marked with alignment marks as opposed to the entire sampling area or a random selection of the sampling area OVL residual is reduced an alignment count of alignment marks is reduced such as a sampling set between about 25 to 75 of the sampling area and wafers per hour WPH are improved. In an embodiment the alignment is determined for about a 20 nm or smaller node.

The alignment detection component is configured to scan the sampling area for alignment marks to determine an alignment for the sampling area such as an alignment associated with one or more layers or masks within the sampling area . In an embodiment the alignment detection component is configured to scan according to a row by row manner such as starting at the first region then the second region and then the remaining regions of the first row to the tenth region . After scanning the first row the alignment detection component starts scanning the second row starting with the eleventh region . In this way the alignment detection component scans the sampling area in row by row manner according to a winding scan path. Because alignment marks are merely formed within the scan region pairs as opposed to the entire sampling area the alignment detection component evaluates a reduced set of alignment marks when determining the alignment . Evaluating alignment marks within the scan region pairs along the periphery of the sampling area provides a comprehensive alignment analysis for the sampling area which can reduce OVL residual increase alignment detection quality and increase wafer per hour WPH .

In an embodiment the alignment detection component scans the first scan region pair as illustrated in example of . The alignment detection component performs a first scan of the first scan region of the first scan region pair to obtain a first scan result. The alignment detection component perform a second scan of the second scan region of the first scan region pair to obtain a second scan result. In an embodiment the first scan is performed in a first direction and the second scan is performed in a second direction different than the first direction. In an embodiment the first direction corresponds to a down scan in a Y direction and the second direction corresponds to an up scan in a Y direction. It is appreciated that various scan patterns are contemplated herein. The alignment detection component determines a first alignment factor based upon the first scan result and the second scan result. The alignment detection component is configured to determine the alignment based upon alignment factors determined by scanning scan region pairs within the sampling area .

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for scanner alignment sampling is provided. The method comprises identifying a sampling area associated with a semiconductor wafer. The sampling area comprises a plurality of regions. A set of scan region pairs along a periphery of the sampling area is defined. Respective scan region pairs within the set of scan region pairs are scanned to determine alignments factors used to determine an alignment for the sampling area. In an embodiment a first scan of a first scan region of a first scan region pair is performed to obtain a first scan result. A second scan of a second scan region of the first scan region pair is performed to obtain a second scan result. A first alignment factor is determined based upon the first scan result and the second scan result. An alignment for the sampling area is determined based upon alignment factors determined for respective scan region pairs.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for scanner alignment sampling is provided. The system comprises an alignment detection component configured to define one or more scan region pairs along a periphery of a sampling area associated with the semiconductor wafer. The one or more scan region pairs are defined for scanning used to determine an alignment for the sampling area. In an embodiment alignment marks are formed within scan regions of the scan region pairs but are not formed in other regions of the sampling area.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for scanner alignment sampling is provided. The method comprises evaluating scan region pairs along a periphery of a sampling area associated with a semiconductor wafer. In an embodiment a first scan of a first scan region of a first scan region pair is performed in a first direction to obtain a first scan result. A second scan of a second scan region of the first scan region pair is performed in a second direction different than the first direction to obtain a second scan result. A first alignment factor is determined based upon the first scan result and the second scan result. An alignment for the sampling area is determined based upon alignment factors determined for respective scan region pairs.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components reside within a process or thread of execution in some embodiments. A component is localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers in some embodiments.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

Device includes communication connection s in some embodiments that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s includes but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s includes a wired connection or a wireless connection in some embodiments. Communication connection s transmits and or receives communication media in some embodiments.

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

Components of computing device are connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device are interconnected by a network. For example memory is comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions are distributed across a network in some embodiments. For example a computing device accessible via a network stores computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device accesses computing device and downloads a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device downloads pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions are executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

It will be appreciated that layers features elements etc. depicted herein are illustrated with particular dimensions relative to one another such as structural dimensions and or orientations for example for purposes of simplicity and ease of understanding and that actual dimensions of the same differ substantially from that illustrated herein in some embodiments.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising . Also unless specified otherwise first second or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first channel and a second channel generally correspond to channel A and channel B or two different or two identical channels or the same channel.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure could have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature can be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

