---

title: Measurement of nodes in coordinated multipoint (CoMP) systems
abstract: Technology for enabling radio resource management (RRM) measurements in coordinated multi-point (CoMP) transmission and reception is disclosed. One method comprises sending, from an evolved node B (eNB) to a user equipment (UE), an information element (IE) containing a list of measurement objects that define configurations of channel state information reference signal (CSI-RS) based RRM measurements. The eNB can analyze the CSI-RS based RRM measurements in a CoMP Resource Management (CRM) Set, wherein each CSI-RS based RRM measurement corresponds to a transmission point in a set of transmission points which may be used for downlink transmissions to the UE. The eNB can select a CoMP Measurement Set based on the CSI-RS based RRM measurements reported by the UE, comprising at least one of the set of transmission points for which fast channel state information (CSI) feedback will be reported to the eNB from the UE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094855&OS=09094855&RS=09094855
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09094855
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130329
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 653 369 filed May 30 2012.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. transmission station and a wireless device. Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM combined with a desired digital modulation scheme via a physical layer. For example the third generation partnership project long term evolution 3GPP LTE standard uses OFDM. In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with a wireless device e.g. mobile device known as a user equipment UE . A downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node station or eNodeB to the wireless device or UE and an uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets are used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes . The macro node can be used for basic coverage and the low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system may use a range of different techniques that enable the dynamic coordination of transmission and reception between a plurality of geographically separated base stations in a network. The CoMP system can coordinate and combine signals from multiple antennas to increase UE performance e.g. by achieving higher and more consistent data rates . In CoMP when a UE is in a cell edge region i.e. the outer region of a cell the UE may receive signals from a plurality of nodes. Thus coordinating the downlink signals from the plurality of nodes to the UE may increase downlink DL performance. In addition the UE may transmit signals to the plurality of nodes in the uplink UL . Since the signal from the UE can be received at the plurality of nodes coordinating the reception between the plurality of nodes may improve UL performance.

The network can be a wireless wide area network WWAN or wireless local area network WLAN based on a selected radio access network RAN technology. The WWAN can be configured to operate based on a cellular networking standard such as IEEE 802.16 standard commonly referred to as WiMAX worldwide interoperability for microwave access and the third generation partnership project 3GPP . Releases of the IEEE 802.16 standard include the IEEE 802.16e 2005 802.16 2009 and 802.16m 2011. Releases of the 3GPP standard include the 3GPP LTE Release 8 in the fourth quarter of 2008 3GPP LTE Advanced Release 10 in the first quarter of 2011 and 3GPP LTE Release 11 in the third quarter of 2012.

Standards such as WiFi or Bluetooth are used to provide wireless local area networks WLAN . WiFi is a common name provided to an Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.11 set of standards for communicating in unlicensed spectrum including the 2.4 3.7 and 5 GHz frequency bands. The set of standards includes the IEEE 802.11a standard released in 1999 for communication in the 5 GHz and 3.7 GHz band the IEEE 802.11b standard also released in 1999 for communication in the 2.4 GHz band the 802.11g standard released in 2003 for communication in the 2.4 GHz range via orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM and or direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS and the 802.11n standard released in 2009 for communication in the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands using multiple input multiple output MIMO .

In addition CoMP may be used to reduce interference from neighboring nodes in both homogeneous networks and HetNets. In the Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system the nodes referred to as cooperating nodes can also be grouped together with other nodes where the nodes from multiple cells can transmit signals to the wireless device and receive signals from the wireless device. The cooperating nodes can be nodes in the homogeneous network or macro nodes and or lower power nodes LPN in the HetNet. Downlink CoMP transmission can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given wireless device UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a wireless device UE in which multiple nodes transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and or dynamic cell selection.

As will be described in further detail below at least four basic scenarios can be used for CoMP operation. CoMP Scenario 4 is a configuration in which a node e.g. an eNB broadcasts the same cell identifier ID to a plurality of other nodes e.g. remote radio heads . The nodes may include macro nodes lower power nodes remote radio heads RRHs and eNBs. For example an eNB may broadcast its own cell ID to a plurality of surrounding nodes thus resulting in all of the surrounding nodes having the same cell ID as the eNB.

In 3GPP cell specific reference signals CRS are generally used to perform radio resource management RRM measurements. For example a UE may report CRS based RRM measurements to the eNB. The eNB may use the CRS based RRM measurements for making various decisions e.g. identifying nodes for handover identifying nodes for carrier aggregation . For example after receiving the CRS based RRM measurements from a plurality of nodes the eNB may select a single node i.e. a transmission point to transmit data to a UE. In CoMP scenario four the plurality of nodes may transmit the same CRS based RRM measurement to the eNB because the nodes all contain the same cell ID. As a result the CRS based RRM measurements may be unreliable in CoMP scenario four because the CRS based RRM measurements may actually be a combination of the CRS based RRM measurements received at the eNB from the plurality of nodes.

In contrast CRS based RRM measurements may be useful in other CoMP scenarios e.g. CoMP scenarios 1 2 and 3 because the plurality of nodes each broadcast a unique cell ID. For example if the CRS based RRM measurement of node has a greater Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI or Reference Signal Received Power RSRP as compared to node then the eNB may determine that node is closer to the UE rather than node . Therefore the eNB can request that node send data to the UE. However when the plurality of nodes contain the same cell ID and therefore transmit the same CRS based RRM measurement to the eNB the CRS based RRM measurement may produce an aggregate measurement of the nodes rather than providing the eNB with the closest node for transmitting data. In other words the eNB would be unable to determine whether node or node is closer to the UE.

In one embodiment the plurality of nodes may use channel state information reference signals CSI RS when performing RRM measurements. In particular the nodes may use CSI RS based RRM measurements in CoMP scenario four. The CSI RS can be configured for each UE. As a result a plurality of nodes e.g. three nodes would receive different CSI RS based RRM measurements from a single UE. For example if a UE sends CSI RS based RRM measurements for nodes and to the eNB the measurements would be accurate even though the nodes broadcast the same cell ID. In other words the CSI RS based RRM measurements sent to the eNB for each node would not be a combination i.e. aggregate of the CSI RS based RRM measurements for nodes and . The nodes and may be remote radio heads associated with the eNB. Thus the eNB would be able to determine which of nodes and are most suitable e.g. the closest for sending data to the UE.

Therefore having the UE perform the RRM measurements based on the CSI RS as opposed to the CRS can be more suitable for CoMP scenario four because the CSI RS does not depend on the cell ID and is configured per UE. In addition CSI RS based RRM measurements can include reference signal received power RSRP measurements as well as reference signal received quality RSRQ measurements. For example the eNB may use the CSI RS based RRM measurements provided by ten nodes to determine among the ten nodes which node is being received with the highest RSRP on the UE.

Downlink DL CoMP transmission can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given mobile communication device UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a mobile communication device UE in which multiple nodes transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and dynamic cell selection. Two methods can be used for joint transmission non coherent transmission which uses soft combining reception of the OFDM signal and coherent transmission which performs precoding between cells for in phase combining at the receiver. By coordinating and combining signals from multiple antennas CoMP allows mobile users to enjoy consistent performance and quality for high bandwidth services whether the mobile user is close to the center of a cell or at the outer edges of the cell.

The CSI RS based RRM measurements can include reference signal received power RSRP measurements and or reference signal received quality RSRQ measurements. The RSRP measurement can provide a measurement of a signal strength of an LTE cell and is the average of the power of all resource elements which carry cell specific reference signals over the entire bandwidth. The RSRQ measurement gives a ratio between the RSRP and the Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI and combines signal strength and interference.

The UE may perform the CSI RS based RRM measurements as designated by the CRM Set and then report the measurements to the eNB . For example the CRM Set may include a set of five nodes e.g. five remote radio heads for which the UE reports CSI RS based RRM measurements to the eNB . Based on the CSI RS based measurements corresponding to each node the eNB may select one or more of the nodes to transmit data to the UE. In other words the eNB may learn that a particular node has a higher RSRP and or RSRQ as compared to the other nodes in the CRM Set and therefore may select that node to communicate with the UE.

The UE may perform the CSI RS based RRM measurements for a plurality of nodes. The measurement s made by the UE can be configured using a CSI RS Config information element IE received from the eNB. The UE can receive the IE from the eNB through radio resource control RRC signaling. The IE can provide the configuration of CSI RS based RRM measurement objects. For example the IE can include the addition removal and or replacement of CSI RS resources. The UE can perform the CSI RS based RRM measurements for the CSI RS resources included in the IE. As a result the IE can effectively identify specific nodes based on the CSI RS resources for which the UE is to perform CSI RS based RRM measurements. The UE can then report the CSI RS based RRM measurements to the eNB.

In one embodiment the eNB may identify nodes in a candidate set in order to determine a most suitable node e.g. a closest node for transmitting data to the UE. The nodes in the candidate set can be measured using measurement techniques other than CSI RS based RRM measurements. The measurements of the nodes in the candidate set can be reported by the UE to the eNB . The measurement techniques can include cell specific reference signal CRS based RRM measurements sounding reference signal SRS measurements and physical uplink control channel PUCCH measurements. The SRS and the PUCCH measurements can be periodically received at the eNB from the UE. Therefore the eNB may use information other than CSI RS based RRM measurements to determine nodes i.e. transmission points that can be used for CoMP. The nodes in the candidate set may be exclusive i.e. different from the nodes in the CRM Set . In addition the nodes in the candidate set may contain one or more nodes from in the CRM Set but the nodes in the candidate set may be measured differently e.g. using CRS or SRS .

In one configuration the eNB may utilize both the CRM Set containing the CSI RS based RRM measurements and the candidate set containing the non CSI RS based RRM measurements in order to determine a CoMP Measurement Set . Based on the measurements received from a UE for nodes included in the CRM Set and the candidate set e.g. measurements indicating that a particular node is closer to a UE or has less interference as compared to other nodes the eNB may select one or more nodes for transmitting data to the UE. The eNB can include the selected nodes for transmitting data to the UE in the CoMP Measurement Set .

The CoMP Measurement Set can be a subset of the CRM Set and or the candidate set . For example the CRM Set and the candidate set may be comprised of ten nodes. Based on the measurements e.g. CSI RS based RRM CRS SRS of the ten nodes received from the UE the eNB may determine that two of the nodes may be ideal for engaging in CoMP e.g. the two nodes may be closest to the UE . In other words the UE may be performing CSI RS based RRM measurements on the ten nodes. Thereafter the eNB may determine that two of the nodes may be ideal for transmitting data to the UE based on CSI RS based RRM measurements reported by the UE. The two CSI RS based RRM measurements may correspond with two nodes that are closer to the UE or have less interference in communicating with the UE. Thus the two nodes can be included in the CoMP Measurement Set .

In general the UE reports the CSI RS based RRM measurements to the eNB so that the eNB can determine which CSI RSs can be involved in CoMP. In other words the UE performs measurements on a set of nearby cells or nodes and sends the measurements to a base station i.e. the eNB . The eNB determines which cells or nodes can be used for the actual transmission of data to the UE based on the received measurements. Thus after receiving the measurements the eNB can initiate or terminate CoMP. In other words the eNB uses the measurements to perform scheduling and resource allocation e.g. determining which nodes are to communicate with the UE .

The UE can periodically report the CSI based RRM measurements to the eNB. Alternatively the UE can communicate the CSI based RRM measurements based upon the occurrence of an event such as event A7 which triggers measurement reporting by the UE to the eNB. The CSI RS based RRM measurements can be periodic or event based measurements. In other words the UE can periodically perform CSI RS based RRM measurements and then report the measurements to the eNB. The UE can transmit reports with the CSI RS based RRM measurements to the eNB upon a validity of a trigger i.e. trigger based reporting . The UE can perform the CSI RS based RRM measurements upon an event occurring e.g. event A7 and then periodically transmit the reports with the CSI RS based RRM measurements to the eNB.

The UE can send fast channel state information CSI feedback to the eNB for the nodes included in the CoMP Measurement Set . In other words the CoMP Measurement Set can be the set of CSI RS measured nodes for which the UE provides actual CSI feedback to the eNB . For example if the UE is measuring five nodes using CSI RSs RRM measurements and the eNB determines that two of the nodes are best for engaging in CoMP the UE can then be instructed to provide fast CSI feedback for the two CSI RS measured nodes to the eNB . Thus the fast CSI feedback can differ from the RRM measurements performed by the UE. The fast CSI feedback for the nodes included in the CoMP Measurement Set can be used by the eNB for scheduling resources. In addition the fast CSI feedback can be periodic or aperiodic fast CSI feedback.

In one embodiment the eNB can reconfigure the nodes for which the UE sends fast CSI feedback back to the eNB . For example the eNB may determine that two nodes i.e. eNB LPN or RRH out of a set of three nodes are measured to be best for sending data to the UE. However as the UE changes position relative to the nodes the link between the nodes and the UE may deteriorate. In other words the increased distance between the two nodes and the UE may reduce the data transfer speed between the two nodes and the UE. Therefore the eNB may determine that additional nodes e.g. the third node can be used to communicate with the UE. The eNB may determine the additional nodes based on the CSI RS based RRM measurements that are sent from the UE on a periodic or triggered event. The CoMP Measurement Set can be dynamically updated at the eNB to include the additional i.e. the closest nodes to the UE. After the CoMP Measurement Set is updated the eNB can send an information element IE to the UE containing a list of measurement objects. The list of measurement objects may include the nodes for which the UE is to send fast CSI feedback to the eNB . Thus the UE sends fast CSI feedback to the eNB for the updated set of nodes in the CoMP Measurement Set .

In one embodiment the UE can report CSI RS based RRM measurements to the eNB after an occurrence of an A7 event. The A7 event that triggers the UE to report the CSI RS based RRM measurements to the eNB can include a positive offset value for a primary CSI RS based RRM measurement or a negative offset value for a primary CSI RS based RRM measurement that has the greatest amplitude in the CRM Set.

In one embodiment the UE can determine that the entering condition of the A7 event is satisfied when Mn Ocn Hys Mp Ocp Off. Furthermore the UE can determine that the leaving condition of the event A7 is satisfied when Mn Ocn Hys

The table may include quantity configuration parameters for the configuration of layer 3 L3 filtering parameters. The parameters may be related to the quantity the UE is measuring on the CSI RS e.g. the RSRP and associated filtering. For layer 3 filtering the parameters can be defined similar to conventional mobility RRM measurements. The parameters may be signaled as part of the quantity configuration. The parameters may include filter Coefficient RSRP and filter Coefficient RSRQ. In addition the measurement identities may be used in a similar manner to other RRM measurements that link measurement objects and the configuration of reporting the RRM measurements.

In order to define the CSI RS resources in the CRM Set as measurement objects the measurement configuration may include parameters related to measurement objects reporting configurations measurement identities and quantity configuration. The measurement objects can include parameters for configuring the CSI RS resources. For example the measurement object parameters may include a CSI RS Index or antennaPortsCount resourceConfig subframeConfig csirsBandwidth . The reporting configurations for CSI based RRM measurement reporting can be either periodic or event driven. In event driven reporting triggers can be configured to control when a report is made from the UE to the eNB. The measurement identities can be used in a manner similar to other RRM measurements that link the measurement objects with their respective report configuration. The quantity configuration corresponds to a quantity the UE is measuring on the CSI RS e.g. RSRP . The quantity configuration can include associated filtering parameters. For example the layer 3 filtering parameters can be defined in a manner similar to conventional mobility RRM measurements.

In 3GPP Releases 8 9 and 10 the measurement objects include CRS based measurement objects in which frequencies in cells are measured. By extending the measurement objects to include the CSI RS measurement object the eNB may receive one or more CSI RS based measurements from a plurality of nodes used in a CoMP system. The plurality of nodes may be included in a cell. Thus the eNB may identify the nodes within the cell to send information to the UE even though the nodes can have the same cell ID in CoMP scenario four.

In general the UE can measure objects and then report the measurements to the eNB. For example the objects can include a set of CSI RSs configured for the UE. The UE can perform CSI RS based RRM measurements for the set of CSI RSs and then report the CSI RS based RRM measurements to the eNB. The Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN can govern the objects that are to be measured by the UE. The E UTRAN may govern the addition modification and or removal of measurement objects e.g. CSI RS resources for which the UE should measure. Thus an eNB included in the E UTRAN can send an information element IE to the UE wherein the IE contains an updated list of measurement objects for the UE to measure. For example MeasObjectToAddModList can be an IE with a list of measurement objects to add or modify.

According to the amended procedure the received measObject e.g. the measurement objects contained in the IE can include the csi RS ToRemoveList. For each csi RS Index included in the csi RS ToRemoveList the UE can remove the entry with the matching CSI RSIndex from the csi RS ToAddModList. In addition the received measObject can include the csi RS ToAddModList. The csi RS ToAddModList can include csi RS Index values. If an entry with the matching csi RS Index exists in the csi RS ToAddModList then the UE can replace the entry with the value received from this csi RS Index. Otherwise the UE can add a new entry for the received csi RS Index to the csi RS ToAddModList.

In one embodiment the operation of selecting at the eNB the CoMP Measurement Set in the method can include using additional measurements that correspond to the set of transmission points to determine the CoMP Measurement Set the additional measurements including at least one of cell specific reference signal CRS based RRM measurements sounding reference signal SRS measurements periodically received from the UE and physical uplink control channel PUCCH measurements periodically received from the UE.

The method can also include sending from the eNB to the UE an IE through RRC signaling containing configuration information to add remove or replace CSI RS resources for which the UE should measure the CSI RS based RRM measurements. The method can also include receiving at the eNB from the UE CSI RS based RRM measurements corresponding to the set of transmission points based on at least one of the following receiving the CSI RS based RRM measurements when an event triggers the CSI RS based RRM measurements to be reported by the UE receiving the CSI RS based RRM measurements periodically reported by the UE and receiving the CSI RS based RRM measurements periodically reported by the UE when an event triggers the CSI RS based RRM measurements to be periodically reported by the UE.

The method can also include receiving the CSI RS based RRM measurements at the eNB from the UE wherein the event comprises an entering condition of Mn Ocn Hys Mp Ocp Off to receive the CSI RS based RRM measurements from the UE and a leaving condition of Mn Ocn Hys

The method can also include defining measurement configuration for CSI RS resources in the CRM Set defining at least one of the following parameters measurement objects reporting configurations measurement identities and quantity configurations. In one embodiment the CRM set in the method includes a channel state information reference signal CSI RS corresponding to the transmission point the transmission point including a remote radio head RRH that is associated with the eNB wherein the RRH has a same cell identifier ID as the eNB in CoMP scenario four.

The method can also include dynamically updating the CoMP Measurement Set at the eNB to include different transmission points based on the CSI RS based RRM measurements that are received from the UE. In one embodiment the CSI RS based RRM measurements in the method include at least one of reference signal received power RSRP measurements and reference signal received quality RSRQ measurements.

In some embodiments the present disclosure can include a user equipment UE enabled to perform channel state information reference signal CSI RS based radio resource management RRM measurements in coordinated multi point CoMP transmission and reception. The UE can have circuitry configured to receive an information element IE through radio resource control RRC signaling at the UE from the eNB wherein the IE contains a list of measurement objects that define configurations of CSI RS based RRM measurements perform CSI RS based RRM measurements at the UE for a set of nodes associated with the list of measurement objects in the IE and transmit the CSI RS based RRM measurements from the UE to an evolved node B eNB for the set of nodes wherein the set of nodes are included in a CoMP Resource Management CRM Set.

In one embodiment the circuitry of the UE can be configured to receive at the UE from the eNB a CoMP Measurement Set based on the CSI RS based RRM measurements reported by the UE wherein the CoMP Measurement Set includes at least one of the set of nodes and transmit to the eNB fast channel state information CSI feedback information for the nodes included in the CoMP Measurement Set. In one embodiment the circuitry of the UE can be configured to receive at the UE from the eNB an IE through RRC signaling containing configuration information to add remove or replace CSI RS resources for which the UE should measure the CSI RS based RRM measurements.

In one embodiment the circuitry of the UE can be configured to report to the eNB a measured quantity of a CSI RS resource an index of the CSI RS resource in the CRM Set for which the CSI RS based RRM measurement is provided and a reference CSI RS resource in the CRM Set. In some embodiments the circuitry of the UE can be configured to periodically report the CSI RS based RRM measurements by the UE to the eNB for the nodes included in the CoMP Measurement Set. In addition the circuitry of the UE can be configured to report the CSI RS based RRM measurements for the nodes included in the CoMP Measurement Set when an event triggers the CSI RS based RRM measurements to be reported by the UE to the eNB. In some embodiments the event that triggers the UE to report the CSI RS based RRM measurements to the eNB includes at least one of a positive offset value for a primary CSI RS based RRM measurement and a negative offset value for a primary CSI RS based RRM measurement that has a greatest amplitude in the CRM Set.

In one embodiment the circuitry of the UE can be configured to report the CSI RS based RRM measurements to the eNB wherein the event comprises an entering condition of Mn Ocn Hys Mp Ocp Off to receive the CSI RS based RRM measurements from the UE and a leaving condition of Mn Ocn Hys

In some embodiments the present disclosure can include at least one computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon for enabling radio resource management RRM measurements for coordinated multi point CoMP transmission and reception the instructions when executed on a machine cause the machine to send from an evolved node B eNB to a user equipment UE an information element IE through radio resource control RRC signaling the IE containing a list of measurement objects that define configurations of channel state information reference signal CSI RS based RRM measurements receive at the eNB one or more CSI RS based RRM measurements reported by the UE and in accordance with the list of measurement objects included in the IE sent to the UE wherein the one or more CSI RS based RRM measurements are included in a CoMP Resource Management CRM Set and correspond with a set of transmission points used for performing downlink transmissions to the UE and determine at the eNB a CoMP Measurement Set based on the CSI RS based RRM measurements reported by the UE comprising at least one of the set of transmission points for which fast channel state information CSI feedback will be reported to the eNB from the UE.

In one embodiment the computer readable medium can be configured to use additional measurements corresponding to the set of transmission points to determine the CoMP Measurement Set the additional measurements including at least one of cell specific reference signal CRS based RRM measurements sounding reference signal SRS measurements periodically received from the UE and physical uplink control channel PUCCH measurements periodically received from the UE.

In one embodiment the computer readable medium can be configured to send from the eNB to the UE an IE through RRC signaling containing configuration information to add remove or replace CSI RS resources for which the UE should measure the CSI RS based RRM measurements. In some examples the computer readable medium can be configured to receive at the eNB from the UE CSI RS based RRM measurements corresponding to the set of transmission points when an event triggers the CSI RS based RRM measurements to be reported to the eNB.

In one embodiment the computer readable medium can be configured to receive at the eNB from the UE periodic CSI RS based RRM measurements corresponding to the set of transmission points when an event triggers the CSI RS based RRM measurements to be periodically reported to the eNB. In some examples the event comprises an entering condition of Mn Ocn Hys Mp Ocp Off to receive the CSI RS based RRM measurements from the UE and a leaving condition of Mn Ocn Hys

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

