---

title: Bone plate for elastic osteosynthesis
abstract: Embodiments provide a method and device for plate osteosynthesis of a bone fracture that allows angle-stable fixation of the bone fracture, while permitting elastic axial motion at the fracture site in a controlled, symmetric manner to stimulate fracture healing. Embodiments pertain to a bone plate having an outer surface and a bone-facing surface. The bone plate incorporating internal sliding elements containing a threaded receiving hole for bone screws that have a correspondingly threaded screw head. The sliding elements undergo controlled displacement parallel to the longitudinal axis of the plate but are substantially constrained against displacement perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the plate. The bone screws with threaded heads may be rigidly fixed to the threaded receiving holes in the sliding elements without compressing the bone plate onto the bone surface. Sliding elements are elastically suspended inside the bone plate and undergo dynamic motion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09295508&OS=09295508&RS=09295508
owner: ZIMMER, INC.
number: 09295508
owner_city: Warsaw
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130131
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional application 61 594 560 filed on Feb. 3 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under AR061201 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments herein relate generally to devices for fixation of a fractured bone. Specifically the disclosure relates to a bone plate that provides elastic fixation of a fracture. Such elastic fixation enables small motion at the fracture site to promote natural fracture healing by formation of a fracture callus.

Osteosynthesis plates for stabilization of bone fractures typically are applied with bone screws. Traditionally bone screws compress a plate onto the bone surface to provide stable fixation. More recently locking plates have been introduced which typically have threaded receiving holes for positive angle stable fixation of locking screws that have a correspondingly threaded screw head. These locked plating constructs can provide more durable fixation than traditional non locked constructs particularly in weak osteoporotic bone.

However the inherent stiffness of locked plating constructs causes two clinical challenges. First it may alter the load distribution in bone which may either cause bone resorption in load shielded regions adjacent to the plate or bone fracture due to implant induced stress risers. Second the high stiffness of an osteosynthesis plate construct suppresses relative displacement between bone fragments however such interfragmentary motion is important to promote the natural cascade of fracture healing by callus formation. Therefore overly stiff locking plate constructs may delay or prevent fracture healing which may also lead to implant breakage or loss of screw fixation in the bone.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

The description may use perspective based descriptions such as up down back front and top bottom. Such descriptions are merely used to facilitate the discussion and are not intended to restrict the application of disclosed embodiments.

The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still cooperate or interact with each other.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the terms embodiment or embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments are synonymous and are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

With respect to the use of any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

In various embodiments methods apparatuses and systems for elastic fixation of a fracture are provided.

Embodiments herein provide an osteosynthesis plate that allows for stable fixation of a bone fracture while permitting elastic dynamic motion along the longitudinal axis of the bone plate while maintaining stability in all other directions at the fracture site to stimulate fracture healing by callus formation.

Sliding element is retained inside plate by a bottom cover which is rigidly connected by laser welding press fit or comparably reliable bonding means to plate after insertion of the sliding element. Therefore sliding element is constrained within bone plate to prevent slider motion perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of bone plate . The sliding element may be coupled to a bone member with a locking bone screw which may be a screw that has a threaded screw shaft and a threaded screw head See . One preferred locking screw has the same thread outer diameter and thread pitch at the screw head and screw shaft . While screw head and screw shaft have the same pitch i.e. slope of the revolving helix screw shaft has a single helix and screw head has three helices that simultaneously revolve around the core diameter. This arrangement allows for a larger core diameter in screw head compared to screw shaft making the thread appear denser. This arrangement also has the advantage that the screw shaft is engaged in the threaded hole of sliding element throughout screw insertion. It therefore provides a means to rigidly connect sliding element to bone member at a given elevation over the bone surface without having to compress the sliding element or bone plate against the bone surface. It furthermore prevents screw head from being compressed against sliding element rather than engage into sliding element . Positive locking of the bone screw in sliding element is provided by end cap of the screw head which is compressed against the upper surface of sliding element .

Elastic coupling of a bone plate to a bone by means of elastically suspended sliding elements may be applied to one or more bone segments of a fractured bone while other bone segments may be fixed to the same bone plate using standard bone fasteners such as non locking or locking screws.

In an embodiment there is provided a bone plate having an outer surface and a bone facing surface the bone plate comprising internal sliding elements wherein each sliding element contains a threaded receiving hole for bone screws or pegs that have a correspondingly threaded screw head. The sliding elements undergo controlled displacement parallel to the longitudinal axis of the plate but are substantially constrained against displacement perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the plate. The bone screws with threaded heads can be rigidly fixed to the threaded receiving holes in the sliding elements without compressing the bone plate onto the bone surface. Therefore a bone segment can be securely fixed to the bone plate while retaining the ability for controlled displacement parallel to the long axis of the bone plate. The amount of displacement is controlled by the motion envelope of the sliding elements within the bone plate.

The sliding element is generally bar shaped and of rectangular cross section. In other embodiments other cross sectional shapes may be used such as square oval curved or a curved rectangle that approximates the cross sectional shape of the plate. The sliding element just needs to be sized and shaped to fit into the recess of the plate and sized to allow the desired amount of motion. The sliding element is comprised of any medically acceptable material such as but not limited to a metal like titanium or stainless steel.

The sliding elements may be elastically suspended in the plate by means of a spring element that determines the amount of translation of the sliding element relative to the plate in response to a load acting in a longitudinal direction of the plate. This elastic suspension enables dynamic motion between adjacent bone segments affixed to the bone plate in response to weight bearing of the plate bone fixation construct. The spring element may be a spring that is separate from the sliding element or the spring element may be part of the sliding element. In other embodiments the spring element is an elastomeric material.

Elastic fixation of the bone to the plate through load responsive sliding elements enables controlled and symmetric motion at the fracture site which is known to promote fracture healing by callus formation. Furthermore elastic fixation enhances load distribution between fixation points which reduces stress concentrations and thereby enhances construct strength. Elastic fixation furthermore reduces bone resorption and porosis caused by stress shielding due to overly rigid fixation constructs.

Elastic fixation may be through the use of an elastomer. The elastomer may positively adhere at least to a portion of the plate or the sliding element surface to affect a desired elastic constraint of the sliding element relative to the bone plate.

In certain embodiments the elastomer is free of voids e.g. air pockets or is substantially free of voids. In other embodiments the elastomer has voids which can further reduce the effective stiffness of the system by increasing the compressibility of the elastomer.

The elastomer can be any medically suitable elastomer such as but not limited to silicone. In certain embodiments the elastomer has a modulus of elasticity in the range of 0.1 50 MPa which allows for the desired amount of movement elasticity. In certain embodiments the elastic modulus and formulation of the elastomer material may differ within the elastomer for example which might be the case if two different elastomers are used or if different thicknesses or viscosities of elastomers were used.

In certain embodiments the elastomer comprises an elastomer lumen that surrounds or encases the sliding element. In other embodiments the elastomer is between the sliding element and the wall of the recess.

In certain embodiments the sliding element may be removable as a solitary element or in conjunction with the elastomer lumen. In other words in certain embodiments the sliding element is assembled into the plate and the silicone is molded to bond them together. In other embodiments one could mold and bond the silicone onto the sliding element externally and then push that component into the plate. In this case it wouldn t be bonded to the plate. In another embodiment for an unloaded modular bone plate a surgeon can insert either an elastic sliding element a non elastic locking element or a non locking element

In certain embodiments the elastic suspension of the sliding element in the plate is achieved by means of two or more spring elements that determine an amount of bi directional translation of the sliding element relative to the plate in response to a load in a longitudinal direction of the plate.

In certain embodiments the spring elements are comprised of discrete springs. In certain embodiments the spring elements are comprised of integrated springs formed by an elastic structure or material that is part of the sliding element.

In certain embodiments the spring elements are comprised of integrated springs formed by an elastic structure or material that is part of the plate segment adjacent to the sliding element.

In certain embodiments the spring elements are formed by an elastic material elastomer that is applied between the sliding element shown as in and the plate .

In certain embodiments the spring elements are formed by an elastic material elastomer lumen that encases or surrounds the sliding element. For example the elastomer is not between the walls of the recess and the edge of the sliding element but is also on top and below the sliding element.

In one embodiment a sliding element is suspended between two or more spring elements such as shown for example in . This configuration enables elastic displacement in two opposing directions. shows an embodiment where two spring elements are integral to the sliding element. In another embodiment the spring elements may be separate from the sliding element. In another embodiment the spring elements may be a combination of a separate spring element and an integral spring element. In other embodiments the spring element may be the elastomer or elastomer lumen. In other embodiments there may be a combination of a spring element such as a separate spring and an elastomer. For example one side of the sliding element could have a spring separate or integral and on the other side of the sliding element the spring element could be an elastomer.

In certain embodiments there may be a combination of discrete or integral spring elements with elastomeric spring elements. For example a discrete and or integral spring element and the sliding element may be surrounded by an elastomer lumen. Or there may be a combination of a discrete or integral spring element and elastomeric material between the wall of the recess and the sliding element.

In certain embodiments the elastic suspension of the sliding element in the plate is achieved by means of a spring element that holds each sliding element in a defined resting position and that determines an amount of uni directional translation of each sliding element relative to the plate in response to a load in a longitudinal direction of the plate.

In certain embodiments the bone fracture plate is comprised of more than one in certain embodiments more than one and in certain embodiments more than two through hole each through hole having a sliding element and a spring element. In certain embodiments the bone fracture plate has all the same shaped and same material sliding elements and spring elements. In certain embodiments the bone fracture plate has different shaped and or different material sliding elements and or different spring elements. For example certain sections of the plate may have discrete spring elements where other sections of the plate may have spring elements integral to the sliding element and other sections may have elastomeric material spring elements or other areas of the plate may employ a combination of discrete integral and or elastic material spring elements.

In another embodiment a single spring element is used to hold the sliding element in a defined resting position. This ensures a stable position of the sliding element during insertion of a bone screw. Subsequent loading of the fixation construct such as what happens when a patient applies weight or force to the bone that has the fracture initiates motion of the sliding element whereby the onset of motion may be determined by the pre load of the spring element. Upon load removal the sliding element returns to its defined resting position.

In another embodiment the sliding element may be partially or fully embedded in a low friction layer such as a polymer membrane. This arrangement reduces friction and wear between the sliding element and the plate.

In another embodiment the sliding elements and corresponding fixation holes are configured in a staggered arrangement. See for example . Compared to sliding elements that are arranged along a straight line this staggered fixation increases the stabilization of the fixation construct when subjected to torsional loading.

In certain embodiments one or more sliding elements extend past the bone facing surface of the plate to elevate the plate body over the bone surface when the receiving hole is being compressed onto the bone surface with a non locking bone screw which in conjunction with the elastic suspension of the sliding element enables controlled relative motion between the plate and the bone surface. See .

In certain embodiments the internal sliding element is at least partially enclosed within a cavity in the side of the plate. shows the sliding element enclosed within a cavity in the side of the plate.

In another embodiment the threaded receiving hole in the sliding element is conical. This enables positive locking of a correspondingly threaded conical screw head in the sliding element.

In another embodiment the threaded receiving hole in the sliding element is cylindrical and is used in conjunction with bone screws that have the same thread outer diameter and thread pitch at the screw head and screw shaft. This has the advantage that the screw shaft is engaged in the threaded hole of the sliding element throughout screw insertion. This embodiment thereby prevents the screw head from being compressed against the sliding element. Ensuring that the screw head readily engages into the threaded hole of the sliding element also prevents pre loading of the sliding element inside the bone plate.

In certain embodiments there are a plurality of bone screws see for example . In certain embodiments the device further comprises one or more non collinear bone pegs with a threaded head and a smooth peg shaft see for example . In another embodiment one or more sliding elements may be connected to a bone using pegs with threaded heads that positively engage with the threaded hole of sliding elements. The use of locking pegs in place of locking screws reduces the risk of pre loading the sliding element inside the plate. To enhance the fixation strength locking pegs may be inserted in a multi planar configuration wherein at least two threaded holes of sliding elements have central axes that are not collinear.

In another embodiment sliding elements may only be located in a certain segment of the bone plate while another segment of the bone plate has threaded or non threaded holes as used in the industry . In one embodiment the spring elements and sliding elements are located in one segment of the plate while another segment of the plate has threaded or non threaded holes without spring elements and sliding elements. The bone plate segment with standard threaded holes or standard non threaded holes without spring elements and sliding elements as used in the industry referred to herein and in the claims as static receiving holes allows compression and rigid fixation of the plate to the bone surface whereas the bone segment with sliding elements spring elements enables elastic fixation of a corresponding bone segment which retains the ability to achieve interfragmentary motion in response to intermittent loading of the fixation construct. For example on one side of the fracture the bone plate may comprise elastic suspension using the spring elements and sliding elements whereas on the corresponding bone segment on the other side of the fracture the bone plate comprises static receiving holes and does not comprise elastic suspension . Also in certain embodiments sliding elements spring elements and static receiving holes can be used together in the same section of the bone plate. For example every other hole may be a static receiving hole and the other holes are the elastic suspension through holes . In other embodiments there is a mixture of elastic suspension using sliding elements and spring elements and static receiving holes which mixture may be the same throughout the whole bone plate across the fracture. In other embodiments the mixture of static receiving holes and elastic suspension may vary within the plate. For example one side of the fracture may have more elastic suspension and few static receiving holes whereas on the other side of the fracture there may be more static receiving holes than elastic suspension. In other words different parts of the bone plate may use different combinations of each.

In another embodiment sliding elements and one or more screw holes may be combined in the same plate segment. This allows temporary affixation of the plate to the bone surface using a standard non locking screw to facilitate application of locking screws into sliding elements.

The present invention also provides methods of fixing a bone fracture using a flexible plate. In certain embodiments the method comprising approximately aligning the fractured bone members and applying a bone plate across the fracture with a plurality of bone fasteners that rigidly connect to receiving holes in a plurality of sliding elements that are elastically suspended in the bone plate. The sliding elements are configured to permit controlled translation parallel to the longitudinal axis of the bone plate while substantially preventing displacement perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the plate. The bone screw is rigidly fixed to the sliding elements without compressing the bone plate or sliding element onto a bone surface.

In certain embodiments the receiving holes are suspended to preferentially permit translation relative to the plate along the longitudinal axis of the plate while substantially constraining motion of the one or more receiving holes in a direction that is perpendicular to an upper or bone facing surface of the bone plate.

In certain embodiments the spring elements act as elastic springs that suspend receiving holes in a neutral position relative to the plate in absence of load application and that enable controlled elastic translation of the receiving hole relative to the plate in response to load application.

In certain embodiments the flexible elements dampen the transmission of impact load between the plate and the bone member to enhance the stability of the fixation construct.

In certain embodiments the flexible elements enhance the distribution of load transfer between multiple fixation elements associated with a single bone segment. With standard static plates typically one screw is loaded more than the rest since the alignment is not perfect. Using the elastic suspension of the present invention elastically suspended sliding elements the load is distributed across all of the screws since they are allowed to displace and the elastic elements even out the loading.

In certain embodiments the flexible elements prevent at least in part direct contact between the receiving hole and the plate to reduce surface wear and material fatigue.

In certain embodiments the elastic suspension of two or more receiving holes and the plate is practiced on one side of a fracture while the corresponding bone segment is attached to static receiving holes.

In certain embodiments the elastic suspension of two or more receiving holes and the plate is practiced on both sides of a fracture.

In certain embodiments the elastic suspension of two or more receiving holes and the plate provides for a substantial reduction in axial stiffness of the fixation constructs in the range of 40 90 compared to a bone plate construct with static receiving holes.

In certain embodiments one or more flexible elements contain a sensor to measure displacement pressure or load to capture the presence or magnitude of load transfer between a receiving element and the plate as a means for estimating the progression of fracture healing. For example a sensor can be embedded to help determine when the bone is healed. For example if the sensor measures displacement then one would expect as the bone healed the displacement of the parts would decrease with time. If the senor measured load one would expect the load on the plate to diminish as the bone healed.

In certain embodiments the elastomer material comprises an elastomer lumen and wherein the elastomer lumen of one or more of the flexible elements contains a means for energy generation to supply transient power to said sensor.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

