---

title: Method to grow group III-nitrides on copper using passivation layers
abstract: Group III-nitride epilayers can be grown directly on copper substrates using intermediate passivation layers. For example, single crystalline c-plane GaN can be grown on Cu (110) substrates with MOCVD. The growth relies on a low temperature AlN passivation layer to isolate any alloying reaction between Ga and Cu.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08741748&OS=08741748&RS=08741748
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08741748
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to Group III nitride semiconductor growth and in particular to a method to grow Group III nitrides on copper using passivation layers.

Gallium nitride and its aluminum and indium compound semiconductor alloys have been a focus of intense research effort because of their importance in light emitting lasing high frequency high mobility and high power devices. Due to the lack in availability and high prices of bulk GaN substrates GaN is typically grown heteroepitaxially on foreign substrates such as sapphire SiC and Si. When these devices are operated in high power conditions their performance is often limited by the poor electrical and thermal conductivity of the substrates. A widely adopted solution to this problem is to remove or lift off the substrates and bond the thin epilayers on thermally conductive submount materials such as metal. However direct growth of GaN on metal substrates would allow more ideal device performance by providing improved heat dissipation and current spreading capability and avoiding the need for the lift off and bonding processes. The feasibility of GaN heteroepitaxy on metal has been demonstrated on single crystalline Cu Mo Fe and W substrates. See S. Inoue et al. 88 261910 2006 K. Okamoto et al. 311 1311 2009 K. Okamoto et al. 93 251906 2008 and G. Li et al. 89 241905 2006 . The growth technique of these works was pulsed laser deposition at low growth temperatures ranging from 450 to 700 C. In addition Zhu et al. recently demonstrated the epitaxial growth of GaN on lattice matched metallic substrates. See Zhu et al. U.S. Pat. Appl. Pub. 2011 0117376. However this technique required one axis lattice matching of the c plane of wurtzite GaN to the 110 crystalline plane of the tungsten substrate and is not generally feasible for other metallic substrates.

Therefore a need remains for a facile method of Group III nitride heteroepitaxy on metal substrates using metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD which is the most adopted growth technique for Group III nitride devices in industry and academia.

The present invention is directed to a method for growing Group III nitride semiconductor materials on copper substrates using MOCVD because of the superior thermal and electrical conductivity of copper. The method comprises providing a copper substrate growing a passivation layer on the copper substrate and growing a Group III nitride epilayer on the passivation layer.

For example and as described in detail below copper can be a suitable substrate material for c plane GaN epitaxy using metal organic chemical vapor deposition. By using a low temperature AlN passivation layer Ga and Cu alloying can be prevented so that GaN layer can be grown on Cu at a temperature of 1000 C. As an example an epitaxial relation of GaN 0001 Cu 110 was observed using cross section transmission electron microscopy and electron back scatter diffraction. The single crystalline GaN epilayer shows a threading dislocation density of 3 10cmand strong band edge emission at room temperature. The site alignment between GaN 0001 and Cu 110 shows a mesh ratio of 4 3 and 5 3 in GaN 10 10 and GaN 1100 directions which is attributed to the epitaxial relation observed.

The present invention is directed to a method for growing Group III nitride semiconductor materials on copper substrates using MOCVD because of the superior thermal and electrical conductivity of copper. The method comprises providing a copper substrate growing a passivation layer on the copper substrate and growing a Group III nitride epilayer on the passivation layer. The copper substrate can comprise crystalline copper such as single crystal Cu 110 Cu 100 or Cu 111 or oriented polycrystalline copper. For example the passivation layer can comprise AlN SiN or TiN or compounds thereof with the main function of preventing alloying between the Group III element e.g. gallium indium or aluminum and copper. For example the passivation layer can be grown by physical vapor deposition chemical vapor deposition metal organic chemical vapor deposition sputtering reactive sputtering or pulsed laser deposition. Typically the passivation layer can have a thickness of between about 2 and 50 nm. The Group III nitride can comprise gallium nitride indium nitride aluminum nitride or their ternary or quaternary alloys. For example the gallium nitride can comprise single crystalline c plane GaN. The Group III nitride epilayer can be grown by metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD also referred to as organometallic vapor phase epitaxy typically at a temperature between about 500 C. and 1085 C.

As an example of the invention high purity 99.9999 polycrystalline Cu squares with a dimension of 10 10 0.5 mm were used as substrates. The surface roughness of these copper substrates was 0.5 nm rms achieved by chemical and mechanical planarization. The copper substrates were coarsely polycrystalline with crystal grain size ranging from tens to hundreds of microns. The orientations of the copper crystal grains included etc. Therefore these polycrystalline copper substrates provided a combinatorial approach to investigate epitaxial relationships of GaN on copper. The GaN growth was performed in an MOCVD system with ammonia NH trimethylgallium Ga CH and trimethylaluminum Al CH as precursors and Nand Has carrier gases. Two growth strategies were employed. First a standard 2 step growth technique involving a low temperature GaN buffer layer was used. See S. Nakamura 30 L1705 1991 . Second instead of using low temperature GaN buffer an AlN passivation layer was first grown at 800 C. and 150 torr which was followed by the growth of a 2 m thick GaN layer at 50 torr and 1000 C. without intentional doping. The epitaxial relation between GaN and the Cu substrate was determined by cross section transmission electron microscopy TEM and electron back scatter diffraction EBSD microscopy. The optical properties of the GaN epilayer were investigated by cathodoluminescence CL with an electron beam acceleration voltage of 10 kV and current of 3 nA.

The first growth technique with low temperature GaN passivation layer yielded no GaN epilayers on Cu substrates. The Cu substrate surface is severely pitted. From the Ga Cu phase diagram Ga rich CuGa alloy has a melting temperature much lower than the growth temperature. It is possible that these Ga rich CuGa form during the buffer growth prevent formation of GaN epilayer. The second growth technique with low temperature AlN passivation layer did yield GaN layers on Cu substrates. In this case two distinct types of surface morphology of GaN layer are observed. The first type is featured by GaN crystal grains orientated in multiple directions as shown in indicating polycrystalline GaN morphology. Cross sectional TEM samples were prepared from areas like that shown in using selective area focused gallium ion beam milling. The underlying Cu orientation was found to be single crystalline Cu 111 . The second type of GaN morphology has regular hexagonal shaped pits as shown in a SEM image in . The sides of these pits orientated in the same direction suggesting a single crystalline c plane GaN epilayer. Multiple cross sectional TEM samples were prepared from areas like that shown in . A representative z contrast scanning TEM image is shown in . From the TEM image both AlN passivation layer and the GaN epilayer show a single crystalline texture without grain boundaries. From the electron diffraction pattern inset of taken from an area covering epilayer and substrate 0004 GaN diffraction spot lies along the growth direction with the Cu 220 indicating that the GaN on Cu orientation is GaN 0001 Cu 110 . This result differs from the previously reported epitaxial relationship GaN 0001 Cu 111 using pulse laser deposition at low growth temperature. See S. Inoue et al. 88 261910 2006 .

The electron diffraction pattern from the copper to GaN has a slight rotation angle which represents a 1.5 tilt between GaN epilayer and the Cu crystals. This tilt can be described using a Nagai tilt model. See H. Nagai 45 3789 1974 . When the lattice constant of the epilayer in the growth direction is larger than that of the substrate as is the case of GaN on copper the lattice of the epilayer is strained to equal that of the substrate at the steps of the substrate. However the epilayer lattice above the substrate steps has relaxed lattice constant which is larger than substrate. This difference in lattice constant of the epilayer leads to a tilt. The tilt of the epilayer has been reported in other Group III nitride materials systems. See X. R Huang et al. 86 211916 2005 and M. Kry ko et al. 4 142 2010 . In this case the Nagai tilt between AlN passivation layer and copper is considered. Along the growth direction c plane AlN lattice constant is 4.95 A and Cu 110 is 3.61 A. The Nagai tilt is given by

The threading dislocation density of the GaN epilayer was estimated from the TEM images. For example six dislocations are observed in . Based on the thickness of the TEM sample 0.15 m as measured by SEM and the imaging size 1.5 m the threading dislocation density is estimated to be 3 10cm. The voids in GaN epilayer shown in are likely due to the incomplete lateral coalescence of GaN. The voids in Cu near the AlN interface are believed to due to Cu evaporation and out diffusion at high temperature GaN growth stage.

The TEM image in shows only a limited sampling area 1.5 0.15 m . To unambiguously confirm the GaN crystalline and the Cu substrate orientation large area e beam scans 100 60 m were performed in order to record an EBSD pattern. The EBSD pattern obtained from GaN epilayers as shown in and copper substrates are shown in and respectively. With EBSD software pattern bands are detected via a Hough transform. The Hough transform can then be used to enable band detection and relate these locations to the crystal orientation. After three bands are identified the orientation of the crystal was determined. The analysis of the Kikuchi band patterns confirms the conclusion from the TEM results the GaN epitaxial relation with Cu is GaN 0001 Cu 110 .

Room temperature CL measured from the single crystalline GaN epilayer areas is shown in . The peak centered at 366 nm represents GaN band edge emission. The full width at half maximum FWHM of the spectrum is 11 nm equivalent to that of un doped GaN epilayer grown on sapphire using the standard 2 step growth technique. See S. Nakamura 30 L1705 1991 . Moreover it has been suggested that Cu incorporation in GaN can lead to optical transitions at green bands such as 517 nm associated with deep Cu induced states. See J. Senawiratne et al. 892 569 2006 . In this case no such optical transitions are detected indicating that the GaN epilayer is not doped with Cu.

A specific relation between the atomic arrangements of the GaN and Cu lattices could explain the heteroepitaxy of GaN 0001 on Cu 110 . There exists a set of mesh ratios when the hexagonal GaN 0001 and Cu 110 overlie each other as shown in . Along the direction of Cu 110 or GaN 10 10 there exists aligned sites between every sixth row of GaN and every fifth row of Cu sites i.e. a mesh ratio of 6 5. Along the direction of Cu 001 or GaN 1100 there exists aligned sites between every fifth row of GaN and every third row of Cu sites i.e. a mesh ration of 5 3. The lattice mismatch that follows from such a mesh relation is 0.4 low enough to facilitate the observed epitaxial relation between GaN and Cu. As for the case of GaN 0001 on Cu 111 shown in the site alignment is less favorable than GaN 0001 on Cu 110 . This can be seen from the density of the aligned sites per unit of surface area. From the size of the alignment unit cells which are highlighted with solid line in the aligned site density is 0.71 nmand 0.42 nmfor GaN 0001 Cu 110 and GaN 0001 GaN 111 respectively. The low alignment site density for GaN 0001 GaN 111 may be the reason for observed polycrystalline GaN morphology on GaN 111 .

The present invention has been described as a method to grow Group III nitride on copper using passivation layers. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

