---

title: MicroRNAs differentially expressed in cervical cancer and uses thereof
abstract: The present invention concerns methods and compositions for identifying a miRNA profile for a particular condition, such as cervical disease, and using the profile in assessing the condition of a patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09080215&OS=09080215&RS=09080215
owner: Asuragen, Inc.
number: 09080215
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130107
---
This application is a divisional of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 822 filed Sep. 12 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 972 646 filed Sep. 14 2007 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to the field of molecular biology. More particularly it concerns methods and compositions involving microRNA miRNAs molecules. Certain aspects of the invention include applications for miRNAs in diagnostics therapeutics and prognostics of cervical cancer.

In 2001 several groups used a cloning method to isolate and identify a large group of microRNAs miRNAs from and humans Lagos Quintana et al. 2001 Lau et al. 2001 Lee and Ambros 2001 . Several hundred miRNAs have been identified in plants and animals including humans which do not appear to have endogenous siRNAs. Thus while similar to siRNAs miRNAs are distinct.

miRNAs thus far observed have been approximately 21 22 nucleotides in length and they arise from longer precursors which are transcribed from non protein encoding genes. See review of Carrington et al. 2003 . The precursors form structures that fold back on themselves in self complementary regions they are then processed by the nuclease Dicer in animals or DCL1 in plants to generate the short double stranded miRNA. One of the miRNA strands is incorporated into a complex of proteins and miRNA called the RNA induced silencing complex RISC . The miRNA guides the RISC complex to a target mRNA which is then cleaved or translationally silenced depending on the degree of sequence complementarity of the miRNA to its target mRNA. Currently it is believed that perfect or nearly perfect complementarity leads to mRNA degradation as is most commonly observed in plants. In contrast imperfect base pairing as is primarily found in animals leads to translational silencing. However recent data suggest additional complexity Bagga et al. 2005 Lim et al. 2005 and mechanisms of gene silencing by miRNAs remain under intense study.

Recent studies have shown that expression levels of numerous miRNAs are associated with various cancers reviewed in Esquela Kerscher and Slack 2006 Calin and Croce 2006 . miRNAs have also been implicated in regulating cell growth and cell and tissue differentiation cellular processes that are associated with the development of cancer.

Cervical cancer is the second most common cause of cancer in women worldwide Pisani et al. 2002 Parkin et al. 2005 . About 470 000 new cases are diagnosed and approximately 230 000 women die of cervical cancer every year Pisani et al. 1999 . While the majority 80 of these new cases and deaths occur in developing countries it is estimated that approximately 3 700 women will die from invasive cervical cancer in the United States in 2007 Jemal et al. 2007 .

Epidemiological and molecular studies have demonstrated that human papillomaviruses HPVs are the etiological agents of the vast majority 99.7 of cervical cancers and their intraepithelial precursors Pisani et al. 2002 Parkin et al. 2005 zur Hausen 2002 . Approximately fifty HPV types infect the anogenital tract including the uterine cervix Pisani et al. 2002 Parkin et al. 2005 . High risk HPV types are associated with intraepithelial lesions that can progress into invasive carcinomas. Among these HPV 16 and HPV 18 are associated with 50 and 20 respectively of cervical squamous cell carcinomas Bosch and de Sanjose 2002 zur Hausen 2002 Clifford et al. 2003 . Other high risk HPV types 31 33 35 39 and 45 among others are found in 20 30 of cervical cancers Bosch and de Sanjose 2002 zur Hausen 2002 Clifford et al. 2003 . High risk HPV types are also associated with 25 of head and neck tumors in particular tumors of the mouth tonsils esophagus and larynx Gillison et al. 2000 Rose et al. 2006 .

Cytological examination of cervical smears with Papanicolaou staining Pap smears is the screening method universally accepted for early detection of cervical cancer and its precursors. Pap smear screening has been very effective in reducing cervical cancer incidence and mortality. Abnormal pap smear results include mild dysplasias referred to as low grade squamous intraepithelial lesions LSIL and moderate to severe dysplasias referred to as high grade squamous intraepithelial lesions HSIL . A Pap smear with LSIL or HSIL indicates a need for further examination and possible treatment. In one study ALTS Group 2000 over 80 of LSILs were found to be positive for HPV however almost 50 of LSILs will regress to normal. HSILs are generally considered to be pre cancerous in nature and indicate more aggressive treatment. In addition as many as 3 million Pap smears are classified as inconclusive in the U.S. every year and cervical cancer is still a significant public health problem. Pap smear screening is imperfect due in part to sampling and staining errors resulting in false negatives. It is estimated that 17 of cervical cancers develop in women with previous false negative Pap smears. It is also estimated that approximately 9 of cervical cancers develop in women with previous true negative Pap tests.

As an adjunct to cytology screening The United States Food and Drug Administration has approved a nucleic acid hybridization test for HPV for all women over 30 years old and as triage for women with inconclusive Pap smears. However several problems associated with this assay include variable assay sensitivity the inability to genotype certain strains of HPV and the inability to detect about half of the high risk HPV types associated with cervical cancer Begeron et al. 2000 de Cremoux et al. 2006 .

A need exists for additional diagnostic assays that can assess the condition of cervical tissue in general and accurately distinguish pre cancerous or cancerous tissue from non cancerous tissue in particular.

Embodiments of the invention include compositions and methods of identifying miRNAs that are differentially expressed or mis regulated in various states of normal pre cancerous cancerous and or abnormal tissues including but not limited to normal cervical tissue pre cancerous diseased cervical tissue e.g. low grade squamous intraepithelial lesions LSIL and high grade squamous intraepithelial lesions HSIL squamous cell carcinoma cervical cancer e.g. cervical squamous cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva and vagina penile intraepithelial lesions anal cancer cancers of the digestive tract oral cancers a subset of head and neck cancers and tonsil cancer. In certain aspects the cancers are related to or a result of HPV infection. In other aspects a subject known or at risk of infection with HPV can be monitored. In still a further aspect a subject can be monitored periodically e.g. miRNA assays can be conducted in conjunction with pap smears or non invasive procedures or procedures with limited invasiveness e.g. swabbing or flushing and the like . The method of sampling is not intended to be a limiting factor and is at the discretion of the care giver. Further the invention describes a method for diagnosing normal pre cancerous and cancerous tissues or cells including but not limited to cervical squamous intraepithelial lesions and cervical cancer based on determining levels increased or decreased of selected miRNAs in patient derived samples. Samples may be obtained and or analyzed from patients including but not limited to patients having or suspected of having pre cancerous cervical lesion or cervical cancer or a patient suspected of having one or the other condition.

The term miRNA is used according to its ordinary and plain meaning and refers to a microRNA molecule found in eukaryotes that is involved in RNA based gene regulation. See e.g. Carrington et al. 2003 which is hereby incorporated by reference. Individual miRNAs in a variety of organisms have been identified sequenced and given names. Names of miRNAs and their sequences related to the present invention are provided herein.

It is understood that a synthetic nucleic acid of the invention means that the nucleic acid does not have a chemical structure or sequence of a naturally occurring nucleic acid or is made by non natural processes. Consequently it will be understood that the term synthetic miRNA refers to a synthetic nucleic acid that functions as or inhibits the functions of an miRNA at least in part in a cell or under physiological conditions.

While many of the embodiments of the invention involve synthetic miRNAs or synthetic nucleic acids in some embodiments of the invention the nucleic acid molecule s need not be synthetic. In certain embodiments a non synthetic miRNA employed in methods and compositions of the invention may have all or part of the sequence and structure of a naturally occurring miRNA precursor or the mature miRNA. For example non synthetic miRNAs used in methods and compositions of the invention may not have one or more modified nucleotides or nucleotide analogs. In these embodiments the non synthetic miRNA may or may not be recombinantly produced. In particular embodiments the nucleic acid in methods and or compositions of the invention is specifically a synthetic miRNA though in other embodiments the invention specifically involves a non synthetic miRNA and not a synthetic miRNA. Any embodiments discussed with respect to the use of synthetic miRNAs can be applied with respect to non synthetic miRNAs and vice versa.

It will be understood that the term naturally occurring refers to something found in an organism without any intervention by a person it could refer to a naturally occurring wildtype or mutant molecule. In some embodiments a synthetic miRNA molecule does not have the sequence of a naturally occurring miRNA molecule. In other embodiments a synthetic miRNA molecule may have the sequence of a naturally occurring miRNA molecule but the chemical structure of the molecule particularly in the part unrelated specifically to the precise sequence non sequence chemical structure differs from chemical structure of the naturally occurring miRNA molecule with that sequence. In some cases the synthetic miRNA has both a sequence and non sequence chemical structure that are not found in a naturally occurring miRNA. Moreover the sequence of the synthetic molecules will identify which miRNA is effectively being provided or inhibited the endogenous miRNA will be referred to as the corresponding miRNA. Corresponding miRNA sequences that can be used in the context of the invention include but are not limited to all or a portion of those sequences in SEQ ID NOs 1 562 as well as any other of miRNA sequence miRNA precursor sequence or any complementary sequence. In some embodiments the sequence is or is derived from or contains all or part of a sequence identified in Table 1 below to target a particular miRNA or set of miRNAs or mRNA or set of mRNA .

In some embodiments it may be useful to know whether a cell expresses a particular miRNA endogenously or whether such expression is affected under particular conditions or a particular disease state. Thus in some embodiments of the invention methods include assaying a cell or a sample containing a cell for the presence of one or more miRNA. In other aspects a sample may comprise RNA or nucleic acid isolated from a tissue or cells of a patient or reference. Consequently in some embodiments methods include a step of generating an miRNA profile for a sample. The term miRNA profile refers to a set of data regarding the expression pattern for a plurality of miRNAs e.g. one or more miRNA from Table 1 in the sample it is contemplated that the miRNA profile can be obtained using a set of miRNAs using for example nucleic acid amplification or hybridization techniques well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. It is contemplate the any one or subset of the miRNA listed in this application can be included or excluded from the claimed invention.

In some embodiments of the invention an miRNA profile is generated by steps that include a labeling miRNA in the sample b hybridizing miRNA to a number of probes or amplifying a number of miRNA and c determining miRNA hybridization to the probes or detection of miRNA amplification products wherein an miRNA profile is generated. See U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 575 743 and the U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 649 584 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 141 707 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Methods of the invention involve diagnosing a patient based on an miRNA expression or expression profile. In certain embodiments the presence absence elevation or reduction in the level of expression of a particular miRNA or set of miRNA in a cell is correlated with a disease state compared to the expression level of that miRNA or set of miRNAs in a normal cell. This correlation allows for diagnostic methods to be carried out when the expression level of an miRNA is measured in a biological sample being assessed and then compared to the expression level of a normal cell. It is specifically contemplated that miRNA profiles for patients particularly those suspected of having a particular disease or condition such as a pre cancerous cervical lesion or a cervical cancer can be generated by evaluating any miRNA or sets of the miRNAs discussed in this application. The miRNA profile that is generated from the patient will be one that provides information regarding the particular disease or condition. In many embodiments the miRNA profile is generated using miRNA hybridization or amplification e.g. array hybridization or RT PCR . In certain aspects a miRNA profile can be used in conjunction with other diagnostic tests such as serum protein profiles.

Embodiments of the invention include methods for diagnosing prognosing and or assessing a condition in a patient comprising measuring an expression profile of one or more miRNAs in a sample from the patient. The difference in the expression profile in the sample from the patient and a reference expression profile such as an expression profile from a normal or non pathologic sample or a reference e.g. a reference sample or a digital reference is indicative of a pathologic disease or cancerous condition. An miRNA or probe set comprising or identifying a segment of a corresponding miRNA can include all or part of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 125 150 175 200 250 300 350 400 500 550 to 562 or any integer or range derivable there between of a miRNA or a probe or its complement listed in Table 1. It is contemplate the any one or subset of the miRNA listed in this application can be included or excluded from the claimed invention.

In certain aspects the methods for diagnosing a condition in a patient comprise measuring an expression profile of one or more miRNAs from Table 1 in a sample from the patient wherein the difference between the expression profile in the sample from the patient and an expression profile of a normal sample or a reference is indicative of a pathological condition.

In a further aspect the methods for diagnosing a condition in a patient comprises measuring an expression profile of one or more miRNAs in a sample from the patient wherein the difference between the expression profile of the sample from the patient and an expression profile of a reference is indicative of a cervical tissue disease or condition wherein the miRNA is one or more of hsa let 7a hsa let 7b hsa let 7c hsa let 7i hsa miR 100 hsa miR 101 hsa miR 106a hsa miR 125a hsa miR 125b hsa miR 126 AS hsa miR 127 hsa miR 130a hsa miR 134 hsa miR 142 3p hsa miR 143 hsa miR 145 hsa miR 148b hsa miR 149 hsa miR 151 hsa miR 152 hsa miR 154 hsa miR 15a hsa miR 15b hsa miR 16 hsa miR 17 5p hsa miR 181a hsa miR 185 hsa miR 186 hsa miR 187 hsa miR 192 hsa miR 193a hsa miR 195 hsa miR 196a hsa miR 196b hsa miR 199a hsa miR 199a AS hsa miR 199b hsa miR 19a hsa miR 20a hsa miR 203 hsa miR 205 hsa miR 21 hsa miR 214 hsa miR 215 hsa miR 22 hsa miR 221 hsa miR 223 hsa miR 23b hsa miR 24 hsa miR 25 hsa miR 26a hsa miR 26b hsa miR 299 5p hsa miR 29b hsa miR 29c hsa miR 302c AS hsa miR 30a 3p hsa miR 30a 5p hsa miR 30b hsa miR 30c hsa miR 30e 3p hsa miR 30e 5p hsa miR 31 hsa miR 320 hsa miR 324 3p hsa miR 335 hsa miR 338 hsa miR 342 hsa miR 34a hsa miR 361 hsa miR 365 hsa miR 367 hsa miR 368 hsa miR 370 hsa miR 374 hsa miR 376a hsa miR 379 hsa miR 381 hsa miR 423 hsa miR 424 hsa miR 450 hsa miR 7 hsa miR 93 hsa miR 95 hsa miR 96 hsa miR 99a hsa miR 99b ambi miR 7027 ambi miR 7029 hsa miR 509 hsa miR 193b ambi miR 7039 hsa miR 526b hsa miR 498 hsa miR 452 ambi miR 7062 ambi miR 7070 hsa miR 497 ambi miR 7079 ambi miR 7083 ambi miR 7085 hsa miR 503 or ambi miR 7101 or complements thereof.

In a particular aspect hsa miR 205 hsa miR 196b hsa miR 203 hsa miR 503 hsa miR 196a hsa miR 99a hsa miR 187 ambi miR 7083 and or ambi miR 7101 or any combination or complement thereof being expressed or having an increased expression or upregulated expression when compared with expression in a non cervical reference sample is indicative of cervical tissue. In another aspect a decrease in expression or down regulation of hsa miR 7 and or hsa miR 215 is also indicative of a cervical tissue.

In still further aspects of the invention the methods for diagnosing a condition in a patient comprise measuring an expression profile of one or more miRNAs in a sample or a cervix sample from the patient believed to be pre cancerous or cancerous or contain pre cancerous or cancerous cells wherein the difference between the expression profile in the sample from the patient and an expression profile of normal adjacent tissue NAT or a reference tissue is indicative of a disease or condition wherein the miRNA is one or more miRNA listed in Table 1. It is contemplate the any one or subset of the miRNA listed in this application can be included or excluded from the claimed invention.

In still further aspects of the invention the methods for diagnosing a condition in a patient comprise measuring an expression profile of one or more miRNAs in a cervix sample from a patient believed to be precancerous or cancerous or contain precancerous or cancerous cells or from a patient suspected of having or at risk of developing a pre cancerous or cancerous condition wherein the difference between the expression profile in the sample from the patient and an expression profile of normal cervix NCX or normal adjacent tissue NAT or a reference tissue is indicative of a disease or condition herein the miRNA is one or more of hsa let 7a hsa let 7b hsa let 7c hsa let 7d hsa let 7e hsa let 7f hsa let 7g hsa let 7i hsa miR 1 hsa miR 100 hsa miR 101 hsa miR 106a hsa miR 106b hsa miR 10a hsa miR 10b hsa miR 124a hsa miR 125a hsa miR 125b hsa miR 126 hsa miR 126 AS hsa miR 127 hsa miR 130a hsa miR 130b hsa miR 133a hsa miR 134 hsa miR 135b hsa miR 139 hsa miR 140 hsa miR 141 hsa miR 142 5p hsa miR 143 hsa miR 145 hsa miR 146a hsa miR 149 hsa miR 150 hsa miR 152 hsa miR 153 hsa miR 154 hsa miR 155 hsa miR 15b hsa miR 16 hsa miR 17 5p hsa miR 18a hsa miR 181a hsa miR 181b hsa miR 182 hsa miR 183 hsa miR 185 hsa miR 186 hsa miR 187 hsa miR 189 hsa miR 190 hsa miR 195 hsa miR 196a hsa miR 196b hsa miR 199a hsa miR 199a AS hsa miR 199b hsa miR 20a hsa miR 200a hsa miR 200b hsa miR 200c hsa miR 203 hsa miR 204 hsa miR 205 hsa miR 21 hsa miR 210 hsa miR 214 hsa miR 215 hsa miR 218 hsa miR 223 hsa miR 224 hsa miR 23b hsa miR 24 hsa miR 25 hsa miR 26a hsa miR 26b hsa miR 27b hsa miR 28 hsa miR 296 hsa miR 299 5p hsa miR 29a hsa miR 29b hsa miR 29c hsa miR 302d hsa miR 30a 3p hsa miR 30a 5p hsa miR 30b hsa miR 30d hsa miR 31 hsa miR 320 hsa miR 324 3p hsa miR 325 hsa miR 328 hsa miR 330 hsa miR 335 hsa miR 339 hsa miR 361 hsa miR 365 hsa miR 368 hsa miR 370 hsa miR 373 AS hsa miR 376a hsa miR 377 hsa miR 379 hsa miR 381 hsa miR 382 hsa miR 423 hsa miR 424 hsa miR 429 hsa miR 450 hsa miR 92 hsa miR 93 hsa miR 95 hsa miR 98 hsa miR 99a hsa miR 99b hsa miR 520d hsa miR 518b ambi miR 7029 hsa miR 491 hsa miR 515 5p hsa miR 498 ambi miR 7062 hsa miR 432 hsa miR 495 ambi miR 7066 ambi miR 7068 1 ambi miR 7070 hsa miR 492 hsa miR 497 ambi miR 7074 ambi miR 7075 hsa miR 501 ambi miR 7079 ambi miR 7083 ambi miR 7085 hsa miR 500 hsa miR 513 hsa miR 505 ambi miR 7100 or ambi miR 7101 hsa miR 133b hsa miR 455 hsa asg 5021 st1 hsa asg 13254 st1 hsa asg 14176 st1 hsa miR 487b hsa miR 411 hsa miR 574 hsa miR 542 5p hsa asg 5617 st1 hsa asg 14172 st1 hsa asg 13304 st2 hsa asg 13297 st1 hsa miR157 st2 hsa cand317 st1 hsa miR 329 hsa asg 10202 st2 hsa miR 369 5p hsa asg 13284 st1 hsa asg 9687 st1 hsa miR 433 hsa miR 565 hsa asg 562 st1 hsa asg 279 st2 hsa asg 8411 st2 hsa asg 7472 st2 hsa asg 13279 st1 hsa miR 487a hsa cand206 st1 hsa cand345 st1 hsa asg 9696 st1 hsa miR 485 3p hsa asg 13166 st2 hsa miR 594 st2 hsa miR 299 3p hsa asg 924 st1 hsa miR 539 hsa asg 10883 st1 hsa miR 585 hsa miR 493 5p hsa asg 12964 st2 hsa asg 4557 st2 hsa asg 10674 st1 hsa asg 14230 st1 hsa asg 9681 st1 hsa miR 628 hsa asg 13237 st1 hsa asg 13230 st2 hsa miR 493 3p hsa miR 654 hsa asg 2919 st1 hsa asg 8067 st2 hsa asg 11199 st2 hsa asg 12346 st2 hsa asg 11883 st1 hsa miR102 st2 hsa asg 2027 st1 hsa asg 3711 st2 hsa asg 3145 st1 hsa asg 7465 st2 hsa asg 3376 st1 hsa cand283 st1 hsa asg 2301 st2 hsa cand207 st1 hsa miR 598 hsa asg 10278 st2 hsa miR 18b hsa asg 11181 st1 hsa asg 7023 st2 hsa asg 3597 st2 hsa asg 5304 st1 hsa asg 11688 st1 hsa cand720 st1 hsa asg 13308 st2 hsa asg 3038 st2 hsa asg 13966 st2 hsa asg 13189 st1 hsa asg 11938 st1 hsa asg 5740 st2 hsa asg 8477 st1 hsa asg 12325 st2 hsa asg 12356 st1 hsa asg 6758 st1 hsa asg 522 st1 hsa asg 4564 st2 hsa asg 6951 st2 hsa asg 9920 st1 hsa asg 13613 st2 hsa miR 184 hsa miR 503 hsa miR 485 5p hsa miR 494 hsa miR 504 hsa miR 211 hsa miR 99b hsa miR 499 hsa miR 422b hsa miR 338 hsa miR 422a hsa miR 331 hsa miR 489 hsa miR 324 5p hsa miR 151 hsa miR 17 3p hsa miR 340 hsa miR 194 hsa let 7d hsa let 7e hsa miR 100 hsa miR 101 hsa miR 106b hsa miR 10b hsa miR 125a 5p hsa miR 125b 2 hsa miR 126 hsa miR 127 3p hsa miR 129 3p hsa miR 135a hsa miR 136 hsa miR 136 hsa miR 139 5p hsa miR 140 3p hsa miR 140 5p hsa miR 141 hsa miR 142 3p hsa miR 143 hsa miR 144 hsa miR 144 hsa miR 145 hsa miR 146b 5p hsa miR 151 3p hsa miR 154 hsa miR 15b hsa miR 17 hsa miR 181c hsa miR 181d hsa miR 183 hsa miR 193a 5p hsa miR 195 hsa miR 197 hsa miR 199a 5p hsa miR 199b 3p hsa miR 199b 5p hsa miR 20a hsa miR 21 hsa miR 212 hsa miR 214 hsa miR 24 1 hsa miR 26b hsa miR 28 3p hsa miR 28 5p hsa miR 29a hsa miR 29b 1 hsa miR 29b 2 hsa miR 29c hsa miR 30a hsa miR 30a hsa miR 30b hsa miR 30c 2 hsa miR 31 hsa miR 32 hsa miR 330 3p hsa miR 337 3p hsa miR 337 5p hsa miR 345 hsa miR 361 5p hsa miR 374a hsa miR 374b hsa miR 374b hsa miR 375 hsa miR 376b hsa miR 376c hsa miR 377 hsa miR 410 hsa miR 424 hsa miR 425 hsa miR 431 hsa miR 450a hsa miR 451 hsa miR 455 3p hsa miR 455 5p hsa miR 483 3p hsa miR 486 5p hsa miR 488 hsa miR 490 3p hsa miR 499 5p hsa miR 501 5p hsa miR 505 hsa miR 512 3p hsa miR 513c hsa miR 517 hsa miR 542 3p hsa miR 543 hsa miR 574 3p hsa miR 602 hsa miR 628 5p hsa miR 629 hsa miR 630 hsa miR 650 hsa miR 654 3p hsa miR 654 5p hsa miR 655 hsa miR 656 hsa miR 744 hsa miR 766 hsa miR 768 3p hsa miR 873 hsa miR 885 5p hsa miR 886 3p hsa miR 886 5p hsa miR 889 hsa miR 93 hsa miR 940 hsa miR 944 hsa miR 96 hsa miR 99a hsa miR 99b or complements thereof.

In certain aspects the reduced expression or down regulation of hsa miR 1 hsa miR 100 hsa miR 125b hsa miR 125b 2 hsa miR 133a hsa miR 133b hsa miR 134 hsa miR 135a hsa miR 139 5p hsa miR 136 hsa miR 143 hsa miR 154 hsa miR 204 hsa miR 211 hsa miR 218 hsa miR 224 hsa miR 143 hsa miR 145 hsa miR 145 hsa miR 299 3p hsa miR 299 5p hsa miR 368 hsa miR 99a hsa miR 195 hsa miR 337 3p hsa miR 337 5p hsa miR 375 hsa miR 376a hsa miR 376c hsa miR 379 hsa miR 381 hsa miR 410 hsa miR 411 hsa miR 424 hsa miR 451 hsa miR 455 5p hsa miR 495 hsa miR 497 hsa miR 517 hsa miR 654 3p hsa miR 885 5p hsa miR 886 5p hsa miR 99a ambi miR 7101 and or ambi miR 7029 or a complement thereof relative to normal adjacent tissue or a normal cervix tissue reference is indicative of a cancerous condition or tissue. In other aspects the increased or upregulation of hsa miR 21 hsa miR 21 hsa miR 31 hsa miR 31 hsa miR 135b hsa miR 141 hsa miR 182 hsa miR 183 hsa miR 203 hsa miR 205 hsa miR 224 hsa miR 141 hsa miR 944 hsa miR 96 and or hsa miR 182 or complement thereof relative to normal adjacent tissue or a normal cervix tissue reference is indicative of a cancerous condition or cancerous tissue.

In a still further aspect the reduced expression or down regulation of hsa miR 1 hsa miR 133a hsa miR 204 hsa miR 218 hsa miR 143 hsa miR 368 hsa miR 99a hsa miR 100 hsa miR 195 hsa miR 376a hsa miR 424 hsa miR 497 hsa miR 2995p hsa miR 154 hsa miR 134 ambi miR 7101 and or ambi miR 7029 or complement thereof relative to normal cervix tissue is indicative of a cancerous condition or tissue. In other aspects the increased or upregulation of hsa miR 205 hsa miR 183 hsa miR 31 hsa miR 224 hsa miR 182 hsa miR 21 and or hsa miR 203 or complement thereof relative to normal cervix tissue is indicative of a cancerous condition or cancerous tissue.

In yet still further aspects of the invention the reduced expression or down regulation of hsa miR 133b hsa miR 455 hsa asg 5021 st1 hsa asg 13254 st1 hsa asg 14176 st1 hsa miR 487b hsa miR 411 hsa miR 574 hsa miR 542 5p hsa asg 5617 st1 hsa asg 14172 st1 hsa asg 13304 st2 hsa asg 13297 st1 hsa miR157 st2 hsa miR 329 hsa asg 10202 st2 hsa miR 369 5p hsa asg 13284 st1 hsa asg 9687 st1 hsa miR 433 hsa miR 565 hsa asg 562 st1 hsa asg 279 st2 hsa asg 8411 st2 hsa asg 7472 st2 hsa asg 13279 st1 hsa miR 487a hsa cand206 st1 hsa cand345 st1 hsa asg 9696 st1 hsa miR 485 3p hsa asg 13166 st2 hsa miR 594 st2 hsa miR 299 3p hsa miR 539 hsa asg 10883 st1 hsa miR 585 hsa miR 493 5p hsa asg 12964 st2 hsa asg 4557 st2 hsa asg 10674 st1 hsa asg 14230 st1 hsa asg 9681 st1 hsa miR 628 hsa asg 13237 st1 hsa asg 13230 st2 hsa miR 493 3p hsa miR 654 hsa asg 33 st1 hsa asg 8067 st2 hsa asg 11199 st2 hsa asg 12346 st2 hsa asg 11883 st1 hsa miR102 st2 hsa asg 2027 st1 hsa asg 3145 st1 hsa asg 7465 st2 hsa asg 3376 st1 hsa cand283 st1 hsa asg 2301 st2 hsa cand207 st1 hsa miR 598 hsa asg 10278 st2 hsa asg 11181 st1 hsa asg 7023 st2 hsa asg 3597 st2 hsa asg 5304 st1 hsa cand720 st1 hsa asg 13308 st2 hsa asg 3038 st2 hsa asg 13966 st2 hsa asg 13189 st1 hsa asg 11938 st1 hsa asg 5740 st2 hsa asg 8477 st1 hsa asg 12325 st2 hsa asg 12356 st1 hsa asg 6758 st1 hsa asg 522 st1 hsa asg 4564 st2 hsa asg 6951 st2 hsa asg 9920 st1 hsa asg 13613 st2 hsa miR 184 hsa miR 503 hsa miR 485 5p hsa miR 494 hsa miR 504 hsa miR 211 hsa miR 99b hsa miR 499 hsa miR 422b hsa miR 338 hsa miR 422a hsa miR 331 hsa miR 489 hsa miR 324 5p hsa miR 151 hsa miR 17 3p hsa miR 340 and or hsa miR 194 or complement thereof relative to normal cervix tissue is indicative of a cancerous condition or tissue. In other aspects the increased or upregulation of hsa asg 11688 st1 hsa miR 18b hsa miR 18a hsa asg 3711 st2 hsa miR 183 hsa asg 2919 st1 hsa asg 924 st1 and or hsa cand317 st1 or complement thereof relative to normal cervix tissue is indicative of a cancerous condition or cancerous tissue.

In yet still further aspects of the invention the reduced expression or down regulation of hsa let 7d hsa let 7e hsa miR 100 hsa miR 101 hsa miR 106b hsa miR 10b hsa miR 125a 5p hsa miR 125b 2 hsa miR 126 hsa miR 127 3p hsa miR 129 3p hsa miR 135a hsa miR 136 hsa miR 136 hsa miR 139 5p hsa miR 140 3p hsa miR 140 5p hsa miR 141 hsa miR 142 3p hsa miR 143 hsa miR 144 hsa miR 144 hsa miR 145 hsa miR 146b 5p hsa miR 151 3p hsa miR 154 hsa miR 15b hsa miR 17 hsa miR 181c hsa miR 181d hsa miR 183 hsa miR 193a 5p hsa miR 195 hsa miR 197 hsa miR 199a 5p hsa miR 199b 3p hsa miR 199b 5p hsa miR 20a hsa miR 212 hsa miR 214 hsa miR 24 1 hsa miR 26b hsa miR 28 3p hsa miR 28 5p hsa miR 29a hsa miR 29b 1 hsa miR 29b 2 hsa miR 29c hsa miR 30a hsa miR 30a hsa miR 30b hsa miR 30c 2 hsa miR 32 hsa miR 330 3p hsa miR 337 3p hsa miR 337 5p hsa miR 345 hsa miR 361 5p hsa miR 374a hsa miR 374b hsa miR 374b hsa miR 375 hsa miR 376b hsa miR 376c hsa miR 377 hsa miR 410 hsa miR 424 hsa miR 425 hsa miR 431 hsa miR 450a hsa miR 451 hsa miR 455 3p hsa miR 455 5p hsa miR 483 3p hsa miR 486 5p hsa miR 488 hsa miR 490 3p hsa miR 499 5p hsa miR 501 5p hsa miR 505 hsa miR 512 3p hsa miR 513c hsa miR 517 hsa miR 542 3p hsa miR 543 hsa miR 574 3p hsa miR 602 hsa miR 628 5p hsa miR 629 hsa miR 630 hsa miR 650 hsa miR 654 3p hsa miR 654 5p hsa miR 655 hsa miR 656 hsa miR 744 hsa miR 766 hsa miR 768 3p hsa miR 873 hsa miR 885 5p hsa miR 886 3p hsa miR 886 5p hsa miR 889 hsa miR 93 hsa miR 940 hsa miR 99a and or hsa miR 99b or complement thereof relative to normal cervix tissue is indicative of a cancerous condition or tissue. In other aspects the increased or upregulation of hsa miR 31 hsa miR 96 hsa miR 21 and or hsa miR 944 or complement thereof relative to normal cervix tissue is indicative of a cancerous condition or cancerous cells or cancerous tissue.

In certain aspects the expression of one or more of hsa miR 1 hsa miR 15b hsa miR 133a hsa miR 143 hsa miR 205 hsa miR 21 hsa miR 204 hsa miR 195 hsa miR 100 hsa miR 99a hsa miR 368 and or hsa miR 183 or complement thereof including various combinations thereof are assessed to determine if a target sample is cancerous. In other aspects hsa miR 16 can be used as reference. Embodiments of the invention include analysis of miR expression by amplification assays. In certain aspects the PCR assay is quantitative PCR and in particular real time quantitative reverse transcription PCR qRT PCR .

In yet still further aspects of the invention the methods for diagnosing a condition in a patient comprise measuring an expression profile of one or more miRNAs in a cervix sample from the patient suspected of having a cancerous condition e.g. cervical squamous cell carcinoma wherein the difference between the expression profile in the sample from the patient and an expression profile of normal tissue or a reference tissue is indicative of a cancerous disease or condition wherein the miRNA is one or more of hsa miR 1 hsa miR 100 hsa miR 133a hsa miR 134 hsa miR 143 hsa miR 154 hsa miR 182 hsa miR 183 hsa miR 195 hsa miR 204 hsa miR 205 hsa miR 21 hsa miR 218 hsa miR 224 hsa miR 299 5p hsa miR 31 hsa miR 368 hsa miR 376a hsa miR 424 hsa miR 99a ambi miR 7029 hsa miR 497 ambi miR 7101 hsa miR 133b hsa miR 455 hsa asg 5021 st1 hsa asg 13254 st1 hsa asg 14176 st1 hsa miR 487b hsa miR 411 hsa miR 574 hsa miR 542 5p hsa asg 5617 st1 hsa asg 14172 st1 hsa asg 13304 st2 hsa asg 13297 st1 hsa miR157 st2 hsa cand317 st1 hsa miR 329 hsa asg 10202 st2 hsa miR 369 5p hsa asg 13284 st1 hsa asg 9687 st1 hsa miR 433 hsa miR 565 hsa asg 562 st1 hsa asg 279 st2 hsa asg 8411 st2 hsa asg 7472 st2 hsa asg 13279 st1 hsa miR 487a hsa cand206 st1 hsa cand345 st1 hsa asg 9696 st1 hsa miR 485 3p hsa asg 13166 st2 hsa miR 594 st2 hsa miR 299 3p hsa asg 924 st1 hsa miR 539 hsa asg 10883 st1 hsa miR 184 hsa miR 503 hsa miR 485 5p hsa miR 494 hsa miR 504 hsa miR 211 hsa miR 99b or a complement thereof.

In certain aspects of the invention the methods for diagnosing a condition in a patient comprise measuring an expression profile of one or more miRNAs in a cervix sample from the patient suspected of having a precancerous condition e.g. cervical squamous intraepithelial lesion SIL also known as cervical intraepithelial neoplasias wherein the difference between the expression profile in the sample from the patient and an expression profile of normal tissue or a reference is indicative of a disease or condition wherein the miRNA is one or more of hsa miR 1 hsa miR 133a hsa miR 124a hsa miR 187 hsa miR 204 hsa miR 145 hsa miR 143 hsa miR 325 hsa miR 500 hsa miR 196a hsa miR 125a hsa miR 376a hsa miR 505 hsa miR 100 hsa miR 99a hsa miR 141 hsa miR 200a ambi miR 7029 hsa miR 223 hsa miR 205 hsa miR 146a hsa miR 429 hsa miR 200b hsa miR 182 hsa miR 142 5p hsa miR 203 hsa miR 21 hsa miR 31 or hsa miR 513 or complement thereof. In certain aspects decreased expression in a patient sample of hsa miR 1 hsa miR 133a hsa miR 124a hsa miR 187 hsa miR 204 hsa miR 145 hsa miR 143 hsa miR 325 hsa miR 500 hsa miR 196a hsa miR 125a hsa miR 376a hsa miR 505 hsa miR 100 and or hsa miR 99a or complements thereof are indicative of SIL. Increased expression of hsa miR 141 hsa miR 200a ambi miR 7029 hsa miR 233 hsa miR 205 hsa miR 146a hsa miR 429 hsa miR 200b hsa miR 182 hsa miR 142 5p hsa miR 203 hsa miR 21 hsa miR 513 and or hsa miR 31 can be indicative of SIL.

Other embodiments of the invention use the cycle threshold Ct values to distinguish between pre cancerous or cancerous tissue and normal tissues. Ct values may be determined for one or more of the miRNA listed in Table 1 or their complements. In certain aspects the Ct values for miR 1 miR 21 or both miR 1 and miR 21 can be used to distinguish between pre cancerous or cancerous cervical samples or tissues and normal or non cancerous tissues.

A sample may be taken from a patient having or suspected of having a disease or pathological condition. A sample may also comprise nucleic acids or RNA isolated from a tissue or cell sample from a patient. In certain aspects the sample can be but is not limited to tissue e.g. biopsy particularly fine needle biopsy blood serum plasma or cervical samples e.g. pap smear or punch biopsy . The sample can be fresh frozen fixed e.g. formalin fixed or embedded e.g. paraffin embedded tissues or cells. In a particular aspect the sample is a cervical sample or nucleic acid or RNA isolated therefrom.

Methods of the invention can be used to diagnose or assess a pathological condition. In certain aspect the condition is a non cancerous condition such as pre cancerous cervical lesion. In other aspects the condition is a cancerous condition such as cervical cancer.

The methods can further comprise one or more steps including a obtaining a sample from the patient b isolating nucleic acids from the sample c labeling the nucleic acids isolated from the sample and d hybridizing the labeled nucleic acids to one or more probes or primers. Nucleic acids of the invention include one or more nucleic acid comprising at least one segment having a sequence or complementary sequence of one or more of the miRNA sequences in Table 1. In certain aspects the nucleic acids identify one or more miRNAs listed in Table 1. Nucleic acids of the invention are typically coupled to a support. Such supports are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and include but are not limited to glass plastic metal or latex. In particular aspects of the invention the support can be planar or in the form of a bead or other geometric shapes or configurations.

Certain embodiments of the invention include determining expression of one or more miRNA by using an amplification assay or a hybridization assay a variety of which are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. In certain aspects an amplification assay can be a quantitative amplification assay such as quantitative RT PCR or the like. In still further aspects a hybridization assay can include in situ hybridization array hybridization assays or solution hybridization assays.

Aspects of the invention can be used to diagnose or assess a patient s condition. For example the methods can be used to screen for a pathological condition assess prognosis of a pathological condition stage a pathological condition or assess response of a pathological condition to therapy.

Embodiments of the invention concern nucleic acids that perform the activities of or inhibit endogenous miRNAs when introduced into cells. In certain aspects nucleic acids are synthetic or non synthetic miRNA. Sequence specific miRNA inhibitors can be used to inhibit sequentially or in combination the activities of one or more endogenous miRNAs in cells as well those genes and associated pathways modulated by the endogenous miRNA.

The present invention concerns in some embodiments short nucleic acid molecules that function as miRNAs or as inhibitors of miRNA in a cell. The term short refers to a length of a single polynucleotide that is 5 10 15 20 25 50 100 or 150 nucleotides or fewer including all integers or range derivable there between.

The present invention also concerns kits containing compositions of the invention or compositions to implement methods of the invention. In some embodiments kits can be used to evaluate one or more miRNA molecules. In certain embodiments a kit contains contains at least or contains at most 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 100 200 300 400 500 or more miRNA probes miRNA molecules or miRNA inhibitors or any range and combination derivable therein. In some embodiments there are kits for evaluating or modulating miRNA activity in a cell.

Kits may comprise components which may be individually packaged or placed in a container such as a tube bottle vial syringe or other suitable container means.

Individual components may also be provided in a kit in concentrated amounts in some embodiments a component is provided individually in the same concentration as it would be in a solution with other components. Concentrations of components may be provided as 1 2 5 10 or 20 or more.

Kits for using miRNA probes or primers synthetic miRNAs nonsynthetic miRNAs and or miRNA inhibitors of the invention for therapeutic prognostic or diagnostic applications are also included as part of the invention. Specifically contemplated are any such molecules corresponding to any miRNA reported to influence biological activity such as those discussed herein.

In certain aspects negative and or positive control synthetic miRNAs and or miRNA inhibitors are included in some kit embodiments. The control molecules can be used to verify transfection efficiency and or control for transfection induced changes in cells.

It is contemplated that any method or composition described herein can be implemented with respect to any other method or composition described herein and that different embodiments may be combined. It is specifically contemplated that any methods and compositions discussed herein with respect to miRNA molecules or miRNA may be implemented with respect to synthetic miRNAs to the extent the synthetic miRNA is exposed to the proper conditions to allow it to become a mature miRNA under physiological circumstances. The claims originally filed are contemplated to cover claims that are multiply dependent on any filed claim or combination of filed claims.

It is also contemplated that any one or more of the miRNA listed particularly in Table 1 may be specifically excluded from any particular set or subset of miRNA or nucleic acid.

Any embodiment of the invention involving specific miRNAs by name is contemplated also to cover embodiments involving miRNAs whose sequences are at least 70 75 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 identical to the mature sequence of the specified miRNA. This also includes the various fragments of these miRNA or nucleic acid sequences.

Embodiments of the invention include kits for analysis of a pathological sample by assessing miRNA profile for a sample comprising in suitable container means two or more miRNA probes wherein the miRNA probes detect one or more of the miRNAs described in Table 1. The kit can further comprise reagents for labeling miRNA in the sample. The kit may also include the labeling reagents include at least one amine modified nucleotide poly A polymerase and poly A polymerase buffer. Labeling reagents can include an amine reactive dye.

Other embodiments of the invention are discussed throughout this application. Any embodiment discussed with respect to one aspect of the invention applies to other aspects of the invention as well and vice versa. The embodiments in the Example section are understood to be embodiments of the invention that are applicable to all aspects of the invention.

It will be understood that shorthand notations are employed such that a generic description of an miRNA refers to any of its gene family members distinguished by a number or sequence similarity unless otherwise indicated. It is understood by those of skill in the art that a gene family refers to a group of genes having the same or similar miRNA coding sequence. Typically members of a gene family are identified by a number following the initial designation however some family members are identified by sequence similarity for example see the various miRNA databases. For example miR 16 1 and miR 16 2 are members of the miR 16 gene family and mir 7 refers to miR 7 1 miR 7 2 and miR 7 3. Moreover unless otherwise indicated a shorthand notation refers to related miRNAs distinguished by a letter . Thus let 7 for example refers to let 7a 1 let7 a 2 let 7b let 7c let 7d let 7e let 7f 1 and let 7f 2. Exceptions to this shorthand notations will be otherwise identified.

It will be understand that the term providing an agent is used to include administering the agent to a patient.

The terms inhibiting reducing or prevention or any variation of these terms when used in the claims and or the specification includes any measurable decrease or complete inhibition to achieve a desired result.

The use of the word a or an when used in conjunction with the term comprising in the claims and or the specification may mean one but it is also consistent with the meaning of one or more at least one and one or more than one. 

It is contemplated that any embodiment discussed herein can be implemented with respect to any method or composition of the invention and vice versa. Furthermore compositions and kits of the invention can be used to achieve methods of the invention.

Throughout this application the term about is used to indicate that a value includes the standard deviation of error for the device or method being employed to determine the value.

The use of the term or in the claims is used to mean and or unless explicitly indicated to refer to alternatives only or the alternatives are mutually exclusive although the disclosure supports a definition that refers to only alternatives and and or. 

As used in this specification and claim s the words comprising and any form of comprising such as comprise and comprises having and any form of having such as have and has including and any form of including such as includes and include or containing and any form of containing such as contains and contain are inclusive or open ended and do not exclude additional unrecited elements or method steps.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating specific embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

The present invention is directed to compositions and methods relating to preparation and characterization of miRNAs as well as use of miRNAs for therapeutic prognostic and diagnostic applications particularly those methods and compositions related to assessing and or identifying cervical diseases and conditions.

As mentioned above cervical cancer is the second most common cause of cancer in women worldwide Pisani et al. 2002 Parkin et al. 2005 . About 470 000 new cases are diagnosed and approximately 230 000 women die of cervical cancer every year Pisani et al. 1999 . While the majority 80 of these new cases and deaths occur in developing countries it is estimated that approximately 3 700 women will die from invasive cervical cancer in the United States in 2007 Jemal et al. 2007 .

Cytological examination of cervical smears with Papanicolaou staining Pap smear is the screening method universally accepted for early detection of cervical cancer and its precursors. Pap smear screening programs have been very effective in reducing cervical cancer incidence and have reduced mortality rates by 60 among women aged 30 and over. However even in those countries where these programs are routinely used cervical cancer is still a significant public health problem. The Bethesda system categorizes Pap smear results as negative ASC US atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance ASCU H atypical squamous cells cannot exclude high grade lesion LSIL low grade squamous intraepithelial lesion HSIL high grade intraepithelial lesion and carcinoma. While guidelines and protocols for the management of women diagnosed with ASC H LSIL HSIL and cancer are well established the ASC US entity is a significant problem for clinicians. The morphological criteria for ASC US are suggestive resulting in great variations in reported rates for ASC US between laboratories. Approximately 3 million Pap smears are classified as ASC US every year in the US and the predictive value is very low. Although most Pap tests indicating ASC US will revert spontaneously it is estimated that in 5 to 15 of cases ASC US Pap tests might already correspond to high grade SIL at histology. The ASC US category is thus a source of confusion to both physicians and patients due to uncertainties that can lead to either the risk of false positive diagnosis and unnecessary treatment or the risk of missing bona fide lesions.

Epidemiological and molecular studies have demonstrated that human papillomaviruses HPVs are the etiological agents of the vast majority 99.7 of cervical cancers and their intraepithelial precursors Pisani et al. 2002 Parkin et al. 2005 zur Hausen 2002 . About a dozen HPV types including types 16 18 31 and 45 are called high risk types because they can lead to cervical cancer as well as anal cancer vulvar cancer and penile cancer. Several types of HPV particularly type 16 have been found to be associated with oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma a form of head and neck cancer. HPV induced cancers often have viral sequences integrated into the cellular DNA. Some of the HPV early genes such as E6 and E7 are known to act as oncogenes that promote tumor growth and malignant transformation.

MicroRNA molecules miRNAs are generally 21 to 22 nucleotides in length though lengths of 19 and up to 23 nucleotides have been reported. The miRNAs are each processed from a longer precursor RNA molecule precursor miRNA . Precursor miRNAs are transcribed from non protein encoding genes. The precursor miRNAs have two regions of complementarity that enables them to form a stem loop or fold back like structure which is cleaved in animals by a ribonuclease III like nuclease enzyme called Dicer. The processed miRNA is typically a portion of the stem.

The processed miRNA also referred to as mature miRNA become part of a large complex to down regulate a particular target gene. Examples of animal miRNAs include those that imperfectly basepair with the target which halts translation Olsen et al. 1999 Seggerson et al. 2002 . siRNA molecules also are processed by Dicer but from a long double stranded RNA molecule. siRNAs are not naturally found in animal cells but they can direct the sequence specific cleavage of an mRNA target through a RNA induced silencing complex RISC Denli et al. 2003 .

The nucleic acid molecules are typically synthetic. The term synthetic means the nucleic acid molecule is isolated and not identical in sequence and or chemical structure to a naturally occurring nucleic acid molecule such as an endogenous precursor miRNA or miRNA molecule. While in some embodiments nucleic acids of the invention do not have an entire sequence that is identical to a sequence of a naturally occurring nucleic acid such molecules may encompass all or part of a naturally occurring sequence. It is contemplated however that a synthetic nucleic acid administered to a cell may subsequently be modified or altered in the cell such that its structure or sequence is the same or similar as non synthetic or naturally occurring nucleic acid such as a mature miRNA sequence. For example a synthetic nucleic acid may have a sequence that differs from the sequence of a precursor miRNA but that sequence may be altered once in a cell to be the same as an endogenous processed miRNA. The term isolated means that the nucleic acid molecules of the invention are initially separated from different in terms of sequence or structure and unwanted nucleic acid molecules such that a population of isolated nucleic acids is at least about 90 homogenous and may be at least about 95 96 97 98 99 or 100 homogenous with respect to other polynucleotide molecules. In many embodiments of the invention a nucleic acid is isolated by virtue of it having been synthesized in vitro separate from endogenous nucleic acids in a cell. It will be understood however that isolated nucleic acids may be subsequently mixed or pooled together in a variety of combinations.

In certain aspects synthetic miRNA of the invention are RNA or RNA analogs. miRNA inhibitors may be DNA or RNA or analogs thereof. miRNA and miRNA inhibitors of the invention are typically synthetic nucleic acids. 

In some embodiments there is a recombinant or synthetic miRNA having a length of between 17 and 130 residues. The present invention concerns miRNA molecules that are are at least or are at most 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 116 117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124 125 126 127 128 129 130 140 145 150 160 170 180 190 200 or more residues in length including any integer or any range derivable therein be it synthetic or non synthetic.

In certain embodiments synthetic miRNA have a an miRNA region whose sequence from 5 to 3 is identical to all or a segment of a mature miRNA sequence and b a complementary region whose sequence from 5 to 3 is between 60 and 100 complementary to the miRNA sequence. The term miRNA region refers to a region on the synthetic miRNA that is at least 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 identical including all integers there between to all or part of the sequence of a mature naturally occurring miRNA sequence. In certain embodiments the miRNA region is or is at least 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 99.1 99.2 99.3 99.4 99.5 99.6 99.7 99.8 99.9 or 100 identical to the sequence of a naturally occurring miRNA.

The term complementary region refers to a region of a synthetic miRNA that is or is at least 60 complementary to a corresponding naturally occurring miRNA sequence. The complementary region is or is at least 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 99.1 99.2 99.3 99.4 99.5 99.6 99.7 99.8 99.9 or 100 complementary to its corresponding naturally occurring miRNA or any range derivable therein. With single polynucleotide sequences there can be a hairpin loop structure as a result of chemical bonding between the miRNA region and the complementary region. In other embodiments the complementary region is on a different nucleic acid molecule than the miRNA region in which case the complementary region is on the complementary strand and the miRNA region is on the active or functional strand.

In other embodiments of the invention there are synthetic nucleic acids that are miRNA inhibitors. An miRNA inhibitor is between about 17 to 25 nucleotides in length and comprises a 5 to 3 sequence that is at least 90 complementary to the 5 to 3 sequence of a mature miRNA. In certain embodiments an miRNA inhibitor molecule is 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 or 25 nucleotides in length or any range derivable therein. Moreover an miRNA inhibitor has a sequence from 5 to 3 that is or is at least 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 99.1 99.2 99.3 99.4 99.5 99.6 99.7 99.8 99.9 or 100 complementary or any range derivable therein to the 5 to 3 sequence of a mature miRNA particularly a mature naturally occurring miRNA. One of skill in the art could use a portion of a sequence that is complementary to the sequence of a mature miRNA as the sequence for an miRNA inhibitor. Moreover that portion of a sequence can be altered so that it is still 90 complementary to the sequence of a mature miRNA.

In some embodiments of the invention a synthetic miRNA contains one or more design elements. These design elements include but are not limited to i a replacement group for the phosphate or hydroxyl of the nucleotide at the 5 terminus of the complementary region ii one or more sugar modifications in the first or last 1 to 6 residues of the complementary region or iii noncomplementarity between one or more nucleotides in the last 1 to 5 residues at the 3 end of the complementary region and the corresponding nucleotides of the miRNA region.

In certain embodiments a synthetic miRNA has a nucleotide at its 5 end of the complementary region in which the phosphate and or hydroxyl group has been replaced with another chemical group referred to as the replacement design . In some cases the phosphate group is replaced while in others the hydroxyl group has been replaced. In particular embodiments the replacement group is biotin an amine group a lower alkylamine group an acetyl group 2 O Me 2 oxygen methyl DMTO 4 4 dimethoxytrityl with oxygen fluorescein a thiol or acridine though other replacement groups are well known to those of skill in the art and can be used as well. This design element can also be used with an miRNA inhibitor.

Additional embodiments concern a synthetic miRNA having one or more sugar modifications in the first or last 1 to 6 residues of the complementary region referred to as the sugar replacement design . In certain cases there is one or more sugar modifications in the first 1 2 3 4 5 6 or more residues of the complementary region or any range derivable therein. In additional cases there can be one or more sugar modifications in the last 1 2 3 4 5 6 or more residues of the complementary region or any range derivable therein. It will be understood that the terms first and last are with respect to the order of residues from the 5 end to the 3 end of the region. In particular embodiments the sugar modification is a 2 O Me modification. In further embodiments there is one or more sugar modifications in the first or last 2 to 4 residues of the complementary region or the first or last 4 to 6 residues of the complementary region. This design element can also be used with an miRNA inhibitor. Thus an miRNA inhibitor can have this design element and or a replacement group on the nucleotide at the 5 terminus as discussed above.

In other embodiments of the invention there is a synthetic miRNA in which one or more nucleotides in the last 1 to 5 residues at the 3 end of the complementary region are not complementary to the corresponding nucleotides of the miRNA region noncomplementarity referred to as the noncomplementarity design . The noncomplementarity may be in the last 1 2 3 4 and or 5 residues of the complementary miRNA. In certain embodiments there is noncomplementarity with at least 2 nucleotides in the complementary region.

It is contemplated that synthetic miRNA of the invention have one or more of the replacement sugar modification or noncomplementarity designs. In certain cases synthetic RNA molecules have two of them while in others these molecules have all three designs in place.

The miRNA region and the complementary region may be on the same or separate polynucleotides. In cases in which they are contained on or in the same polynucleotide the miRNA molecule will be considered a single polynucleotide. In embodiments in which the different regions are on separate polynucleotides the synthetic miRNA will be considered to be comprised of two polynucleotides.

When the RNA molecule is a single polynucleotide there is a linker region between the miRNA region and the complementary region. In some embodiments the single polynucleotide is capable of forming a hairpin loop structure as a result of bonding between the miRNA region and the complementary region. The linker constitutes the hairpin loop. It is contemplated that in some embodiments the linker region is is at least or is at most 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 or 40 residues in length or any range derivable therein. In certain embodiments the linker is between 3 and 30 residues inclusive in length.

In addition to having an miRNA region and a complementary region there may be flanking sequences as well at either the 5 or 3 end of the region. In some embodiments there is or is at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 nucleotides or more or any range derivable therein flanking one or both sides of these regions.

The present invention concerns miRNAs that can be labeled or amplified used in array analysis or employed in diagnostic therapeutic or prognostic applications particularly those related to diseases and conditions of the cervix. The RNA may have been endogenously produced by a cell or been synthesized or produced chemically or recombinantly. They may be isolated and or purified. The term miRNA unless otherwise indicated refers to the processed RNA after it has been cleaved from its precursor. Table 1 indicates which SEQ ID NO correspond to a mature miRNA sequence. The name of the miRNA is often abbreviated and referred to without a hsa mmu or rno prefix and will be understood as such depending on the context. Unless otherwise indicated miRNAs referred to in the application are human sequences identified as mir X or let X where X is a number and or letter.

In certain embodiments a miRNA is designated with a 5P or 3P suffix. 5P indicates that the mature miRNA derives from the 5 end of the precursor and a corresponding 3P indicates that it derives from the 3 end of the precursor as described on the world wide web at sanger.ac.uk. Moreover in some embodiments a miRNA is used that does not correspond to a known human miRNA. It is contemplated that these non human miRNA probes may be used in embodiments of the invention or that there may exist a human miRNA that is homologous to the non human miRNA. While the invention is not limited to human miRNA in certain embodiments miRNA from human cells or a human biological sample is evaluated. In other embodiments any mammalian cell biological sample or preparation thereof may be employed.

In some embodiments of the invention methods and compositions involving miRNA may concern miRNA and or other nucleic acids. Nucleic acids may be be at least or be at most 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 109 110 120 130 140 150 160 170 180 190 200 210 220 230 240 250 260 270 280 290 300 310 320 330 340 350 360 370 380 390 400 410 420 430 440 441 450 460 470 480 490 500 510 520 530 540 550 560 570 580 590 600 610 620 630 640 650 660 670 680 690 700 710 720 730 740 750 760 770 780 790 800 810 820 830 840 850 860 870 880 890 900 910 920 930 940 950 960 970 980 990 or 1000 nucleotides or any range derivable therein in length. Such lengths cover the lengths of processed miRNA miRNA probes precursor miRNA miRNA containing vectors control nucleic acids and other probes and primers. In many embodiments miRNA sequences are 19 24 nucleotides in length while miRNA probes are 19 35 nucleotides in length depending on the length of the processed miRNA and any flanking regions added. miRNA precursors are generally between 62 and 110 nucleotides in humans.

Nucleic acids and mimetics thereof of the invention may have regions of identity or complementarity to another nucleic acid. It is contemplated that the region of complementarity or identity can be at least 5 contiguous residues though it is specifically contemplated that the region is is at least or is at most 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 110 120 130 140 150 160 170 180 190 200 210 220 230 240 250 260 270 280 290 300 310 320 330 340 350 360 370 380 390 400 410 420 430 440 441 450 460 470 480 490 500 510 520 530 540 550 560 570 580 590 600 610 620 630 640 650 660 670 680 690 700 710 720 730 740 750 760 770 780 790 800 810 820 830 840 850 860 870 880 890 900 910 920 930 940 950 960 970 980 990 or 1000 contiguous nucleotides. It is further understood that the length of complementarity within a precursor miRNA or between a miRNA probe and a miRNA or a miRNA gene are such lengths. Moreover the complementarity may be expressed as a percentage meaning that the complementarity between a nucleic acid and its target is 90 or greater over the length of the nucleic acid. In some embodiments complementarity is or is at least 90 95 or 100 . In particular such lengths may be applied to any nucleic acid comprising a nucleic acid sequence identified in any of SEQ ID NO 1 through SEQ ID NO 562 or any other sequence disclosed herein. Each of these SEQ ID NOs is disclosed herein. The commonly used name of the miRNA is given with its identifying source in the prefix for example hsa for human sequences and the processed miRNA sequence. Moreover a lowercase letter in the table below may or may not be lowercase for example hsa mir 130b can also be referred to as miR 130B. The term miRNA probe refers to a nucleic acid probe that can identify a particular miRNA or structurally related miRNAs.

It is understood that a miRNA is derived from genomic sequences or a gene. In this respect the term gene is used for simplicity to refer to the genomic sequence encoding the precursor miRNA for a given miRNA. However embodiments of the invention may involve genomic sequences of a miRNA that are involved in its expression such as a promoter or other regulatory sequences.

The term recombinant may be used and this generally refers to a molecule that has been manipulated in vitro or that is a replicated or expressed product of such a molecule.

The term nucleic acid is well known in the art. A nucleic acid as used herein will generally refer to a molecule one or more strands of DNA RNA or a derivative or analog thereof comprising a nucleobase. A nucleobase includes for example a naturally occurring purine or pyrimidine base found in DNA e.g. an adenine A a guanine G a thymine T or a cytosine C or RNA e.g. an A a G an uracil U or a C . The term nucleic acid encompasses the terms oligonucleotide and polynucleotide each as a subgenus of the term nucleic acid. 

The term miRNA generally refers to a single stranded molecule but in specific embodiments molecules implemented in the invention will also encompass a region or an additional strand that is partially between 10 and 50 complementary across length of strand substantially greater than 50 but less than 100 complementary across length of strand or fully complementary to another region of the same single stranded molecule or to another nucleic acid. Thus nucleic acids may encompass a molecule that comprises one or more complementary or self complementary strand s or complement s of a particular sequence comprising a molecule. For example precursor miRNA may have a self complementary region which is up to 100 complementary. miRNA probes or nucleic acids of the invention can include can be or can be at least 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 99 or 100 complementary to their target.

As used herein hybridization hybridizes or capable of hybridizing is understood to mean the forming of a double or triple stranded molecule or a molecule with partial double or triple stranded nature. The term anneal as used herein is synonymous with hybridize. The term hybridization hybridize s or capable of hybridizing encompasses hybridization under stringent condition s or high stringency and low stringency or low stringency condition s . 

As used herein stringent condition s or high stringency are those conditions that allow hybridization between or within one or more nucleic acid strand s containing complementary sequence s but preclude hybridization of random sequences. Stringent conditions tolerate little if any mismatch between a nucleic acid and a target strand. Such conditions are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and are preferred for applications requiring high selectivity. Non limiting applications include isolating a nucleic acid such as a gene or a nucleic acid segment thereof or detecting at least one specific mRNA transcript or a nucleic acid segment thereof and the like.

Stringent conditions may comprise low salt and or high temperature conditions such as provided by about 0.02 M to about 0.5 M NaCl at temperatures of about 42 C. to about 70 C. It is understood that the temperature and ionic strength of a desired stringency are determined in part by the length of the particular nucleic acid s the length and nucleobase content of the target sequence s the charge composition of the nucleic acid s and to the presence or concentration of formamide tetramethylammonium chloride or other solvent s in a hybridization mixture.

It is also understood that these ranges compositions and conditions for hybridization are mentioned by way of non limiting examples only and that the desired stringency for a particular hybridization reaction is often determined empirically by comparison to one or more positive or negative controls. Depending on the application envisioned it is preferred to employ varying conditions of hybridization to achieve varying degrees of selectivity of a nucleic acid towards a target sequence. In a non limiting example identification or isolation of a related target nucleic acid that does not hybridize to a nucleic acid under stringent conditions may be achieved by hybridization at low temperature and or high ionic strength. Such conditions are termed low stringency or low stringency conditions and non limiting examples of low stringency include hybridization performed at about 0.15 M to about 0.9 M NaCl at a temperature range of about 20 C. to about 50 C. Of course it is within the skill of one in the art to further modify the low or high stringency conditions to suite a particular application.

As used herein a nucleobase refers to a heterocyclic base such as for example a naturally occurring nucleobase i.e. an A T G C or U found in at least one naturally occurring nucleic acid i.e. DNA and RNA and naturally or non naturally occurring derivative s and analogs of such a nucleobase. A nucleobase generally can form one or more hydrogen bonds anneal or hybridize with at least one naturally occurring nucleobase in manner that may substitute for naturally occurring nucleobase pairing e.g. the hydrogen bonding between A and T G and C and A and U .

 Purine and or pyrimidine nucleobase s encompass naturally occurring purine and or pyrimidine nucleobases and also derivative s and analog s thereof including but not limited to those a purine or pyrimidine substituted by one or more of an alkyl carboxyalkyl amino hydroxyl halogen i.e. fluoro chloro bromo or iodo thiol or alkylthiol moiety. Preferred alkyl e.g. alkyl carboxyalkyl etc. moieties comprise of from about 1 about 2 about 3 about 4 about 5 to about 6 carbon atoms. Other non limiting examples of a purine or pyrimidine include a deazapurine a 2 6 diaminopurine a 5 fluorouracil a xanthine a hypoxanthine a 8 bromoguanine a 8 chloroguanine a bromothymine a 8 aminoguanine a 8 hydroxyguanine a 8 methylguanine a 8 thioguanine an azaguanine a 2 aminopurine a 5 ethylcytosine a 5 methylcyosine a 5 bromouracil a 5 ethyluracil a 5 iodouracil a 5 chlorouracil a 5 propyluracil a thiouracil a 2 methyladenine a methylthioadenine a N N diemethyladenine an azaadenines a 8 bromoadenine a 8 hydroxyadenine a 6 hydroxyaminopurine a 6 thiopurine a 4 6 aminohexyl cytosine and the like. Other examples are well known to those of skill in the art.

A nucleobase may be comprised in a nucleoside or nucleotide using any chemical or natural synthesis method described herein or known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such nucleobase may be labeled or it may be part of a molecule that is labeled and contains the nucleobase.

As used herein a nucleoside refers to an individual chemical unit comprising a nucleobase covalently attached to a nucleobase linker moiety. A non limiting example of a nucleobase linker moiety is a sugar comprising 5 carbon atoms i.e. a 5 carbon sugar including but not limited to a deoxyribose a ribose an arabinose or a derivative or an analog of a 5 carbon sugar. Non limiting examples of a derivative or an analog of a 5 carbon sugar include a 2 fluoro 2 deoxyribose or a carbocyclic sugar where a carbon is substituted for an oxygen atom in the sugar ring.

Different types of covalent attachment s of a nucleobase to a nucleobase linker moiety are known in the art. By way of non limiting example a nucleoside comprising a purine i.e. A or G or a 7 deazapurine nucleobase typically covalently attaches the 9 position of a purine or a 7 deazapurine to the 1 position of a 5 carbon sugar. In another non limiting example a nucleoside comprising a pyrimidine nucleobase i.e. C T or U typically covalently attaches a 1 position of a pyrimidine to a 1 position of a 5 carbon sugar Kornberg and Baker 1992 .

As used herein a nucleotide refers to a nucleoside further comprising a backbone moiety. A backbone moiety generally covalently attaches a nucleotide to another molecule comprising a nucleotide or to another nucleotide to form a nucleic acid. The backbone moiety in naturally occurring nucleotides typically comprises a phosphorus moiety which is covalently attached to a 5 carbon sugar. The attachment of the backbone moiety typically occurs at either the 3 or 5 position of the 5 carbon sugar. However other types of attachments are known in the art particularly when a nucleotide comprises derivatives or analogs of a naturally occurring 5 carbon sugar or phosphorus moiety.

A nucleic acid may comprise or be composed entirely of a derivative or analog of a nucleobase a nucleobase linker moiety and or backbone moiety that may be present in a naturally occurring nucleic acid. RNA with nucleic acid analogs may also be labeled according to methods of the invention. As used herein a derivative refers to a chemically modified or altered form of a naturally occurring molecule while the terms mimic or analog refer to a molecule that may or may not structurally resemble a naturally occurring molecule or moiety but possesses similar functions. As used herein a moiety generally refers to a smaller chemical or molecular component of a larger chemical or molecular structure. Nucleobase nucleoside and nucleotide analogs or derivatives are well known in the art and have been described see for example Scheit 1980 incorporated herein by reference .

Additional non limiting examples of nucleosides nucleotides or nucleic acids comprising 5 carbon sugar and or backbone moiety derivatives or analogs include those in U.S. Pat. No. 5 681 947 which describes oligonucleotides comprising purine derivatives that form triple helixes with and or prevent expression of dsDNA U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 652 099 and 5 763 167 which describe nucleic acids incorporating fluorescent analogs of nucleosides found in DNA or RNA particularly for use as fluorescent nucleic acids probes U.S. Pat. No. 5 614 617 which describes oligonucleotide analogs with substitutions on pyrimidine rings that possess enhanced nuclease stability U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 670 663 5 872 232 and 5 859 221 which describe oligonucleotide analogs with modified 5 carbon sugars i.e. modified 2 deoxyfuranosyl moieties used in nucleic acid detection U.S. Pat. No. 5 446 137 which describes oligonucleotides comprising at least one 5 carbon sugar moiety substituted at the 4 position with a substituent other than hydrogen that can be used in hybridization assays U.S. Pat. No. 5 886 165 which describes oligonucleotides with both deoxyribonucleotides with 3 5 internucleotide linkages and ribonucleotides with 2 5 internucleotide linkages U.S. Pat. No. 5 714 606 which describes a modified internucleotide linkage wherein a 3 position oxygen of the internucleotide linkage is replaced by a carbon to enhance the nuclease resistance of nucleic acids U.S. Pat. No. 5 672 697 which describes oligonucleotides containing one or more 5 methylene phosphonate internucleotide linkages that enhance nuclease resistance U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 466 786 and 5 792 847 which describe the linkage of a substituent moiety which may comprise a drug or label to the 2 carbon of an oligonucleotide to provide enhanced nuclease stability and ability to deliver drugs or detection moieties U.S. Pat. No. 5 223 618 which describes oligonucleotide analogs with a 2 or 3 carbon backbone linkage attaching the 4 position and 3 position of adjacent 5 carbon sugar moiety to enhanced cellular uptake resistance to nucleases and hybridization to target RNA U.S. Pat. No. 5 470 967 which describes oligonucleotides comprising at least one sulfamate or sulfamide internucleotide linkage that are useful as nucleic acid hybridization probe U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 378 825 5 777 092 5 623 070 5 610 289 and 5 602 240 which describe oligonucleotides with three or four atom linker moiety replacing phosphodiester backbone moiety used for improved nuclease resistance cellular uptake and regulating RNA expression U.S. Pat. No. 5 858 988 which describes hydrophobic carrier agent attached to the 2 O position of oligonucleotides to enhanced their membrane permeability and stability U.S. Pat. No. 5 214 136 which describes oligonucleotides conjugated to anthraquinone at the 5 terminus that possess enhanced hybridization to DNA or RNA enhanced stability to nucleases U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 922 which describes PNA DNA PNA chimeras wherein the DNA comprises 2 deoxy erythro pentofuranosyl nucleotides for enhanced nuclease resistance binding affinity and ability to activate RNase H and U.S. Pat. No. 5 708 154 which describes RNA linked to a DNA to form a DNA RNA hybrid U.S. Pat. No. 5 728 525 which describes the labeling of nucleoside analogs with a universal fluorescent label.

Additional teachings for nucleoside analogs and nucleic acid analogs are U.S. Pat. No. 5 728 525 which describes nucleoside analogs that are end labeled U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 637 683 6 251 666 L nucleotide substitutions and 5 480 980 7 deaza 2 deoxyguanosine nucleotides and nucleic acid analogs thereof .

Labeling methods and kits of the invention specifically contemplate the use of nucleotides that are both modified for attachment of a label and can be incorporated into a miRNA molecule. Such nucleotides include those that can be labeled with a dye including a fluorescent dye or with a molecule such as biotin. Labeled nucleotides are readily available they can be acquired commercially or they can be synthesized by reactions known to those of skill in the art.

Modified nucleotides for use in the invention are not naturally occurring nucleotides but instead refer to prepared nucleotides that have a reactive moiety on them. Specific reactive functionalities of interest include amino sulfhydryl sulfoxyl aminosulfhydryl azido epoxide isothiocyanate isocyanate anhydride monochlorotriazine dichlorotriazine mono or dihalogen substituted pyridine mono or disubstituted diazine maleimide epoxide aziridine sulfonyl halide acid halide alkyl halide aryl halide alkylsulfonate N hydroxysuccinimide ester imido ester hydrazine azidonitrophenyl azide 3 2 pyridyl dithio propionamide glyoxal aldehyde iodoacetyl cyanomethyl ester p nitrophenyl ester o nitrophenyl ester hydroxypyridine ester carbonyl imidazole and the other such chemical groups. In some embodiments the reactive functionality may be bonded directly to a nucleotide or it may be bonded to the nucleotide through a linking group. The functional moiety and any linker cannot substantially impair the ability of the nucleotide to be added to the miRNA or to be labeled. Representative linking groups include carbon containing linking groups typically ranging from about 2 to 18 usually from about 2 to 8 carbon atoms where the carbon containing linking groups may or may not include one or more heteroatoms e.g. S O N etc. and may or may not include one or more sites of unsaturation. Of particular interest in many embodiments are alkyl linking groups typically lower alkyl linking groups of 1 to 16 usually 1 to 4 carbon atoms where the linking groups may include one or more sites of unsaturation. The functionalized nucleotides or primers used in the above methods of functionalized target generation may be fabricated using known protocols or purchased from commercial vendors e.g. Sigma Roche Ambion Biosearch Technologies and NEN. Functional groups may be prepared according to ways known to those of skill in the art including the representative information found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 404 289 4 405 711 4 337 063 and 5 268 486 and U.K. Patent 1 529 202 which are all incorporated by reference.

Amine modified nucleotides are used in several embodiments of the invention. The amine modified nucleotide is a nucleotide that has a reactive amine group for attachment of the label. It is contemplated that any ribonucleotide G A U or C or deoxyribonucleotide G A T or C can be modified for labeling. Examples include but are not limited to the following modified ribo and deoxyribo nucleotides 5 3 aminoallyl UTP 8 4 amino butyl amino ATP and 8 6 amino butyl amino ATP N6 4 amino butyl ATP N6 6 amino butyl ATP N4 2 2 oxy bis ethylamine CTP N6 6 Amino hexyl ATP 8 6 Amino hexyl amino ATP 5 propargylamino CTP 5 propargylamino UTP 5 3 aminoallyl dUTP 8 4 amino butyl amino dATP and 8 6 amino butyl amino dATP N6 4 amino butyl dATP N6 6 amino butyl dATP N4 2 2 oxy bis ethylamine dCTP N6 6 Amino hexyl dATP 8 6 Amino hexyl amino dATP 5 propargylamino dCTP and 5 propargylamino dUTP. Such nucleotides can be prepared according to methods known to those of skill in the art. Moreover a person of ordinary skill in the art could prepare other nucleotide entities with the same amine modification such as a 5 3 aminoallyl CTP GTP ATP dCTP dGTP dTTP or dUTP in place of a 5 3 aminoallyl UTP.

A nucleic acid may be made or prepared by any technique known to one of ordinary skill in the art such as for example chemical synthesis enzymatic production or biological production. It is specifically contemplated that nucleic acids of the invention are chemically synthesized.

In some embodiments of the invention miRNAs are recovered or isolated from a biological sample. The miRNA may be recombinant or it may be natural or endogenous to the cell produced from the cell s genome . It is contemplated that a biological sample may be treated in a way so as to enhance the recovery of small RNA molecules such as miRNA. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 667 126 describes such methods and it is specifically incorporated by reference herein. Generally methods involve lysing cells with a solution having guanidinium and a detergent.

Alternatively nucleic acid synthesis is performed according to standard methods. See for example Itakura and Riggs 1980 . Additionally U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 704 362 5 221 619 and 5 583 013 each describe various methods of preparing synthetic nucleic acids. Non limiting examples of a synthetic nucleic acid e.g. a synthetic oligonucleotide include a nucleic acid made by in vitro chemically synthesis using phosphotriester phosphite or phosphoramidite chemistry and solid phase techniques such as described in EP 266 032 incorporated herein by reference or via deoxynucleoside H phosphonate intermediates as described by Froehler et al. 1986 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 705 629 each incorporated herein by reference. In the methods of the present invention one or more oligonucleotide may be used. Various different mechanisms of oligonucleotide synthesis have been disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 659 774 4 816 571 5 141 813 5 264 566 4 959 463 5 428 148 5 554 744 5 574 146 5 602 244 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A non limiting example of an enzymatically produced nucleic acid include one produced by enzymes in amplification reactions such as PCR see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 202 and 4 682 195 each incorporated herein by reference or the synthesis of an oligonucleotide described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 645 897 incorporated herein by reference. A non limiting example of a biologically produced nucleic acid includes a recombinant nucleic acid produced i.e. replicated in a living cell such as a recombinant DNA vector replicated in bacteria see for example Sambrook et al. 2001 incorporated herein by reference .

Oligonucleotide synthesis is well known to those of skill in the art. Various different mechanisms of oligonucleotide synthesis have been disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 659 774 4 816 571 5 141 813 5 264 566 4 959 463 5 428 148 5 554 744 5 574 146 5 602 244 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Basically chemical synthesis can be achieved by the diester method the triester method polynucleotides phosphorylase method and by solid phase chemistry. The diester method was the first to be developed to a usable state primarily by Khorana and co workers. Khorana 1979 . The basic step is the joining of two suitably protected deoxynucleotides to form a dideoxynucleotide containing a phosphodiester bond.

The main difference between the diester and triester methods is the presence in the latter of an extra protecting group on the phosphate atoms of the reactants and products Itakura et al. 1975 . Purification s are typically done in chloroform solutions. Other improvements in the method include i the block coupling of trimers and larger oligomers ii the extensive use of high performance liquid chromatography for the purification of both intermediate and final products and iii solid phase synthesis.

Polynucleotide phosphorylase method is an enzymatic method of DNA synthesis that can be used to synthesize many useful oligonucleotides Gillam et al. 1978 Gillam et al. 1979 . Under controlled conditions polynucleotide phosphorylase adds predominantly a single nucleotide to a short oligonucleotide. Chromatographic purification allows the desired single adduct to be obtained. At least a trimer is required to start the procedure and this primer must be obtained by some other method. The polynucleotide phosphorylase method works and has the advantage that the procedures involved are familiar to most biochemists.

Solid phase methods draw on technology developed for the solid phase synthesis of polypeptides it has been possible to attach the initial nucleotide to solid support material and proceed with the stepwise addition of nucleotides. All mixing and washing steps are simplified and the procedure becomes amenable to automation. These syntheses are now routinely carried out using automatic nucleic acid synthesizers.

Phosphoramidite chemistry Beaucage and Lyer 1992 has become by far the most widely used coupling chemistry for the synthesis of oligonucleotides. Phosphoramidite synthesis of oligonucleotides involves activation of nucleoside phosphoramidite monomer precursors by reaction with an activating agent to form activated intermediates followed by sequential addition of the activated intermediates to the growing oligonucleotide chain generally anchored at one end to a suitable solid support to form the oligonucleotide product.

Recombinant methods for producing nucleic acids in a cell are well known to those of skill in the art. These include the use of vectors viral and non viral plasmids cosmids and other vehicles for delivering a nucleic acid to a cell which may be the target cell e.g. a cancer cell or simply a host cell to produce large quantities of the desired RNA molecule . Alternatively such vehicles can be used in the context of a cell free system so long as the reagents for generating the RNA molecule are present. Such methods include those described in Sambrook 2003 Sambrook 2001 and Sambrook 1989 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

In certain embodiments the present invention concerns nucleic acid molecules that are not synthetic. In some embodiments the nucleic acid molecule has a chemical structure of a naturally occurring nucleic acid and a sequence of a naturally occurring nucleic acid such as the exact and entire sequence of a single stranded primary miRNA see Lee 2002 a single stranded precursor miRNA or a single stranded mature miRNA. In addition to the use of recombinant technology such non synthetic nucleic acids may be generated chemically such as by employing technology used for creating oligonucleotides.

Nucleic acids may be isolated using techniques well known to those of skill in the art though in particular embodiments methods for isolating small nucleic acid molecules and or isolating RNA molecules can be employed. Chromatography is a process often used to separate or isolate nucleic acids from protein or from other nucleic acids. Such methods can involve electrophoresis with a gel matrix filter columns alcohol precipitation and or other chromatography. If miRNA from cells is to be used or evaluated methods generally involve lysing the cells with a chaotropic e.g. guanidinium isothiocyanate and or detergent e.g. N lauroyl sarcosine prior to implementing processes for isolating particular populations of RNA.

Methods may involve the use of organic solvents and or alcohol to isolate nucleic acids particularly miRNA used in methods and compositions of the invention. Some embodiments are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 667 126 which is hereby incorporated by reference. Generally this disclosure provides methods for efficiently isolating small RNA molecules from cells comprising adding an alcohol solution to a cell lysate and applying the alcohol lysate mixture to a solid support before eluting the RNA molecules from the solid support. In some embodiments the amount of alcohol added to a cell lysate achieves an alcohol concentration of about 55 to 60 . While different alcohols can be employed ethanol works well. A solid support may be any structure and it includes beads filters and columns which may include a mineral or polymer support with electronegative groups. A glass fiber filter or column has worked particularly well for such isolation procedures.

In specific embodiments miRNA isolation processes include a lysing cells in the sample with a lysing solution comprising guanidinium wherein a lysate with a concentration of at least about 1 M guanidinium is produced b extracting miRNA molecules from the lysate with an extraction solution comprising phenol c adding to the lysate an alcohol solution for form a lysate alcohol mixture wherein the concentration of alcohol in the mixture is between about 35 to about 70 d applying the lysate alcohol mixture to a solid support e eluting the miRNA molecules from the solid support with an ionic solution and f capturing the miRNA molecules. Typically the sample is dried down and resuspended in a liquid and volume appropriate for subsequent manipulation.

In some embodiments the present invention concerns miRNA that are labeled. It is contemplated that miRNA may first be isolated and or purified prior to labeling. This may achieve a reaction that more efficiently labels the miRNA as opposed to other RNA in a sample in which the miRNA is not isolated or purified prior to labeling. In many embodiments of the invention the label is non radioactive. Generally nucleic acids may be labeled by adding labeled nucleotides one step process or adding nucleotides and labeling the added nucleotides two step process .

In some embodiments nucleic acids are labeled by catalytically adding to the nucleic acid an already labeled nucleotide or nucleotides. One or more labeled nucleotides can be added to miRNA molecules. See U.S. Pat. No. 6 723 509 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In other embodiments an unlabeled nucleotide or nucleotides is catalytically added to a miRNA and the unlabeled nucleotide is modified with a chemical moiety that enables it to be subsequently labeled. In embodiments of the invention the chemical moiety is a reactive amine such that the nucleotide is an amine modified nucleotide. Examples of amine modified nucleotides are well known to those of skill in the art many being commercially available such as from Ambion Sigma Jena Bioscience and TriLink.

One issue for labeling miRNA is how to label the already existing molecule. The present invention concerns the use of an enzyme capable of using a di or tri phosphate ribonucleotide or deoxyribonucleotide as a substrate for its addition to a miRNA. Moreover in specific embodiments it involves using a modified di or tri phosphate ribonucleotide which is added to the 3 end of a miRNA. Enzymes capable of adding such nucleotides include but are not limited to poly A polymerase terminal transferase and polynucleotide phosphorylase. Terminal transferase catalyzes the addition of nucleotides to the 3 terminus of a nucleic acid. Polynucleotide phosphorylase can polymerize nucleotide diphosphates without the need for a primer.

Labels on miRNA or miRNA probes may be colorimetric includes visible and UV spectrum including fluorescent luminescent enzymatic or positron emitting including radioactive . The label may be detected directly or indirectly. Radioactive labels include I P P and S. Examples of enzymatic labels include alkaline phosphatase luciferase horseradish peroxidase and galactosidase. Labels can also be proteins with luminescent properties e.g. green fluorescent protein and phicoerythrin.

The colorimetric and fluorescent labels contemplated for use as conjugates include but are not limited to Alexa Fluor dyes BODIPY dyes such as BODIPY FL Cascade Blue Cascade Yellow coumarin and its derivatives such as 7 amino 4 methylcoumarin aminocoumarin and hydroxycoumarin cyanine dyes such as Cy3 and Cy5 eosins and erythrosins fluorescein and its derivatives such as fluorescein isothiocyanate macrocyclic chelates of lanthanide ions such as Quantum Dye Marina Blue Oregon Green rhodamine dyes such as rhodamine red tetramethylrhodamine and rhodamine 6G Texas Red fluorescent energy transfer dyes such as thiazole orange ethidium heterodimer and TOTAB. Specific examples of dyes include but are not limited to those identified above and the following Alexa Fluor 350 Alexa Fluor 405 Alexa Fluor 430 Alexa Fluor 488 Alexa Fluor 500. Alexa Fluor 514 Alexa Fluor 532 Alexa Fluor 546 Alexa Fluor 555 Alexa Fluor 568 Alexa Fluor 594 Alexa Fluor 610 Alexa Fluor 633 Alexa Fluor 647 Alexa Fluor 660 Alexa Fluor 680 Alexa Fluor 700 and Alexa Fluor 750 amine reactive BODIPY dyes such as BODIPY 493 503 BODIPY 530 550 BODIPY 558 568 BODIPY 564 570 BODIPY 576 589 BODIPY 581 591 BODIPY 630 650 BODIPY 650 655 BODIPY FL BODIPY R6G BODIPY TMR and BODIPY TR Cy3 Cy5 6 FAM Fluorescein Isothiocyanate HEX 6 JOE Oregon Green 488 Oregon Green 500 Oregon Green 514 Pacific Blue REG Rhodamine Green Rhodamine Red Renographin ROX SYPRO TAMRA 2 4 5 7 Tetrabromosulfonefluorescein and TET.

Specific examples of fluorescently labeled ribonucleotides are available from Molecular Probes and these include Alexa Fluor 488 5 UTP Fluorescein 12 UTP BODIPY FL 14 UTP BODIPY TMR 14 UTP Tetramethylrhodamine 6 UTP Alexa Fluor 546 14 UTP Texas Red 5 UTP and BODIPY TR 14 UTP. Other fluorescent ribonucleotides are available from Amersham Biosciences such as Cy3 UTP and Cy5 UTP.

Examples of fluorescently labeled deoxyribonucleotides include Dinitrophenyl DNP 11 dUTP Cascade Blue 7 dUTP Alexa Fluor 488 5 dUTP Fluorescein 12 dUTP Oregon Green 488 5 dUTP BODIPY FL 14 dUTP Rhodamine Green 5 dUTP Alexa Fluor 532 5 dUTP BODIPY TMR 14 dUTP Tetramethylrhodamine 6 dUTP Alexa Fluor 546 14 dUTP Alexa Fluor 568 5 dUTP Texas Red 12 dUTP Texas Red 5 dUTP BODIPY TR 14 dUTP Alexa Fluor 594 5 dUTP BODIPY 630 650 14 dUTP BODIPY 650 665 14 dUTP Alexa Fluor 488 7 OBEA dCTP Alexa Fluor 546 16 OBEA dCTP Alexa Fluor 594 7 OBEA dCTP Alexa Fluor 647 12 OBEA dCTP.

It is contemplated that nucleic acids may be labeled with two different labels. Furthermore fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET may be employed in methods of the invention e.g. Klostermeier et al. 2002 Emptage 2001 Didenko 2001 each incorporated by reference .

Alternatively the label may not be detectable per se but indirectly detectable or allowing for the isolation or separation of the targeted nucleic acid. For example the label could be biotin digoxigenin polyvalent cations chelator groups and the other ligands include ligands for an antibody.

A number of techniques for visualizing or detecting labeled nucleic acids are readily available. Such techniques include microscopy arrays Fluorometry Light cyclers or other real time PCR machines FACS analysis scintillation counters Phosphoimagers Geiger counters MRI CAT antibody based detection methods Westerns immunofluorescence immunohistochemistry histochemical techniques HPLC Griffey et al. 1997 spectroscopy capillary gel electrophoresis Cummins et al. 1996 spectroscopy mass spectroscopy radiological techniques and mass balance techniques.

When two or more differentially detectable labels are employed fluorescent resonance energy transfer FRET techniques may be employed to characterize association of one or more nucleic acid. Furthermore a person of ordinary skill in the art is well aware of ways of visualizing identifying and characterizing labeled nucleic acids and accordingly such protocols may be used as part of the invention. Examples of tools that may be used also include fluorescent microscopy a BioAnalyzer a plate reader Storm Molecular Dynamics Array Scanner FACS fluorescent activated cell sorter or any instrument that has the ability to excite and detect a fluorescent molecule.

The present invention concerns the preparation and use of miRNA arrays or miRNA probe arrays. The arrays can be ordered macroarrays or microarrays of nucleic acid molecules probes that are fully or nearly complementary or identical to a plurality of miRNA molecules or precursor miRNA molecules and are positioned on a support or support material in a spatially separated organization. Macroarrays are typically a support e.g. sheets of nitrocellulose or nylon upon which probes have been spotted. Microarrays position the nucleic acid probes more densely such that up to 10 000 nucleic acid molecules can be fit into a region typically 1 to 4 square centimeters. Microarrays can be fabricated by spotting nucleic acid molecules e.g. genes oligonucleotides etc. onto substrates or fabricating oligonucleotide sequences in situ on a substrate. Spotted or fabricated nucleic acid molecules can be applied in a high density matrix pattern of up to about 30 non identical nucleic acid molecules per square centimeter or higher e.g. up to about 100 or even 1000 per square centimeter. Microarrays typically use coated glass as the solid support in contrast to the nitrocellulose based material of filter arrays. By having an ordered array of miRNA complementing nucleic acid samples the position of each sample can be tracked and linked to the original sample. A variety of different array devices in which a plurality of distinct nucleic acid probes are stably associated with the surface of a solid support are known to those of skill in the art. Useful substrates or supports for arrays include nylon glass metal plastic and silicon. Such arrays may vary in a number of different ways including average probe length sequence or types of probes nature of bond between the probe and the array surface e.g. covalent or non covalent and the like. The labeling and screening methods of the present invention and the arrays are not limited in its utility with respect to any parameter except that the probes detect miRNA consequently methods and compositions may be used with a variety of different types of miRNA arrays.

Representative methods and apparatus for preparing a microarray have been described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 143 854 5 202 231 5 242 974 5 288 644 5 324 633 5 384 261 5 405 783 5 412 087 5 424 186 5 429 807 5 432 049 5 436 327 5 445 934 5 468 613 5 470 710 5 472 672 5 492 806 5 525 464 5 503 980 5 510 270 5 525 464 5 527 681 5 529 756 5 532 128 5 545 531 5 547 839 5 554 501 5 556 752 5 561 071 5 571 639 5 580 726 5 580 732 5 593 839 5 599 695 5 599 672 5 610 287 5 624 711 5 631 134 5 639 603 5 654 413 5 658 734 5 661 028 5 665 547 5 667 972 5 695 940 5 700 637 5 744 305 5 800 992 5 807 522 5 830 645 5 837 196 5 871 928 5 847 219 5 876 932 5 919 626 6 004 755 6 087 102 6 368 799 6 383 749 6 617 112 6 638 717 6 720 138 as well as WO 93 17126 WO 95 11995 WO 95 21265 WO 95 21944 WO 95 35505 WO 96 31622 WO 97 10365 WO 97 27317 WO 99 35505 WO 09923256 WO 09936760 WO0138580 WO 0168255 WO 03020898 WO 03040410 WO 03053586 WO 03087297 WO 03091426 WO03100012 WO 04020085 WO 04027093 EP 373 203 EP 785 280 EP 799 897 and UK 8 803 000 the disclosures of which are all herein incorporated by reference.

It is contemplated that the arrays can be high density arrays such that they contain 2 20 25 50 80 100 or more different probes. It is contemplated that they may contain 1000 16 000 65 000 250 000 or 1 000 000 or more different probes. The probes can be directed to targets in one or more different organisms or cell types. The oligonucleotide probes range from 5 to 50 5 to 45 10 to 40 9 to 34 or 15 to 40 nucleotides in length in some embodiments. In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide probes are 5 10 15 20 to 20 25 30 35 40 nucleotides in length including all integers and ranges there between.

The location and sequence of each different probe sequence in the array are generally known. Moreover the large number of different probes can occupy a relatively small area providing a high density array having a probe density of generally greater than about 60 100 600 1000 5 000 10 000 40 000 100 000 or 400 000 different oligonucleotide probes per cm. The surface area of the array can be about or less than about 1 1.6 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 cm.

Moreover a person of ordinary skill in the art could readily analyze data generated using an array. Such protocols are disclosed above and include information found in WO 9743450 WO 03023058 WO 03022421 WO 03029485 WO 03067217 WO 03066906 WO 03076928 WO 03093810 WO 03100448A1 all of which are specifically incorporated by reference.

It is contemplated that the miRNA of a wide variety of samples can be analyzed using the arrays index of miRNA probes or array technology described herein and known to the skilled artisan. While endogenous miRNA is contemplated for use with compositions and methods of the invention recombinant miRNA including nucleic acids that are complementary or identical to endogenous miRNA or precursor miRNA can also be handled and analyzed as described herein. Samples may be biological samples in which case they can be from biopsy fine needle aspirates exfoliates scrappings blood tissue organs or any sample containing or constituting biological cells of interest. In certain embodiments samples may be but are not limited to fresh frozen fixed formalin fixed paraffin embedded or formalin fixed and paraffin embedded. Alternatively the sample may not be a biological sample but be a chemical mixture such as a cell free reaction mixture which may contain one or more biological enzymes .

After an array or a set of miRNA probes is prepared and the miRNA in the sample is labeled the population of target nucleic acids is contacted with the array or probes under hybridization conditions where such conditions can be adjusted as desired to provide for an optimum level of specificity in view of the particular assay being performed. Suitable hybridization conditions are well known to those of skill in the art and reviewed in Sambrook et al. 2001 and WO 95 21944. Of particular interest in many embodiments is the use of stringent conditions during hybridization. Stringent conditions are known to those of skill in the art.

It is specifically contemplated that a single array or set of probes may be contacted with multiple samples. The samples may be labeled with different labels to distinguish the samples. For example a single array can be contacted with a tumor tissue sample labeled with Cy3 and normal tissue sample labeled with Cy5. Differences between the samples for particular miRNAs corresponding to probes on the array can be readily ascertained and quantified.

The small surface area of the array permits uniform hybridization conditions such as temperature regulation and salt content. Moreover because of the small area occupied by the high density arrays hybridization may be carried out in extremely small fluid volumes e.g. about 250 l or less including volumes of about or less than about 5 10 25 50 60 70 80 90 100 l or any range derivable therein . In small volumes hybridization may proceed very rapidly.

Arrays of the invention can be used to detect differences between two samples. Specifically contemplated applications include identifying and or quantifying differences between miRNA from a sample that is normal and from a sample that is not normal or contains abnormal components between a cancerous condition and a non cancerous condition or between two differently treated samples. Also miRNA may be compared between a sample believed to be susceptible to a particular disease or condition and one believed to be not susceptible or resistant to that disease or condition. A sample that is not normal is one exhibiting phenotypic trait s of a disease or condition or one believed to be not normal with respect to that disease or condition. Phenotypic traits include symptoms of or susceptibility to a disease or condition of which a component is or may or may not be genetic or caused by a hyperproliferative or neoplastic cell or cells.

An array comprises a solid support with nucleic acid probes attached to the support. Arrays typically comprise a plurality of different nucleic acid probes that are coupled to a surface of a substrate in different known locations. These arrays also described as microarrays or colloquially chips have been generally described in the art for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 143 854 5 445 934 5 744 305 5 677 195 6 040 193 5 424 186 and Fodor et al. Science 251 767 777 1991 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes. These arrays may generally be produced using mechanical synthesis methods or light directed synthesis methods which incorporate a combination of photolithographic methods and solid phase synthesis methods. Techniques for the synthesis of these arrays using mechanical synthesis methods are described in e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 384 261 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes. Although a planar array surface is used in certain aspects the array may be fabricated on a surface of virtually any shape or even a multiplicity of surfaces. Arrays may be nucleic acids on beads gels polymeric surfaces fibers such as fiber optics glass or any other appropriate substrate see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 770 358 5 789 162 5 708 153 6 040 193 and 5 800 992 which are hereby incorporated in their entirety for all purposes. Arrays may be packaged in such a manner as to allow for diagnostics or other manipulation of an all inclusive device see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 856 174 and 5 922 591 incorporated in their entirety by reference for all purposes. See also U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 545 207 filed Apr. 7 2000 for additional information concerning arrays their manufacture and their characteristics which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Particularly arrays can be used to evaluate samples with respect to diseases or conditions that include but are not limited to pre cancerous cervical lesion or cervical cancer.

Cancers that may be evaluated by methods and compositions of the invention include cancer cells particularly from the uterus or cervix but may also include cells and cancer cells from the bladder blood bone bone marrow brain breast colon esophagus gastrointestine gum head kidney liver lung nasopharynx neck ovary prostate skin stomach testis or tongue. miRNA can be evaluated in precancers such as metaplasia dysplasia and hyperplasia.

It is specifically contemplated that the invention can be used to evaluate differences between stages of disease such as between hyperplasia neoplasia pre cancer and cancer or between a primary tumor and a metastasized tumor.

Moreover it is contemplated that samples that have differences in the activity of certain pathways may also be compared. These pathways include those involving the following factors antibody response apoptosis calcium NFAT signaling cell cycle cell migration cell adhesion cell division cytokines and cytokine receptors drug metabolism growth factors and growth factor receptors inflammatory response insulin signaling NF B signaling angiogenesis adipogenesis cell adhesion viral infection bacterial infection senescence motility glucose transport stress response oxidation aging telomere extension telomere shortening neural transmission blood clotting stem cell differentiation G Protein Coupled Receptor GPCR signaling and p53 misregulation.

Cellular pathways that may be profiled also include but are not limited to the following any adhesion or motility pathway including but not limited to those involving cyclic AMP protein kinase A G protein couple receptors adenylyl cyclase L selectin E selectin PECAM VCAM 1 actinin paxillin cadherins AKT integrin integrin RAF 1 ERK PI 3 kinase vinculin matrix metalloproteinases Rho GTPases p85 trefoil factors profilin FAK MAP kinase Ras caveolin calpain 1 calpain 2 epidermal growth factor receptor ICAM 1 ICAM 2 cofilin actin gelsolin RhoA RAC1 myosin light chain kinase platelet derived growth factor receptor or ezrin any apoptosis pathway including but not limited to those involving AKT Fas ligand NF B caspase 9 PI3 kinase caspase 3 caspase 7 ICAD CAD EndoG Granzyme B Bad Bax Bid Bak APAF 1 cytochrome C p53 ATM Bcl 2 PARP Chk1 Chk2 p21 c Jun p73 Rad51 Mdm2 Rad50 c Abl BRCA 1 perforin caspase 4 caspase 8 caspase 6 caspase 1 caspase 2 caspase 10 Rho Jun kinase Jun kinase kinase Rip2 lamin A lamin B1 lamin B2 Fas receptor HO Granzyme A NADPH oxidase HMG2 CD4 CD28 CD3 TRADD IKK FADD GADD45 DR3 death receptor DR4 5 death receptor FLIPs APO 3 GRB2 SHC ERK MEK RAF 1 cyclic AMP protein kinase A E2F retinoblastoma protein Smac Diablo ACH receptor 14 3 3 FAK SODD TNF receptor RIP cyclin D1 PCNA Bcl XL PIP2 PIP3 PTEN ATM Cdc2 protein kinase C calcineurin IKK IKK IKK SOS 1 c FOS Traf 1 Traf 2 I or the proteasome any cell activation pathway including but not limited to those involving protein kinase A nitric oxide caveolin 1 actin calcium protein kinase C Cdc2 cyclin B Cdc25 GRB2 SRC protein kinase ADP ribosylation factors ARFs phospholipase D AKAP95 p68 Aurora B CDK1 Eg7 histone H3 PKAc CD80 PI3 kinase WASP Arp2 Arp3 p16 p34 p20 PP2A angiotensin angiotensin converting enzyme protease activated receptor 1 protease activated receptor 4 Ras RAF 1 PLC PLC COX 1 G protein coupled receptors phospholipase A2 IP3 SUMO1 SUMO 2 3 ubiquitin Ran Ran GAP Ran GEF p53 glucocorticoids glucocorticoid receptor components of the SWI SNF complex RanBP1 RanBP2 importins exportins RCC1 CD40 CD40 ligand p38 IKK IKK NF B TRAF2 TRAF3 TRAF5 TRAF6 IL 4 IL 4 receptor CDK5 AP 1 transcription factor CD45 CD4 T cell receptors MAP kinase nerve growth factor nerve growth factor receptor c Jun c Fos Jun kinase GRB2 SOS 1 ERK 1 ERK JAK2 STAT4 IL 12 IL 12 receptor nitric oxide synthase TYK2 IFN elastase IL 8 epithelins IL 2 IL 2 receptor CD28 SMAD3 SMAD4 TGF or TGF receptor any cell cycle regulation signaling or differentiation pathway including but not limited to those involving TNFs SRC protein kinase Cdc2 cyclin B Grb2 Sos 1 SHC p68 Aurora kinases protein kinase A protein kinase C Eg7 p53 cyclins cyclin dependent kinases neural growth factor epidermal growth factor retinoblastoma protein ATF 2 ATM ATR AKT CHK1 CHK2 14 3 3 WEE1 CDC25 CDC6 Origin Recognition Complex proteins p15 p16 p27 p21 ABL c ABL SMADs ubiquitin SUMO heat shock proteins Wnt GSK 3 angiotensin p73 any PPAR TGF TGF p300 E6 AP Hect E3s MDM2 GADD45 Notch cdc34 BRCA 1 BRCA 2 SKP1 the proteasome CUL1 E2F p107 steroid hormones steroid hormone receptors I B I B Sin3A heat shock proteins Ras Rho ERKs IKKs PI3 kinase Bcl 2 Bax PCNA MAP kinases dynein RhoA PKAc cyclin AMP FAK PIP2 PIPS integrins thrombopoietin Fas Fas ligand PLK3 MEKs JAKs STATs acetylcholine paxillin calcineurin p38 importins exportins Ran Rad50 Rad51 DNA polymerase RNA polymerase Ran GAP Ran GEF NuMA Tpx2 RCC1 Sonic Hedgehog Crm1 Patched Ptc 1 MPF CaM kinases tubulin actin kinetochore associated proteins centromere binding proteins telomerase TERT PP2A c MYC insulin T cell receptors B cell receptors CBP IK NF B RAC1 RAF1 EPO diacylglycerol c Jun c Fos Jun kinase hypoxia inducible factors GATA4 catenin catenin calcium arrestin survivin caspases procaspases CREB CREM cadherins PECAMs corticosteroids colony stimulating factors calpains adenylyl cyclase growth factors nitric oxide transmembrane receptors retinoids G proteins ion channels transcriptional activators transcriptional coactivators transcriptional repressors interleukins vitamins interferons transcriptional corepressors the nuclear pore nitrogen toxins proteolysis or phosphorylation or any metabolic pathway including but not limited to those involving the biosynthesis of amino acids oxidation of fatty acids biosynthesis of neurotransmitters and other cell signaling molecules biosynthesis of polyamines biosynthesis of lipids and sphingolipids catabolism of amino acids and nutrients nucleotide synthesis eicosanoids electron transport reactions ER associated degradation glycolysis fibrinolysis formation of ketone bodies formation of phagosomes cholesterol metabolism regulation of food intake energy homeostasis prothrombin activation synthesis of lactose and other sugars multi drug resistance biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine the proteasome amyloid precursor protein Rab GTPases starch synthesis glycosylation synthesis of phoshoglycerides vitamins the citric acid cycle IGF 1 receptor the urea cycle vesicular transport or salvage pathways. It is further contemplated that nucleic acids molecules of the invention can be employed in diagnostic and therapeutic methods with respect to any of the above pathways or factors. Thus in some embodiments of the invention a miRNA may be differentially expressed with respect to one or more of the above pathways or factors. In certain aspects the pathways or cellular elements involved or effected by HPV infection can be assessed evaluated and or monitored e.g. hTERT E6TP1 MCMI Bak and PDZ domain containing proteins such as Scribble h Dlg MAGI 1 MAGI 3 and MUPP1.

Phenotypic traits also include characteristics such as susceptibility or receptivity to particular drugs or therapeutic treatments drug efficacy and risk of drug toxicity. Samples that differ in these phenotypic traits may also be evaluated using the arrays and methods described.

In certain embodiments miRNA profiles may be generated to evaluate and correlate those profiles with pharmacokinetics. For example miRNA profiles may be created and evaluated for patient tumor and blood samples prior to the patient s being treated or during treatment to determine if there are miRNAs whose expression correlates with the outcome of the patient. Identification of differential miRNAs can lead to a diagnostic assay involving them that can be used to evaluate tumor and or blood samples to determine what drug regimen the patient should be provided. In addition it can be used to identify or select patients suitable for a particular clinical trial. If a miRNA profile is determined to be correlated with drug efficacy or drug toxicity that may be relevant to whether that patient is an appropriate patient for receiving the drug or for a particular dosage of the drug.

In addition to prognostic assays samples from patients with a variety of diseases can be evaluated to determine if different diseases can be identified based on blood miRNA levels. A diagnostic assay can be created based on the profiles that doctors can use to identify individuals with a disease or who are at risk to develop a disease. Alternatively treatments can be designed based on miRNA profiling. Examples of such methods and compositions are described in the U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 683 736 entitled Methods and Compositions Involving miRNA and miRNA Inhibitor Molecules filed on May 23 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In addition to the use of arrays and microarrays it is contemplated that a number of difference assays could be employed to analyze miRNAs their activities and their effects. Such assays include but are not limited to nucleic amplification polymerase chain reaction quantitative PCR RT PCR in situ hybridization Northern hybridization hybridization protection assay HPA GenProbe branched DNA bDNA assay Chiron rolling circle amplification RCA single molecule hybridization detection US Genomics Invader assay ThirdWave Technologies and or Bridge Litigation Assay Genaco .

Methods of the invention include reducing or eliminating activity of one or more miRNAs in a cell comprising introducing into a cell an miRNA inhibitor or supplying or enhancing the activity of one or more miRNAs in a cell. The present invention also concerns inducing certain cellular characteristics by providing to a cell a particular nucleic acid such as a specific synthetic miRNA molecule or a synthetic miRNA inhibitor molecule. However in methods of the invention the miRNA molecule or miRNA inhibitor need not be synthetic. They may have a sequence that is identical to a naturally occurring miRNA or they may not have any design modifications. In certain embodiments the miRNA molecule and or an miRNA inhibitor are synthetic as discussed herein.

The particular nucleic acid molecule provided to the cell is understood to correspond to a particular miRNA in the cell and thus the miRNA in the cell is referred to as the corresponding miRNA. In situations in which a named miRNA molecule is introduced into a cell the corresponding miRNA will be understood to be the induced miRNA. It is contemplated however that the miRNA molecule introduced into a cell is not a mature miRNA but is capable of becoming a mature miRNA under the appropriate physiological conditions. In cases in which a particular corresponding miRNA is being inhibited by a miRNA inhibitor the particular miRNA will be referred to as the targeted miRNA. It is contemplated that multiple corresponding miRNAs may be involved. In particular embodiments more than one miRNA molecule is introduced into a cell. Moreover in other embodiments more than one miRNA inhibitor is introduced into a cell. Furthermore a combination of miRNA molecule s and miRNA inhibitor s may be introduced into a cell.

Methods include identifying a cell or patient in need of inducing those cellular characteristics. Also it will be understood that an amount of a synthetic nucleic acid that is provided to a cell or organism is an effective amount which refers to an amount needed to achieve a desired goal such as inducing a particular cellular characteristic s .

In certain embodiments of the methods include providing or introducing to a cell a nucleic acid molecule corresponding to a mature miRNA in the cell in an amount effective to achieve a desired physiological result.

Moreover methods can involve providing synthetic or nonsynthetic miRNA molecules. It is contemplated that in these embodiments methods may or may not be limited to providing only one or more synthetic miRNA molecules or only on or more nonsynthetic miRNA molecules. Thus in certain embodiments methods may involve providing both synthetic and nonsynthetic miRNA molecules. In this situation a cell or cells are most likely provided a synthetic miRNA molecule corresponding to a particular miRNA and a nonsynthetic miRNA molecule corresponding to a different miRNA. Furthermore any method including a list of miRNAs using Markush group language may be articulated without the Markush group language and a disjunctive article i.e. or instead and vice versa.

In some embodiments there is a method for reducing or inhibiting cell proliferation in a cell comprising introducing into or providing to the cell an effective amount of i an miRNA inhibitor molecule or ii a synthetic or nonsynthetic miRNA molecule that corresponds to an miRNA sequence. In certain embodiments the methods involves introducing into the cell an effective amount of i an miRNA inhibitor molecule having a 5 to 3 sequence that is at least 90 complementary to all or part of the 5 to 3 sequence of one or more mature miRNA of Table 1.

Certain embodiments of the invention include methods of treating a pre cancerous cervical lesion or a cancerous cervical condition. In one aspect the method comprises contacting a cervical cell with one or more nucleic acid synthetic miRNA or miRNA comprising at least one nucleic acid segment having all or a portion of a miRNA sequence. The segment may be 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 30 or more nucleotides or nucleotide analog including all integers there between. An aspect of the invention includes the modulation of a miRNA or a mRNA within a target cell such as a cervical cell.

Typically an endogenous gene miRNA or mRNA is modulated in the cell. In particular embodiments the nucleic acid sequence comprises at least one segment that is at least 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 identical in nucleic acid sequence to one or more miRNA sequence listed in Table 1. Modulation of the expression or processing of an endogenous gene miRNA or mRNA can be through modulation of the processing of an mRNA such processing including transcription transportation and or translation with in a cell. Modulation may also be effected by the inhibition or enhancement of miRNA activity with a cell tissue or organ. Such processing may effect the expression of an encoded product or the stability of the mRNA. In still other embodiments a nucleic acid sequence can comprise a modified nucleic acid sequence.

In particular embodiments the cervical cell is a cervical cancer cell. Methods of the invention can further comprise administering a second therapy such as chemotherapy radiotherapy surgery or immunotherapy. The nucleic acid can be transcribed from a nucleic acid vector such as a plasmid vector or a viral vector.

Methods of treating a pre cancerous or cancerous cervical condition include contacting or administering to a cervical cell one or more nucleic acid comprising a miRNA sequence wherein expression of an endogenous miRNA is modulated in the cervical cell where the miRNA sequence is at least 70 75 80 85 or more identical to one or more of the sequences identified in Table 1. In certain aspects the activity of those miRNAs indicated as having increased expression in a pre cancerous or cancerous tissue is decreased. In a further aspect the miRNA activity of those miRNA indicated as having decreased expression in a pre cancerous or cancerous tissue is increased.

In certain aspects one or more miRNA sequence may include or comprise a modified nucleobase or nucleic acid sequence.

The methods may further comprise administering a second therapy. The second therapy can be but is not limited to chemotherapy radiotherapy surgery or immunotherapy.

In still further aspects one or more miRNA are transcribed from a nucleic acid vector such as a plasmid or viral vector.

In certain aspects a subject is administered one or more nucleic acid possessing a function of an miRNA having a nucleic acid segment having at least 80 85 90 95 97 98 99 or 100 nucleic acid sequence identity to those miRNA decreased or down regulated in a disease or condition to be treated.

In certain aspects a subject is administered one or more miRNA inhibitors having a nucleic acid segment having at least 80 85 90 95 97 98 99 or 100 nucleic acid sequence identity to those miRNA increased or up regulated in a disease or condition to be treated.

Synthetic nucleic acids can be administered to the subject or patient using modes of administration that are well known to those of skill in the art particularly for therapeutic applications. It is particularly contemplated that a patient is human or any other mammal or animal.

It will be understood in methods of the invention that a cell or other biological matter such as an organism including patients can be provided an miRNA or miRNA molecule corresponding to a particular miRNA by administering to the cell or organism a nucleic acid molecule that functions as the corresponding miRNA once inside the cell. The form of the molecule provided to the cell may not be the form that acts as an miRNA once inside the cell. Thus it is contemplated that in some embodiments biological matter is provided a synthetic miRNA or a nonsynthetic miRNA such as one that becomes processed into a mature and active miRNA once it has access to the cell s miRNA processing machinery. In certain embodiments it is specifically contemplated that the miRNA molecule provided to the biological matter is not a mature miRNA molecule but a nucleic acid molecule that can be processed into the mature miRNA once it is accessible to miRNA processing machinery. The term nonsynthetic in the context of miRNA means that the miRNA is not synthetic as defined herein. Furthermore it is contemplated that in embodiments of the invention that concern the use of synthetic miRNAs the use of corresponding nonsynthetic miRNAs is also considered an aspect of the invention and vice versa.

In other embodiments the methods involve reducing cell viability comprising introducing into or providing to the cell an effective amount of i an miRNA inhibitor molecule or ii a synthetic or nonsynthetic miRNA molecule that corresponds to an miRNA sequence. Methods for inducing apoptosis have a number of therapeutic applications including but not limited to the treatment of pre cancer or cancer.

The present invention also concerns using miRNA compositions to treat diseases or conditions or to prepare therapeutics for the treatment of diseases or conditions. It is contemplated that 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 or 40 more miRNA or any range derivable therein may be used for these embodiments. In certain embodiments methods involve one or more miRNA inhibitors and or an miRNA molecules corresponding to any of these miRNAs particularly for the treatment or prevention of cancer. Cancer includes but is not limited to malignant cancers tumors metastatic cancers unresectable cancers chemo and or radiation resistant cancers and terminal cancers.

In certain embodiments methods also include targeting an miRNA to modulate in a cell or organism. The term targeting an miRNA to modulate or targeting an miRNA means a nucleic acid of the invention will be employed so as to modulate the selected miRNA. In some embodiments the modulation is achieved with a synthetic or non synthetic miRNA that corresponds to the targeted miRNA which effectively provides the targeted miRNA to the cell or organism positive modulation . In other embodiments the modulation is achieved with an miRNA inhibitor which effectively inhibits the targeted miRNA in the cell or organism negative modulation .

In some embodiments the miRNA targeted to be modulated is an miRNA that affects a disease condition or pathway. In certain embodiments the miRNA is targeted because a treatment can be provided by negative modulation of the targeted miRNA. In other embodiments the miRNA is targeted because a treatment can be provided by positive modulation of the targeted miRNA.

In certain methods of the invention there is a further step of administering the selected miRNA modulator to a cell tissue organ or organism collectively biological matter in need of treatment related to modulation of the targeted miRNA or in need of the physiological or biological results discussed herein such as with respect to a particular cellular pathway or result such as a decrease in cell viability . Consequently in some methods of the invention there is a step of identifying a patient in need of treatment that can be provided by the miRNA modulator s . It is contemplated that an effective amount of an miRNA modulator can be administered in some embodiments. In particular embodiments there is a therapeutic benefit conferred on the biological matter where a therapeutic benefit refers to an improvement in the one or more conditions or symptoms associated with a disease or condition or an improvement in the prognosis duration or status with respect to the disease. It is contemplated that a therapeutic benefit includes but is not limited to a decrease in pain a decrease in morbidity a decrease in a severity or duration of a symptom. For example with respect to cancer it is contemplated that a therapeutic benefit can be inhibition of tumor growth prevention of metastasis reduction in number of metastases inhibition of cancer cell proliferation inhibition of cancer cell proliferation induction of cell death in cancer cells inhibition of angiogenesis near cancer cells induction of apoptosis of cancer cells reduction in pain reduction in risk of recurrence induction of chemo or radiosensitivity in cancer cells prolongation of life palliation of symptoms related to the condition and or delay of death directly or indirectly related to a cancer.

Furthermore it is contemplated that the miRNA compositions may be provided as part of a therapy to a patient in conjunction with traditional therapies or preventative agents. Moreover it is contemplated that any method discussed in the context of therapy may be applied as a preventative measure particularly in a patient identified to be potentially in need of the therapy or at risk of the condition or disease for which a therapy is needed.

In addition methods of the invention concern employing one or more nucleic acids corresponding to an miRNA and a therapeutic drug. The nucleic acid can enhance the effect or efficacy of the drug reduce any side effects or toxicity modify its bioavailability and or decrease the dosage or frequency needed. In certain embodiments the therapeutic drug is a cancer therapeutic. Consequently in some embodiments there is a method of treating cancer in a patient comprising administering to the patient the cancer therapeutic and an effective amount of at least one miRNA molecule that improves the efficacy of the cancer therapeutic or protects non cancer cells. Cancer therapies also include a variety of combination therapies with both chemical and radiation based treatments. Combination chemotherapies include but are not limited to for example bevacizumab cisplatin CDDP carboplatin EGFR inhibitors gefitinib and cetuximab procarbazine mechlorethamine cyclophosphamide camptothecin COX 2 inhibitors e.g. celecoxib ifosfamide melphalan chlorambucil busulfan nitrosurea dactinomycin daunorubicin doxorubicin adriamycin bleomycin plicomycin mitomycin etoposide VP 16 tamoxifen raloxifene estrogen receptor binding agents taxol taxotere gemcitabien navelbine farnesyl protein transferase inhibitors transplatinum 5 fluorouracil vincristin vinblastin and methotrexate or any analog or derivative variant of the foregoing.

Generally inhibitors of miRNAs can be given to achieve the opposite effect as compared to when nucleic acid molecules corresponding to the mature miRNA are given. Similarly nucleic acid molecules corresponding to the mature miRNA can be given to achieve the opposite effect as compared to when inhibitors of the miRNA are given. For example miRNA molecules that increase cell proliferation can be provided to cells to increase proliferation or inhibitors of such molecules can be provided to cells to decrease cell proliferation. The present invention contemplates these embodiments in the context of the different physiological effects observed with the different miRNA molecules and miRNA inhibitors disclosed herein. These include but are not limited to the following physiological effects increase and decreasing cell proliferation increasing or decreasing apoptosis increasing or decreasing transformation increasing or decreasing cell viability activating stimulating or suppressing cellular pathways reduce or increase viable cell number and increase or decrease number of cells at a particular phase of the cell cycle. Methods of the invention are generally contemplated to include providing or introducing one or more different nucleic acid or mimetic molecules corresponding to one or more different miRNA molecules. It is contemplated that the following at least the following or at most the following number of different nucleic acid molecules may be provided or introduced 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 or any range derivable therein. This also applies to the number of different miRNA molecules that can be provided or introduced into a cell.

Any of the compositions described herein may be comprised in a kit. In a non limiting example reagents for isolating miRNA labeling miRNA and or evaluating a miRNA population using an array nucleic acid amplification and or hybridization can be included in a kit as well reagents for preparation of samples from cervical samples or other sample that have been may have been exposed to or suspected of being infected with HPV. The kit may further include reagents for creating or synthesizing miRNA probes. The kits will thus comprise in suitable container means an enzyme for labeling the miRNA by incorporating labeled nucleotide or unlabeled nucleotides that are subsequently labeled. In certain aspects the kit can include amplification reagents. In other aspects the kit may include various supports such as glass nylon polymeric beads and the like and or reagents for coupling any probes and or target nucleic acids. It may also include one or more buffers such as reaction buffer labeling buffer washing buffer or a hybridization buffer compounds for preparing the miRNA probes and components for isolating miRNA. Other kits of the invention may include components for making a nucleic acid array comprising miRNA and thus may include for example a solid support.

Kits for implementing methods of the invention described herein are specifically contemplated. In some embodiments there are kits for preparing miRNA for multi labeling and kits for preparing miRNA probes and or miRNA arrays. In these embodiments kit comprise in suitable container means 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 or more of the following 1 poly A polymerase 2 unmodified nucleotides G A T C and or U 3 a modified nucleotide labeled or unlabeled 4 poly A polymerase buffer 5 at least one microfilter 6 label that can be attached to a nucleotide 7 at least one miRNA probe 8 reaction buffer 9 a miRNA array or components for making such an array 10 acetic acid 11 alcohol and 12 solutions for preparing isolating enriching and purifying miRNAs or miRNA probes or arrays. Other reagents include those generally used for manipulating RNA such as formamide loading dye ribonuclease inhibitors and DNase.

In specific embodiments kits of the invention include an array containing miRNA probes as described in the application. An array may have probes corresponding to all known miRNAs of an organism or a particular tissue or organ in particular conditions or to a subset of such probes. The subset of probes on arrays of the invention may be or include those identified as relevant to a particular diagnostic therapeutic or prognostic application. For example the array may contain one or more probes that is indicative or suggestive of 1 a disease or condition 2 susceptibility or resistance to a particular drug or treatment 3 susceptibility to toxicity from a drug or substance 4 the stage of development or severity of a disease or condition prognosis and 5 genetic predisposition to a disease or condition.

For any kit embodiment including an array there can be nucleic acid molecules that contain or can be used to amplify a sequence that is a variant of identical to or complementary to all or part of any of SEQ ID NOS 1 562. In certain embodiments a kit or array of the invention can contain one or more probes for the miRNAs identified by SEQ ID NOS 1 562. Any nucleic acid discussed above may be implemented as part of a kit.

The components of the kits may be packaged either in aqueous media or in lyophilized form. The container means of the kits will generally include at least one vial test tube flask bottle syringe or other container into which a component may be placed and preferably suitably aliquotted. Where there is more than one component in the kit labeling reagent and label may be packaged together the kit also will generally contain a second third or other additional container into which the additional components may be separately placed. However various combinations of components may be comprised in a vial. The kits of the present invention also will typically include a means for containing the nucleic acids and any other reagent containers in close confinement for commercial sale. Such containers may include injection or blow molded plastic containers into which the desired vials are retained.

When the components of the kit are provided in one and or more liquid solutions the liquid solution is an aqueous solution with a sterile aqueous solution being particularly preferred.

However the components of the kit may be provided as dried powder s . When reagents and or components are provided as a dry powder the powder can be reconstituted by the addition of a suitable solvent. It is envisioned that the solvent may also be provided in another container means. In some embodiments labeling dyes are provided as a dried power. It is contemplated that 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 120 120 130 140 150 160 170 180 190 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 g or at least or at most those amounts of dried dye are provided in kits of the invention. The dye may then be resuspended in any suitable solvent such as DMSO.

The container means will generally include at least one vial test tube flask bottle syringe and or other container means into which the nucleic acid formulations are placed preferably suitably allocated. The kits may also comprise a second container means for containing a sterile pharmaceutically acceptable buffer and or other diluent.

Such kits may also include components that facilitate isolation of the labeled miRNA. It may also include components that preserve or maintain the miRNA or that protect against its degradation. Such components may be RNAse free or protect against RNAses. Such kits generally will comprise in suitable means distinct containers for each individual reagent or solution.

Kits of the invention may also include one or more of the following Control RNA nuclease free water RNase free containers such as 1.5 ml tubes RNase free elution tubes PEG or dextran ethanol acetic acid sodium acetate ammonium acetate guanidinium detergent nucleic acid size marker RNase free tube tips and RNase or DNase inhibitors.

It is contemplated that such reagents are embodiments of kits of the invention. Such kits however are not limited to the particular items identified above and may include any reagent used for the manipulation or characterization of miRNA.

The following examples are given for the purpose of illustrating various embodiments of the invention and are not meant to limit the present invention in any fashion. One skilled in the art will appreciate readily that the present invention is well adapted to carry out the objects and obtain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those objects ends and advantages inherent herein. The present examples along with the methods described herein are presently representative of preferred embodiments are exemplary and are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Changes therein and other uses which are encompassed within the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the claims will occur to those skilled in the art.

Paired tissue samples from nine squamous cell carcinomas Ca and nine normal adjacent regions NAT of the uterine cervix from the same patients and three squamous intraepithelial lesions SIL of the cervix were purchased from ProteoGenex Culver City Calif. USA . Total RNA was extracted from these tissue samples using the mirVana miRNA Isolation Kit Ambion Austin Tex. USA according to the manufacturer s protocol. Additional samples used in the study included purified total RNA from sixteen normal cervical tissue specimens NCX FirstChoice Human Cervix Total RNA Ambion . In addition total RNA was purified from cells of four squamous cell carcinoma derived cervical cell lines SW756 C4 1 CaSki SiHa and from an adenocarcinoma derived cervical cell line HeLa using the mirVana miRNA Isolation Kit Ambion according to the manufacturer s protocol. In all cases purified total RNA was quantified using a NanoDrop ND 1000 spectrophotometer NanoDrop Technologies Wilmington Del. USA . Tables 2 3 and 4 below show information regarding the nine matched Ca NAT cervical samples Table 2 the sixteen normal cervical samples NCX Table 3 and the cervical cell lines CL Table 4 

The inventors first evaluated miRNA expression in normal cervical tissue samples. miRNA expression profiling was performed as previously described Shingara et al. 2005 except that the miRNA fractions recovered from 20 g total RNA were labeled with Cy5 GE Healthcare Life Sciences Piscataway N.J. USA . To isolate miRNA fractions total RNA samples were fractionated and purified using the flashPAGE fractionator and reagents catalog AM13100 Ambion according to the manufacturer s recommendations. Labeled miRNAs were hybridized to mirVana miRNA Bioarrays V1 Ambion according to the manufacturer s instructions. The arrays contained 377 individual miRNA probes including 281 human miRNAs from the mirBase Sequence Database microrna.sanger.ac.uk Griffiths Jones et al. 2006 33 new human miRNAs Ambi miRs and 63 mouse or rat miRNAs from the mirBase Sequence Database.

Following hybridization the arrays were scanned using the Axon GenePix 400B scanner and associated GenePix software Molecular Devices Corporation Sunnyvale Calif. USA . Raw array data were normalized with the variance stabilization method VSN Huber et al. 2002 . VSN is a global normalization process that stabilizes the variance evenly across the entire range of expression and utilizes calibration of signal followed by transformation of data to a generalized natural logarithmic space in lieu of the traditional logarithm base 2 transformation. Absolute values and differences in VSN transformed expression are denoted by H and H respectively and were used for all subsequent data analyses. Differences in normalized expression values between samples H were transformed to a generalized fold change via exponentiation base e. These values exhibit a compression for small differences in expression. For each array the minimum observable threshold was determined by examining the foreground minus background median intensities for EMPTY spots. The minimum threshold was defined as 5 symmetric trimmed mean plus 2 standard deviations across all EMPTY spots on an individual array. For an overview of miRNA processing and analysis see Davison et al. 2006 .

The inventors first characterized miRNA expression profiles from 16 normal cervix specimens Table 5 . Approximately 200 miRNAs were detected above background signal Mean NCX 2.87 . These included 171 human miRNAs 17 miRNAs previously identified in mouse or rat and 15 new human miRNAs Ambi miR 7027 7029 7039 7058 7068 1 7070 7075 7076 7079 7081 7083 7085 7100 7101 and 7105 . Pair wise t test comparison analyses revealed no statistically significant differences in cervical miRNA expression between Caucasian n 11 and African American n 4 patients or between older over 50 years of age and younger less than 50 years of age patients.

To identify miRNAs enriched or uniquely expressed in the normal cervix the inventors performed a global comparison of miRNA expression between the 16 normal cervix samples and a reference set of human tissues. miRNA expression in 33 different human tissues was determined using the same microarray platform described above. The human reference set consisted of FirstChoice Total RNA samples Ambion isolated from 33 distinct tissues adipose adrenal aorta bladder bone marrow brain breast colon duodenum esophagus fallopian tube heart ileum jejunum kidney liver lung lymph node muscle ovary pancreas pituitary placenta prostate small intestine spleen stomach testis thymus thyroid trachea uterus and vena cava.

The inventors observed that mean expression levels for 103 human miRNAs in the normal cervix samples were significantly different from the mean expression levels in the 33 reference human tissues Table 6 . These include 94 miRNAs previously identified in humans hsa miRNAs and nine new human miRNAs ambi miRs . Of these 41 miRNAs expressed at higher levels in the cervix samples showed an expression increase greater than 2 fold whereas 25 miRNAs expressed at lower levels in the cervix samples showed an expression decrease greater than 2 fold. Several human miRNAs hsa miR 205 196b 203 503 196a 99a 187 and Ambi miR 7083 and 7101 were enriched by at least five fold H NCX REF 1.6 in normal cervix samples compared to the reference tissues whereas two human miRNAs hsa miR 7 and 215 were underexpressed by at least five fold H NCX REF 

miRNAs potentially relevant to carcinogenesis frequently exhibit differential expression in cancer versus normal samples collected from the same tissue type. In addition miRNAs with differential expression in normal and cancerous samples may be used in the diagnosis of pre cancerous and cancerous lesions. To identify miRNAs that may be useful for diagnosis of the most common type of cervical cancer cervical squamous cell carcinoma the inventors used the microarray platform described in Example 2 to compare global miRNA expression in nine cervical squamous cell carcinomas and nine paired normal adjacent tissue samples from the same patients. The results are shown below in Table 7. On average 244 miRNAs were detected above background 2.32 in normal adjacent tissues from cancer patients and 208 miRNAs were detected above background 2.64 in cervical tumors.

The miRNA expression data from the nine Ca and nine NAT samples Table 7 were normalized together with the data from the 16 NCX samples Table 5 . Mean miRNA expression levels are altered in the nine squamous cell carcinomas Ca when compared to miRNA expression levels in the adjacent normal cervical samples NAT and in the 16 normal cervix samples NCX Table 8 .

The inventors identified 107 human miRNAs 96 hsa miRNAs and 11 ambi miRNAs whose average expression levels were significantly different between the nine squamous cell carcinomas Ca and the nine samples from adjacent normal regions of the cervixes NAT in the same patients Table 8 Flag NAT vs Ca 1 . Among these miRNAs 53 were down regulated H NAT Ca 0.69 and 21 were up regulated H NAT Ca 1.6 . Three miRNAs hsa miR 205 141 and 182 were up regulated more than 5 fold in Ca samples versus NAT samples H NAT Ca 

The inventors identified 133 human miRNAs 121 hsa miRNAs and 12 ambi miRNAs whose average expression levels were significantly different between the nine cervical tumor samples Ca and the sixteen normal cervical samples NCX Table 8 Flag NCX vs Ca 1 . Among these miRNAs 70 were down regulated H NCX Ca 0.69 and 27 were up regulated H NCX Ca 1.6 . Seven miRNAs hsa miR 205 183 31 224 182 21 and 203 were up regulated more than 5 fold in Ca samples versus NCX sample H NCX Ca 

Overall 103 human miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed between the cancer samples Ca and both the normal cervix samples NCX and the normal adjacent tissue samples NAT . Thirty human miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed between Ca and NCX samples that were not significantly differentially expressed between Ca and NAT samples. Four distinct human miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed between Ca and NAT samples that were not significantly differentially expressed between Ca and NCX samples.

Unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis as determined by ANOVA on the global miRNA expression in the 34 samples 16 NCX 9 Ca and 9 NAT showed a clear segregation of the cancer samples away from the two normal tissue sample groups. Additional clustering and principal component analyses on all expressed miRNAs also showed clear segregation of the cancer samples from the two normal tissue sample groups. Similar results were obtained for principal component analysis of the miRNAs that were differentially expressed among the three groups.

The data described in this example demonstrate that miRNA expression analysis can be used to distinguish a cancerous cervical tissue sample from a normal non cancerous cervical tissue sample. The inventors have shown that specific miRNAs are differentially expressed up regulated or down regulated in cancerous cervical tissue as opposed to normal cervical tissues. Comparing the expression levels of these specific miRNAs in a cervical tissue sample that is suspected of being cancerous with their expression levels in a reference non cancerous cervical tissue sample can indicate whether or not the suspect tissue sample is cancerous.

Microarray profiling of cervical squamous cell carcinomas and normal primary tissues using the microarrays described in Example 2 identified 103 mis regulated differentially expressed miRNAs between the cervical cancer samples and both normal sample types Table 8 . The inventors identified 23 miRNAs that were differentially expressed with at least a 5 fold change between the Ca and NCX or NAT samples and a p value

To verify array data the inventors performed real time qRT PCR reactions for 12 of the top 23 miRNAs in Table 9 with very distinct expression patterns between cervical squamous cell carcinomas Ca and normal adjacent tissues NAT or normal cervix NCX samples hsa miR 1 15b 133a 143 205 21 204 195 100 99a 368 and 183 and one miRNA with no significant change hsa miR 16 which was used for normalization. qRT PCR reactions were performed using TaqMan MicroRNA Assays Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. USA according to the manufacturer s instructions. Reactions included 15 ng of total RNA per reaction and were incubated in the 7900HT Fast Real Time PCR System Applied Biosystems . Initial data analysis was done using the 7500 Fast System SDS 2.3 software. The inventors analyzed the 34 samples previously profiled 16 NCX and 9 paired Ca and NAT samples .

As illustrated in the relative variations of miRNA expression levels were very similar for qRT PCR and array data. All 34 samples showed the expected miRNA expression patterns characteristic of normal cervix normal adjacent tissue and squamous cell carcinoma thus validating the array data. This was further confirmed after performing pair wise comparisons between qRT PCR and array data for each paired Ca NAT sample.

The inventors sought to determine if the top 23 misregulated miRNAs in cervical cancer Table 9 could distinguish precancerous cervical squamous epithelial lesions from normal cervical samples. The inventors evaluated miRNA expression in three cervical squamous intraepithelial lesions SILs also known as cervical intraepithelial neoplasias CINs Table 10 . Pathological analysis classified two lesions SIL1 SIL2 as low grade LSIL and one SIL3 as high grade HSIL .

miRNA expression analysis was carried out as described in Example 2 except that 7 g of total RNA from each SIL sample were hybridized to the arrays. To avoid introducing a bias due to the differences in the mass input amounts for array analysis of the various samples SIL NCX Ca NAT the inventors used the non parametric rank product method Breitling et al. 2004 for identifying differentially expressed genes. Rank Product RP uses fold change to assign ranks for all features in a dataset providing reliable and sensitive results. Importantly RP does not depend on the variance calculation for every gene and therefore is powerful when a small number of replicates is available. The robustness of this method has been demonstrated in previous studies where the list of genes generated from RP and a Student s T test at a false discovery rate corrected p value of 5 were found in agreement Breitling et al. 2004 .

Using the RP method 29 human miRNAs were identified as the most differentially expressed miRNAs between the SILs and the sixteen normal cervix samples based on the rank value and an estimated percentage of false positive PFP of 5 . Table 11 . Among those 15 miRNAs were down regulated Table 11 FC NCX SIL 1 and 14 miRNAs were up regulated in SILs Table 11 FC SIL NCX 1 compared to NCX. Interestingly 11 out of the 15 miRNAs down regulated in SILs were among the miRNAs down regulated by at least 2 fold in Ca versus NCX miR 1 133a 187 204 145 143 125a 376a 505 100 and 99a . It is also noteworthy that miR 1 which is the most significantly down regulated miRNA in the cervical cancers of our series was also the most down regulated miRNA in SILs. Among the 14 miRNAs up regulated in SILs compared to the normal cervix samples eight miRNAs miR 141 205 146a 200b 182 203 21 and 31 were also up regulated by at least 2 fold in the Ca samples compared to NCX samples. The presence of numerous identical miRNAs differentially expressed between Ca and NCX samples and between SIL and NCX samples suggests that misregulation of these miRNAs is likely an early event in cervical tumorigenesis.

The data described in this example demonstrate that miRNA expression analysis can be used to distinguish a pre cancerous cervical squamous intraepithelial lesion SIL or a cervical intraepithelial neoplasia CIN from normal non cancerous cervical tissue. Specific miRNAs are differentially expressed up regulated or down regulated in cervical SILs CINs . Comparing the expression levels of these specific miRNAs in a cervical tissue sample that is suspected of being pre cancerous with their expression levels in a reference non cancerous cervical tissue sample can indicate whether or not the suspect tissue is pre cancerous.

The inventors determined miRNA expression profiles of five cervical cancer derived cell lines using the same microarray platform described in Example 2. To compare miRNA expression profiles miRNA expression data from the five cervical cancer cell lines CL were normalized together with the data described in earlier examples from the nine pairs of cervical tumors Ca and normal adjacent tissue specimens NAT and from the sixteen normal cervix samples NCX Table 12 .

On average 186 miRNAs were detected above background in the cell lines corresponding to 49.5 of the miRNAs present on the array. As more than 200 miRNAs were detected above background in the normal cervix cervical cancer and normal adjacent tissue specimens this indicates that expression of some miRNAs is lost in the cell lines evaluated here. Thirty three miRNAs expressed in normal cervix samples 27 miRNAs expressed in cervical tumor samples and 41 miRNAs expressed in normal adjacent tissue samples were not expressed above background levels in the cell lines.

One hundred and forty five human miRNAs 130 hsa miRNAs and 15 ambi miR5 had significantly different expression levels between the cell lines and the normal cervix samples Table 12 Flag CL vs NCX 1 . Among these miRNAs 83 were down regulated and 39 were up regulated by at least 2 fold in the CL samples FC CLvsNCX 2.0 . Of these 48 miRNAs were down regulated by more than 5 fold in the CL samples H CL NCX 

Hierarchical clustering and principal component analysis on the global miRNA expression data showed a clear segregation between the cell line samples CL and the three tissue samples Ca NAT NCX . Further the normal cervix NCX and normal adjacent tissue samples NAT clustered away from the cervical tumor samples Ca and the cell lines CL . This observation was confirmed by pair wise comparison of Pearson correlation values calculated using mean normalized data for the 377 individual miRNAs on the array Table 13 . Overall the mean miRNA expression levels in cell lines correlated better with expression levels in cervical cancer samples than with expression levels in normal adjacent and normal tissue samples.

Among the nine cervical cancer specimens Ca analyzed 4 were identified as positive for HPV16 3 were positive for HPV18 1 was positive for both HPV16 and HPV18 and 1 was negative for both HPV16 and 18 as determined by RT PCR using specific primers for the E6 open reading frames of HPV 16 and HPV 18. To investigate whether miRNA expression profiles could help distinguish between HPV16 positive and HPV18 positive cervical cancers a pair wise t test comparison was performed between the four HPV16 positive cancers and the three HPV18 positive cancers. No statistically significant differences were observed between the microRNA expression profiles of HPV16 positive and HPV18 positive cervical cancers.

Similarly a pair wise t test comparison between the three cell lines that are HPV18 positive and the two cell lines that are HPV16 positive did not reveal any miRNAs with significantly different expression between the two groups.

Analyses of global miRNA expression profiles Table 5 Table 7 differentially expressed miRNAs Table 8 Table 12 and the top 23 differentially expressed miRNA markers Table 9 indicated that miRNA expression can distinguish normal and cancerous cervical tissues. To take this classification one step further the minimal set of miRNAs that could discriminate between cancerous and non cancerous tissues were identified by applying a quantitative RT PCR analysis of mature miRNAs. The inventors found that the difference between raw Ct values of two miRNAs miR 1 and 21 fulfilled the criteria . qRT PCR experiments performed on the 34 samples NCX CA NAT showed a perfect segregation between normal cervix NCX cervical cancer Ca and normal adjacent tissue NAT with a p value of 1.36 10.

microRNA containing fractions were recovered from 10 g of total RNA isolated from each RNA sample using the FlashPage fractionation system Ambion Inc. . Purified small RNAs were enzymatically biotinylated at the 3 termini and hybridized to a custom made Affymetrix based microRNA array Asuragen s DiscovArrays V.1 containing probes for 14 215 verified and candidate miRNAs from a number of sources including Sanger miRBase v9.2 database http microrna.sanger.ac.uk sequences and published reports. Hybridization washing staining imaging and signal extraction were performed as recommended by the manufacturer except that the 20X GeneChip Eukaryotic Hybridization Control cocktail was omitted.

The signal processing implemented for the Ambion miRCHIP is a multi step process involving probe specific signal detection calls background estimate and correction constant variance stabilization and either array scaling or global normalization. For an overview of miRNA processing and analysis see Davison et al. 2006 . For more details see supplementary information.

Each probe on an array is assayed for detection based on a Wilcoxon rank sum test of the miRNA probe signal compared to the distribution of signals from GC content matched anti genomic probes. If the resulting p value for the probes is 0.06 then it is considered Detected above background. Probes with p values 0.06 have insufficient signal to discriminate from the background and are thus considered not detected.

The same set of anti genomic probes used to determine detection calls are used to estimate GC content matched background signals. Each miRNA probe signal has a GC content matched background estimate subtracted from its value. This GC specific background contribution is estimated by the median signal from the distribution of GC matched anti genomic probes.

Probes with low signal often exhibit a high degree of variability once transformed into logarithmic scales. To stabilize this low signal variability we add a constant value of 16 to the background corrected signal. This technique is commonly performed on microarray data. It was the recommended data preprocessing method by Affymetrix and Illumina in the MicroArray Quality Control MAQC project.

The data were normalized with the VSN method Huber et al. 2002 Szafranska et al. 2007 . Briefly VSN is a global normalization process that stabilizes the variance evenly across the entire range of expression. Differences in VSN transformed expression are denoted by Log 2 diff and were used for all subsequent data analyses. Differences in normalized expression values between samples Log 2 diff can be transformed to a generalized fold change via exponentiation base 2. These values will exhibit a compression for small differences in expression.

Nine cervical cancer specimens Ca1 Ca9 and four normal cervix samples NCX3 NCX10 NCX13 and a new normal cervix sample NCX17 were analyzed by the DiscovArray miRNA Expression Profiling Service Asuragen . The DiscovArray microarray contains probes for 994 miRNAs from Sanger miRBase V9.2 Griffiths Jones et al. 2006 467 human miRNAs 234 rat miRNAs 293 mouse miRNAs and 12 894 predicted human miRNAs see world wide web page at asuragen.com services discovarray.html .

One hundred forty four miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed between NCX and Ca samples by at least 2 fold Table 14 . Of those 136 were down regulated Log 2 Diff Ca vs NCX 1.0 and 8 were up regulated Log 2 Diff Ca vs NCX 1.0 in Ca samples compared to NCX samples. Sixty three 63 miRNAs were down regulated in Ca samples by more than 5 fold Log 2 Diff Ca vs NCX 2.3 with a p value

miRNA expression in six cervical cancer specimens Ca1 4 Ca6 and Ca8 and six normal cervix samples NCX1 3 NCX10 NCX13 and NCX16 were further evaluated using the Human miRNA Microarray V2 Agilent Technologies Inc. Santa Clara Calif. USA . The Human miRNA Microarray contains probes for 723 human and 76 human viral microRNAs from the Sanger database v.10.1. Samples for miRNA profiling studies were processed by Asuragen Services Asuragen Inc. Austin Tex. USA . Total RNA from each sample 200 ng was dephosphorylated and the pCp Cy3 labeling molecule was ligated to the 3 end of the RNA molecules. The labeled RNA was purified using a Bio Spin P 6 column Bio Rad Laboratories Inc. Hercules Calif. USA . Array hybridization washing staining imaging and signal extraction were performed according to Agilent s recommended procedures.

The signal processing implemented for the Agilent miRNA array is a multi step process involving probe specific signal detection calls background correction and global normalization. For each probe the contribution of signal due to background was estimated and removed by the Agilent Feature Extraction software as part of the data file output. Similarly detection calls were based on the Agilent Feature Extraction software. Arrays within a specific analysis experiment were normalized together according to the VSN method described by Huber et al. 2002.

Three types of data are provided to evaluate each hybridization. The Total Gene Signal is the total probe signal multiplied by the number of probes per gene and is calculated after the background effects have been accounted for. The Total Gene Error is the square root of the square of the total probe error multiplied by the number of probes per gene. The Total Probe Error is the robust average for each replicated probe multiplied by the total number of probe replicates. The Detection Call is a binary number that indicates if the gene was detected on the miRNA microarray. Probes detected at least once across all samples in the experiment were considered for statistical analysis.

The inventors have found that the Variance Stabilization Normalization VSN algorithm provides an ideal balance of accuracy and precision while optimizing sensitivity and specificity of signal. One advantage of VSN is that it accommodates negative values by using the generalized logtransformation.

The post normalized data scale is reported as generalized logdata. The distribution of microarray data is typically log normal i.e it tends to follow a normal distribution pattern after log transformation . A normal distributed data is amendable to classical statistical treatments including t tests and one way or two way ANOVA.

For statistical hypothesis testing a two sample t Test with assumption of equal variance was applied. This test is used to define which probes are considered to be significantly differentially expressed or significant based on false discovery rate set at 0.05.

A total of 382 human miRNAs were expressed above background level in the normal cervix samples representing 53 of the miRNAs present on the arrays. A total of 337 miRNAs were expressed above background level in the tumor samples representing 46.6 of the miRNAs present on the arrays.

A total of 202 human miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed between NCX and Ca samples Table 15 . Among these 129 were down regulated Log 2 diff NCX vs Ca 1 and 41 were up regulated Log 2 diff NCX vs Ca 1 by more than 2 fold in Ca samples compared to NCX samples. Thirty three miRNAs were down regulated in Ca samples by more than 5 fold Log 2 diff NCX vs Ca 2.3 with a Student t test p value 0.001. Of those 7 miRNAs hsa miR 204 133b 1 133a 885 5p 99a and 143 were down regulated in Ca samples by more than 10 fold Log 2 diff NCX vs Ca 3.3 . Among the miRNAs up regulated in Ca samples 11 miRNAs hsa miR 205 135b 182 31 31 96 224 141 21 183 and 944 were up regulated by more than 5 fold compared to NCX with a Student t test p value 0.005.

The following references to the extent that they provide exemplary procedural or other details supplementary to those set forth herein are specifically incorporated herein by reference.

