---

title: Methods and systems for carrier activation using information from an existing profile
abstract: A platform included in a device can be configured to execute instructions to operate the device. The platform can be configured to setup connectivity to a network provided by a data service provider by having an activated account with the data service provider. To activate the account, the platform can be configured to determine that subscription information requested by the data service provider is included in an existing profile associated with the device. Responsive to the determination the subscription information is included in the profile, the platform can be configured to provide information from the profile as the subscription information to activate the account with the data service provider and receive subscriber-level connectivity to the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253617&OS=09253617&RS=09253617
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09253617
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130930
---
Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

A mobile device such as a phone or tablet can be configured to access a carrier s data network. For example the device can be configured to allow access to the carrier s website to purchase or add data service to the device but otherwise prevent access to the Internet. For example a warm SIM subscriber identity module can be provided by the carrier and included with the device with instructions to allow the device to utilize the carrier s network only to access the carrier s billing website. When the user of the device is directed to the carrier s website the user may provide subscription information e.g. identity and or payment information to the carrier to activate an account and receive data connectivity through the carrier s network.

In one example a method is provided that comprises determining by a platform configured to operate a device a profile associated with the device. The method further comprises determining a data service provider based on configuration instructions included in a memory accessible by the platform. The device may be configured to communicate via a network provided by the data service provider based on the device being associated with an activated account with the data service provider. The activation of the account with the data service provider authorizes the device to receive subscriber level connectivity to the network. The method further comprises receiving by the platform a request from the data service provider for subscription information to activate the account associated with the device. The method further comprises determining that the subscription information requested by the data service provider is included in the determined profile associated with the device. Responsive to determining that the subscription information is included in the profile the method further comprises providing information from the profile to the data service provider as the subscription information. The method further comprises receiving the subscriber level connectivity to the network based on the device being associated with the activated account with the data service provider.

In another example a device is provided that comprises a network communication interface configured to provide connectivity to a network provided by a data service provider based on the device being associated with an activated account with the data service provider. Activation of the account with the data service provider authorizes the device to receive subscriber level connectivity to the network. The device further comprises an input interface configured to receive input pertaining to a profile associated with the device. The device further comprises one or more processors and data storage configured to store instructions executable by the one or more processors. The instructions cause the device to determine the data service provider based on configuration instructions included in the data storage receive a request from the data service provider for subscription information to activate to the account determine that the subscription information is included in the determined profile responsive to the determination that the subscription information is included in the profile provide information from the profile to the data service provider as the subscription information and receive via the network communication interface the subscriber level connectivity to the network based on the device being associated with the activated account with the data service provider.

In another example a computer readable medium is provided. The computer readable medium can have instructions stored therein that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions comprise determining by a platform configured to operate the computing device a profile associated with the computing device. The functions further comprise determining a data service provider based on configuration instructions included in a memory accessible by the platform. The computing device may be configured to communicate via a network provided by the data service provider based on the computing device being associated with an activated account with the data service provider. The activation of the account with the data service provider authorizes the computing device to receive subscriber level connectivity to the network. The functions further comprise receiving by the platform a request from the data service provider for subscription information to activate the account associated with the computing device. The functions further comprise determining that the subscription information requested by the data service provider is included in the determined profile associated with the computing device. Responsive to determining that the subscription information is included in the profile the functions further comprise providing information from the profile to the data service provider as the subscription information. The functions further comprise receiving the subscriber level connectivity to the network based on the computing device being associated with the activated account with the data service provider.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying figures.

The following detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures similar symbols identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative system device and method embodiments described herein are not meant to be limiting. It may be readily understood by those skilled in the art that certain aspects of the disclosed systems devices and methods can be arranged and combined in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are contemplated herein.

Some mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets collect profile information from the user of the device. For example during setup of the device the device may collect information such as username password first name last name form of payment and or billing address for inclusion into the profile. In another example the collected information may be added to the profile during setup of an online service such as an online application store or an email account by the user of the device. In some cases the profile that includes the collected information may include subscription information that a carrier requires to authorize access to the carrier s network. However the user of the device may be required to enter this information during setup of the device via the device s native platform and again during setup of the carrier data service via the carrier s web platform.

An electronic device can include a native platform configured to execute instructions from one or more applications to operate the electronic device. The electronic device can be configured to receive connectivity to a network via a data service provider based on the electronic device having an activated account with the data service provider. In examples where the electronic device does not have the activated account the data service provider may request subscription information from the device to activate the account or to create a new activated account for the device. Within examples described herein a device is provided that includes a native platform configured to operate the device and to provide the subscription information to the data service provider from information included in a profile associated with the device. The device can be for example a digital camera computing device wearable device mobile device cellular phone tablet etc. Thus for example a user of the device can activate the account without entering the information in the profile again for submission to the data service provider. Additionally to entering the information only once in some examples the user will not be required to interact with an application or website other than the native platform of the device for provision of the subscription information. In other examples the native platform of the device may automatically populate the user interface of the data service provider e.g. billing website with the information in the profile as the subscription information required by the data service provider to authorize access to the carrier s network.

In some examples the data service provider may request the device to obtain a configuration package of the data service provider e.g. carrier specific service provider application . For example the configuration package may include operating instructions e.g. communication protocol encoding instructions etc. for the platform to communicate over the data service provider s network. Thus the device may obtain the configuration package from various locations. In one example the configuration package may be obtained from a memory included in the device e.g. internal flash memory etc. or a memory removably mounted to the device e.g. Subscriber Identity Module SIM card USB drive etc. . In another example the configuration package may be obtained via the network provided by the data service provider. For example the data service provider may authorize the device to access a server that includes the configuration package. In yet another example the configuration package may be obtained via an alternative network other than the network provided by the data service provider such as a Wifi network or a Local Area Network LAN that the device has access to. For example the device may be a tablet that can access multiple networks including the network of the data service provider and a second network e.g. Wifi Internet connection . In this example the device may search for the configuration package for example in the internet accessible via the second network to obtain the configuration package.

The device includes a communication interface configured to provide the device with connectivity to one or more networks. The device also includes an input interface such as a keyboard mouse buttons touchscreen display etc. The device also includes a processor and a memory comprising instructions executable via a platform by the processor to operate the device . The memory can include the platform and a profile .

The device may comprise a computing device such as a cellular phone smartphone digital assistant digital electronic device digital camera body mounted computing device e.g. eye glasses with computing capability tablet device or any other computing device configured to receive connectivity to one or more networks via the communication interface . Although not illustrated in the device can include additional components such as a display a camera an input port e.g. Universal Serial Bus port or any other physical component configured based on instructions from the platform executable by the processor to operate the device .

The communication interface can be configured to provide the connectivity between the device and one or more networks. For example the communication interface can include circuitry coupled with one or more antennae to communicate wirelessly over a wireless medium e.g. Bluetooth Wifi Broadband etc. or circuitry coupled with a communication port to communicate over a wired medium e.g. Ethernet etc. . The communication interface can be configured to receive instructions and or information for transmission to from remote devices and or systems. For example the communication interface can be configured to receive instructions from the platform to communicate information via the communication signal with the data service provider . Additionally or alternatively in some examples the communication interface can be configured to receive requests and or information from the remote devices and or systems e.g. from data service provider .

The input interface can be configured to receive input for the device for processing by the processor based on instructions provided by the platform . The input interface can include for example circuitry coupled to one or more keyboards buttons microphones touchpads touch screen displays or any other component configured to provide input to the device . Although illustrated in that the input interface is included in the device in some examples the input interface can be an external component. For example the input interface can be a wireless keyboard configured to provide signals via the communication interface e.g. via Bluetooth that correspond to input for the device .

The processor included in the device may comprise one or more processors configured to execute instructions from the platform to operate the device . The memory can include one or more memories e.g. flash memory Random Access Memory RAM solid state drive disk drive etc. that include software components configured to provide instructions pertaining to operation of the device . In some examples the memory can include a data storage memory configured to store data pertaining to the device such as the profile . Additionally or alternatively in some examples the memory can include a program logic memory e.g. RAM that includes the platform . Additionally or alternatively the memory may comprise a module that can be removably mounted to the device e.g. SIM USB Drive etc. . In some examples the memory can be one physical component configured to store data and or application components described above. In other examples the memory can be more than one physical component configured to store data and or application components described above. Additionally the memory can include more software components than illustrated in . For example the memory can include one or more applications e.g. email application phonebook application etc. configured to provide operating instructions to the platform to operate the device . In another example the memory can include one or more application programming interfaces APIs configured to interface between the platform and the communication interface the server and or the data service provider .

The profile includes information associated with the device and or a user of the device . For example the profile can include identity information e.g. first name last name home address username password etc. and or payment information e.g. credit card number bank account number billing address etc. . In some examples the information in the profile can be obtained during setup of the device . For example the device can be configured to receive input via the input interface corresponding to the information in the profile when the user of the device sets up the device for the first time and or resets the device . In another example the user of the device can input the information in the profile at a time other than during setup of the device such as when there is a change in the information e.g. new credit card number new address etc. or any other time. In yet another example the user of the device can input the information in the profile during setup of an online service such as an online store or an email account. In some examples the device can be configured to store the profile including the received information from the input interface in the memory .

The platform executes operating instructions to operate via the processor the device . In some examples the platform can be a native platform e.g. platforms that operate smartphones tablets etc. accessible by other software components included in the memory and configured to execute instructions pertaining to operation of the device . For example the platform can execute instructions to receive input from the input interface and include the received input in the profile or display output to a display panel not shown in . Additionally or alternatively in some examples the platform can be an operating system of the device . In some examples the platform can be configured to determine the profile . For example the platform can be configured to receive the stored profile from the memory as described above. In some examples the platform can be configured to create and or obtain the profile based on input received via the input interface .

In some examples the device can be configured to communicate via the communication signal with the data service provider to receive subscriber level connectivity to the network . For example the subscriber level connectivity may include authorized access for communication with other devices over the network. In some examples the data service provider may provide limited connectivity e.g. only to a billing website of the data service provider until receiving subscription information from the device and then provide subscriber level connectivity after receiving the subscription information and activating an account for the device . The data service provider may comprise a communication system external to the device . For example the data service provider may comprise a cellular network carrier. Although not illustrated in in some examples the data service provider can include a gateway configured to control subscriber level connectivity by the device to the network . The data service provider can control aspects e.g. service type of the connectivity between the device and the network such as maximum bit rate of data connectivity or voice call quality of voice connectivity.

To facilitate providing the subscriber level connectivity at the service type e.g. service level the data service provider can include an accounts dataset with information pertaining to an account of the device and or other accounts of other devices. The accounts data set may comprise for example a database that includes information about the account of the device and or other devices that are configured to receive subscriber level connectivity to the network via the data service provider . In some examples the account dataset can include more than one database. For example the account dataset can have a first database with information pertaining to the account of device and a second data base with information pertaining to an account of another device. In some examples the accounts dataset can be included in one or more physical memories. For example the accounts dataset can be on one server or on multiple servers e.g. cloud of servers . In this example the data service provider can be configured to obtain information in the account of the device from the accounts dataset .

The account of the device in the accounts dataset can include various information such as status of the account e.g. activated deactivated etc. service type associated with the account e.g. maximum bit rate of data connection amount of data available to device etc. and or other user information e.g. user name etc. . By having the account with the data service provider the device can receive access to the network at the authorized service type when the account is activated.

The network may comprise a transport network e.g. internet local area network wide area network cellular network broadband network etc. that the device can be configured to communicate through. In some examples the network may comprise a public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched network e.g. internet or any other network that provides subscriber level connectivity between the device and one or more electronic devices connected to the network .

The system can optionally include the server . The server may comprise a remote server e.g. computing device cloud computing system etc. accessible to the device . In some examples the server can be accessible to the device via a network other than the network . For example the server can be accessible over a WIFI network not shown in where the network can be a cellular network that does not include the WIFI network. In other examples the server can be accessible via the network .

The system can optionally include the SIM configured to be removably mounted to the device . In some examples the SIM can be configured to include information similar to the memory . For example the SIM may include the profile the configuration instructions corresponding to the data service provider and or other information accessible to the device e.g. applications saved data etc. when the SIM is mounted to the device .

In some examples the server can be configured to store information for the device . Although illustrated that the profile is stored in the memory additionally or alternatively in some examples the profile can be stored on the server . For example the platform can be configured to obtain the profile from the server based on authentication information input via the input interface . For example a user of the device may enter the authentication information e.g. username and password and the platform can provide the authentication information to the server to receive the profile .

The system for example may provide a native experience for a user of the device to obtain subscriber level connectivity to the network via the data service provider . The native experience can be provided for example by allowing the user to interact with the platform and configure the platform to perform all communication and provision of information to the data service provider to authorize access to the network and or activate the account of the device with the data service provider . As described above the data service provider may request the device to have the activated account with the data service provider to receive the subscriber level connectivity to the network . For example the data service provider may allow limited connectivity e.g. only for communication regarding submission of subscription information until activating the account. In some examples the data service provider may request subscription information to activate the account associated with the device . For example the device may not have the account with the data service provider or the account of the device may be deactivated e.g. for non payment . In this example provision of the subscription information may cause the data service provider to create the account for the device and or activate the account. In some examples the platform can determine that the subscription information is included in the profile . Thus in these examples the platform can be configured to provide information from the profile as the subscription information to the data service provider to receive the subscriber level connectivity to the network . In this case the user will not need to input the information repetitively once for the profile and another time for the data service provider . Additionally in this case the user will only input the information via the native platform and not through another interface e.g. webpage provided by the data service provider . In an example where the data service provider provides another interface e.g. billing webpage the platform can be configured to automatically populate the interface provided by the data service provider with the information from the profile .

Below is an example scenario for the operation of the platform in the device to receive the subscriber level connectivity to the network from the data service provider . In this scenario the device may comprise a wireless device such as a smartphone or tablet and the data service provider may comprise a carrier such as a wireless cellular carrier.

In this scenario the platform can be configured to determine the profile . For example the profile can be created based on input during setup of the device or by receiving the profile from the server as described above. In some examples obtaining the profile from the server can happen during activation of the account with the data service provider .

In this scenario the platform can also be configured to determine the data service provider based on configuration instructions in the memory . In some examples the configuration instructions identifying the data service provider as a provider accessible to the device can be included in the SIM . In this example the SIM may comprise a warm SIM that provides information allowing the device to access the carrier website via the network e.g. access the data service provider billing webpage . In other examples the configuration instructions can be in the memory comprising physical memory in the device e.g. RAM etc. as described above in the description of the memory .

In some examples the platform can be configured to attempt to receive subscriber level connectivity to the network via the data service provider via the communication signal . For example the data service provider may provide limited connectivity to the device for provision of subscription information to activate the account and provide the subscriber level connectivity once the account is activated. In some examples the data service provider may authorize the subscriber level connectivity to the network if the device has the activated account with the data service provider . However in this scenario the data service provider may respond with a request for subscription information from the device to activate the account. For example the device may be a new device that does not have an account with the data service provider or the account may be deactivated e.g. for non payment .

Rather than direct the user of the device to a website of the carrier e.g. as instructed by the configuration instructions in the warm SIM in the system the platform can be configured for example to determine that the subscription information requested by the data service provider is included in the determined profile associated with the device . Thus in some examples the platform can be configured to provide information from the profile as the subscription information to the data service provider . In this scenario the data service provider may activate the account of the device due to the provision of the subscription information and thus the device may receive the subscriber level connectivity to the network .

In some examples the platform can be configured to provide the subscription information to the data service provider after receiving authorization input from the user of the device . For example the data service provider may request sensitive information such as payment information and or identity information and the platform may request the authorization input from the user of the device to authorize the provision of the sensitive information to the data service provider .

In some examples where the profile is included in the server not shown in the platform can be configured to provide instructions to the server that cause the server to provide the subscription information to the data service provider . For example the server when instructed by the platform may communicate directly with the data service provider and provide the subscription information based on information from the profile .

In some examples the device can be configured to receive via the input interface selection input indicative of a selected service type pertaining to the network . For example the selection input may correspond to a maximum bit rate of data connectivity bandwidth selection amount of data quality of voice calls etc. In these examples the platform can be configured to provide the selected service type along with the information from the profile as the subscription information to the data service provider . Thus in these examples the data service provider may provide the subscriber level connectivity to the network having the selected service type.

In some examples the data service provider may request the platform to obtain a configuration package of the data service provider . For example in this scenario the request may include a name of a carrier software package or application configuration package that includes operating instructions for the platform to communicate over the network provided by the carrier. The operating instructions for example may include a communication protocol e.g. FTP UTP custom protocol encryption protocol packet format etc. specific for communication between the platform and the data service provider . In these examples the platform can be configured to obtain the configuration package based on receiving the request. In some examples the configuration package can be included in the memory e.g. physical memory of phone the SIM when mounted to the device etc. . Thus in these examples the device can be configured to obtain the configuration package from the memory . In other examples the platform can be configured to obtain the configuration package via the network . For example the data service provider can allow the device to access a server such as server or other data storage medium accessible via the network to obtain the configuration package. In yet other examples the device can be configured to have access to a second network e.g. WIFI network Bluetooth network Local Area Network etc. other than the network and configured to obtain the configuration package via the second network.

Some embodiments of the system therefore provide the native experience to the user of the device by performing communication with the data service provider without invoking an interface of the data service provider e.g. web page etc. . In some examples future communication e.g. after activating account between the device and the data service provider can be performed via the native interface of the platform . For example the platform can be configured to provide reminders to the user of the device when a payment is due or provide an interface for the user of the device to update and or adjust the service type of the account with the data service provider .

It is noted that the block diagram shown in is described in connection with functional modules for convenience in description. For example while the functional block in shown as the profile can be included in the memory the profile does not necessarily need to be implemented as being physically present on the memory but can be present in another memory included in the device included in a second device not shown in or in the server . In some examples embodiments of the device can be arranged with one or more of the functional modules subsystems implemented in a single chip integrated circuit and or physical component.

In some examples the device can be configured to receive connectivity to one or more networks such as a first network a second network and or a third network via respectively communication signals . The communication signals can be similar to the communication signal described in the system e.g. wireless wired etc. . The first network and the second network can be similar to the network described in the system . For example connectivity to the first network and or the second network can be controlled respectively by first data service provider and or second data service provider . In some examples the function and operation of the first data service provider and the second data service provider can be similar to the function and operation of the data service provider described in the system . For example the first data service provider may provide limited connectivity to the device for submission of information to activate an account and then provide subscriber level connectivity when the account is activated. The third network can be a network accessible by the device without a data service provider such as a WIFI network local area network LAN wide area network WAN or any other network accessible via the communication interface .

The memory can include for example a profile and a platform similar respectively to the profile and the platform described in the system . However in some examples the platform can be configured to communicate via a first application programming interface API and or a second API through the communication interface to interact respectively with the first data service provider and or the second data service provider .

In some examples the first API may comprise an application separate from the platform configured to interface through the communication interface with the first data service provider . For example the first API may comprise a back end API that receives instructions and information from the platform or any other application and facilitates the communication of the instructions and information to the first data service provider . Similarly the second API can be configured to facilitate communication with the second data service provider . Thus in some examples the first API and the second API may comprise separate applications configured to relay communication from the platform or any other application respectively to the first data service provider and the second data service provider .

As noted above the device can be configured to receive connectivity to one or more networks via one or more data service providers. In some examples the memory includes configuration instructions corresponding to a plurality of data service providers. For example the device may detect that the first data service provider and the second data service provider are available data service providers for the device to receive connectivity respectively to the first network and or the second network . In an example where the device is a mobile device e.g. mobile phone tablet etc. and the first and second data service providers are cellular network providers in some examples the device can be configured to receive a selection input of one of the data service providers to attempt receiving subscriber level connectivity from. In this example a user of the device may select one of the first data service provider or the second data service provider to receive data connectivity from e.g. the device may comprise an unlocked mobile device . In these examples the device can be configured to determine the data service provider to communicate through based on the input selection.

Similarly to the device of the system in some examples the device can be configured to obtain a configuration package of the first data service provider and or the second data service provider based on a request from the corresponding data service provider. In some examples the configuration package may include operating instructions for the platform to communicate with the corresponding data service provider e.g. carrier platform specific software package . Additionally or alternatively in some examples the device can be provided with the first API and or the second API that include the operating instructions included in the configuration package. For example during manufacture and or setup of the device the device may be provided with one or more APIs e.g. first API and second API that include the operating instructions for a plurality of data service providers e.g. first data service provider and second data service provider . Thus in this example a user of the device can interact with the native platform to provide information such as information in the profile and select one or more of the first and second data service providers to receive connectivity from. Further in some examples the backend adapters e.g. first and second APIs can be configured to perform communication with the corresponding data service providers for functions such as provision of subscription information from information in the profile and activation of an account as described in the system based on the selections of the user. Thus in some examples the first and second APIs provide an alternative mechanism for provision of subscription information and account management with data service providers in addition to mechanisms described earlier such as via server and or platform of the system . Further in some examples the platform can be configured to provide information from the profile and instructions to the first and or second APIs to perform the provision of subscription information and or activation of the account. In this case the first and or second APIs can be configured to communicate respectively with the first and or second data service providers based on the instructions and information received from the platform .

In examples where the configuration package is obtained based on a request from the first and or second data service providers the third network can be utilized via the communication interface to obtain the configuration package. For example the third network may comprise an internet connection to a server that includes the configuration package of one or more of the data service providers . In this example the platform can be configured to receive the configuration package from the server via the third network . Further in this case the provision of subscription information to activate the account and receiving subscriber level connectivity to the first and or second networks may be performed for example by the platform based on the configuration package received via the third network . For example the third network may comprise a WIFI network that the platform utilizes to receive the configuration package of the first data service provider to setup subscriber level connectivity to the first network e.g. broadband network provided by the first data service provider .

Additionally or alternatively although not illustrated in in some examples a plurality of configuration packages can be included in the memory corresponding to a plurality of data service providers such as the first and second data service providers . In these examples the platform can be configured to determine a particular configuration package of the plurality of configuration packages corresponding to the data service provider selected by the user of the device . For example the user of the device may select the second data service provider and the platform can be configured to provide the particular configuration package from the memory that corresponds to the second data service provider as the configuration package of the second data service provider . Thus these examples provide another alternative mechanism to obtain the configuration package such as when a plurality of configuration packages is provided in the memory during manufacture and or setup of the device . In some examples the plurality of configuration packages can be provided in a SIM removably mounted to the device along with configuration instructions for the corresponding data service providers e.g. list of data service providers accessible by the device and the platform can be configured to obtain the corresponding configuration package from the SIM.

Some embodiments of the system therefore provide methods for receiving subscriber level connectivity to one or more networks via one or more data service providers while maintaining a native experience for the user of the device . For example subscription information and account management can be performed by the native platform or a server similar to server of the system on behalf of the user of the device using information from the profile without re entering such information in a data service provider specific interface e.g. webpage warm SIM provided interface etc. . Additionally or alternatively in some examples the system provides methods for obtaining configuration packages of the data service providers e.g. carrier specific code for interaction with the data service providers including receiving the configuration packages from memory via the third network and or via the first and second networks provided by the first and second data service providers . Additionally or alternatively in some examples the system provides methods for communication with data service providers using separate APIs such as the first and second APIs .

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment a portion of a manufacturing or operation process or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes determining a profile associated with a device by a platform configured to operate the device.

In one example the device can be a smartphone configured to connect to a network of a given carrier e.g. the data service provider . The device can have a profile stored thereon with information about a user of the device. For example the user may have entered information in the past e.g. personal information payment information etc. via the platform for use in an application e.g. email application phonebook application etc. . Further the platform can be configured to store this information for later use in the profile e.g. the platform configured to determine the profile .

At block the method includes determining a data service provider based on configuration instructions included in a memory accessible by the platform. The device can be configured to communicate via a network provided by the data service provider based on the device being associated with an activated account with the data service provider. Activation of the account with the data service provider authorizes the device to receive subscriber level connectivity to the network.

In this example the device can be configured to determine the data service provider e.g. the given carrier based on configuration instructions in a memory of the device e.g. the device can include instructions provided by the carrier and or manufacturer of the device to connect to the carrier s network . Additionally or alternatively in some examples the memory can include configuration instructions for receiving network connectivity through a plurality of carriers and the user can select the data service provider from the plurality of carriers. In this example the data service provider may provide subscriber level connectivity to the network if the device has an activated account with the data service provider e.g. the user is subscribed to a data plan or a voice plan with the carrier .

At block the method includes receiving a request from the data service provider by the platform for subscription information to activate the account associated with the device.

In this example the platform can be configured to attempt to connect to the data service provider s network and in response receive a request from the data service provider for subscription information to activate the account associated with the device. For example the user of the device may not have the account e.g. data plan voice plan etc. with the data service provider or the account may be deactivated e.g. for non payment etc. .

At block the method includes determining that the subscription information requested by the data service provider is included in the determined profile associated with the device.

For example the profile may include the payment information and or the personal information described in block . Additionally or alternatively in some examples the platform can be configured to poll the user of the device to authorize the platform to provide the information in the profile to the data service provider.

At block the method includes providing information from the profile to the data service provider as the subscription information in response to determining that the subscription information is included in the profile.

For example the platform can provide the subscription information over the network provided by the data service provider or provide instructions to a server e.g. online store to provide the information to the data service provider.

At block the method includes receiving the subscriber level connectivity to the network based on the device being associated with the activated account with the data service provider.

For example the data service provider may activate the account of the user of the device e.g. activate the voice plan or data plan of the user in response to receiving the subscription information and thus provide the subscriber level connectivity to the network.

At block the method includes receiving input indicative of information to be included in a profile associated with a device during setup of the device.

In an example scenario for the method a user acquires a tablet e.g. the device that includes a platform configured to operate the tablet to execute applications e.g. email application camera application etc. and receive subscriber level connectivity to one or more networks e.g. packet switched network public switched transport network etc. . During setup of the device the platform can be configured to receive input e.g. the tablet can launch a setup wizard to collect the input indicative of information to be included in a profile associated with the device. For example the user of the tablet may setup an online store that allows the user to buy applications e.g. bookstore application etc. for the device and setting up an online store account may include providing information e.g. credit card information legal name address etc. that in some examples may be included in the profile.

At block the method includes storing the profile including the received information in a memory accessible by a platform configured to operate the device based on the received input.

For example the user of the device may instruct the platform to save the information collected during setup of the device in the profile for future use or the platform may be configured to automatically save the information in the profile for example in the online store account. In some examples the memory may comprise a physical memory included in the device e.g. Random Access Memory Flash Memory etc. . In other examples the memory may comprise a removably mounted memory e.g. Subscriber Identity Module USB Drive etc. . In yet other examples the memory may comprise a data storage e.g. hard drive solid state memory etc. in the device or in a remote server accessible by the device e.g. via Internet connection .

At block the method includes determining a data service provider. The device can be configured to communicate via a network provided by the data service provider based on the device being associated with an activated account with the data service provider.

In some examples the user of the device may have also acquired a warm Subscriber Identity module SIM that includes configuration instructions that identify a data service provider as an accessible provider for the device to receive subscriber level connectivity to a network of the one or more networks e.g. a broadband data network such as a 3G or 4G network a voice calling network etc. . A warm SIM can be for example a SIM that includes instructions for the data service provider to whitelist access to specific portions of the network even if the device does not have an activated account with the data service provider e.g. by issuing a captive portal redirect from carrier pointing to carrier billing website . Rather than directing the user of the device to the specific portion e.g. carrier billing website in this example the platform can be configured to determine the data service provider based on the configuration instructions.

At block the method includes receiving a request from the data service provider by the platform for subscription information to activate the account associated with the device.

In this example the platform can be configured to attempt to access the network through the data service provider. For example in this scenario the tablet can attempt to connect to the internet via the network of the data service provider. Thus in this example the platform may receive a request from the data service provider for subscription information to activate the account of the device with the data service provider in order to receive the subscriber level connectivity to the network. For example in this scenario the carrier may intercept the attempt from the tablet having an unpaid warm SIM and issue the captive portal redirect to the carrier s billing website and the platform can determine the request for the subscription information based on the captive portal redirect. Additionally or alternatively in some examples the carrier may include a software package name e.g. configuration package of the data service provider where the software package includes operating instructions for the platform to communicate over the network e.g. communication protocol of the carrier etc. . Thus in some examples the platform can be configured to determine the request and or the configuration package by parsing the software package name from the request of the data service provider. Further in these examples the platform can be configured to obtain the configuration package of the data service provider. For example in this scenario the setup wizard of the tablet can optionally download the software package via the network of the data service provider another network e.g. WIFI network accessible by the platform or from the memory included in the device.

At block the method includes obtaining the stored profile from the memory during activation of the account with the data service provider in response to receiving the request from the data service provider.

For example the platform may begin activation of the account with the data service provider due to receiving the request for subscription information from the data service provider receiving input from the user of the device requesting activation of the account and installation of the configuration package and or based on the configuration instructions in the memory e.g. instructions to activate the account at the conclusion of setup of the device . In these examples the device can be further configured to obtain the stored profile from the memory to facilitate the activation of the account. For example the user of the device may indicate to the platform to use information from the profile to complete the activation process or the device may determine that information from the platform can be used to complete the activation process.

At block the method includes determining that the subscription information requested by the data service provider is included in the obtained profile.

For example the platform may determine that payment information in the requested subscription information has been previously entered by the user of the device when setting up the online store in block .

At block the method includes providing information from the profile to the data service provider as the subscription information in response to determining that the subscription information is included in the profile.

For example the platform can be configured to utilize public APIs to submit the information from the profile to the data service provider without having the user of the device repetitively enter the information that is in the profile. In some examples the platform can be configured to provide the information from the profile to the data service provider after receiving authorization from the user of the device to provide the information. In some examples the user may also select a service type to include in the subscription information provided to the data service provider. For example the user of the tablet can select an amount of data to purchase from the data service provider and the profile can be configured to provide the selected amount selected service type along with the information from the profile as the subscription information to the data service provider.

Additionally in some examples the provision of the subscription information to the data service provider can cause the data service provider to activate the account of the device and thus the device can receive the subscriber level connectivity to the network.

Thus the method and other methods and systems presented in this disclosure provide a native experience via the platform of the device to setup the activated account for subscriber level connectivity to the network provided by the data service provider. Such native experience can include for example a single interface e.g. the platform for entering information once into the profile and without the use of an interface provided by the data service provider provisioning subscription information and or account management instructions to the data service provider by the platform using information from the existing profile.

At block the method includes determining a profile associated with a device by a platform configured to operate the device. The profile can be included in a server accessible by the platform.

For example the user of a device e.g. smartphone can have a profile e.g. account with an online store in a remote server e.g. accessible via internet such as online stores used to buy and download applications that run on the smartphone. In this example a platform configured to operate the device can also be configured for example to provide the server having the profile with authentication information to identify and obtain access to the profile associated with the device.

At block the method includes determining a data service provider based on configuration instructions included in a memory accessible by the platform. The device can be configured to communicate via a network provided by the data service provider based on the device being associated with an activated account with the data service provider. Activation of the account with the data service provider authorizes the device to receive subscriber level connectivity to the network.

For example the device can be configured to receive subscriber level connectivity to a network provided by a data service provider e.g. broadband data access in a cellular network when the device has an activated account with the data service provider. For example before having the activated account the data service provider may allow the device limited connectivity only for submission of information to activate the account. In this example the platform can be configured to determine the data service provider based on configuration instructions in the memory of the device e.g. the memory can include a list of available data service providers .

At block the method includes receiving a request from the data service provider by the platform for subscription information to activate the account associated with the device.

For example the user of the device may not have an established account with the data service provider or the account may be deactivated.

At block the method includes determining that the subscription information requested by the data service provider is included in the determined profile associated with the device.

At block the method includes providing instructions to the server that cause the server to provide information from the profile to the data service provider as the subscription information in response to determining that the subscription information is included in the profile.

At block the method includes receiving the subscriber level connectivity to the network based on the device being associated with the activated account with the data service provider.

For example where the profile is in the server of the online store the platform can be configured to provide information e.g. username password payment amount etc. and instructions to the server to provide the information from the profile to the data service provider as the subscription information. Thus in this example the data service provider may activate the account of the device and the device can be configured to receive subscriber level connectivity to the network based on having the activated account.

At block the method includes determining by a platform configured to operate a device a profile associated with the device.

For example a device may comprise a personal digital assistant PDA that includes the profile with information about the user of the PDA e.g. identity information address payment information authentication information etc. .

At block the method includes determining a data service provider wherein the device is configured to communicate via a network provided by the data service provider based on the device being associated with an activated account with the data service provider.

For example the data service provider may comprise a gateway in a public network configured to provide access to the network if the device has an activated account with the gateway.

At block the method includes receiving by the platform a request from the data service provider for subscription information to activate the account associated with the device and for the platform to obtain a configuration package of the data service provider wherein the configuration package includes operating instructions for the platform to communicate over the network.

For example the gateway may have a software package that includes operating instructions for the device to communicate with the gateway and or the network provided through the gateway.

For example the platform may obtain the configuration package from the gateway from a network other than the network of the data service provider from the memory of the device or from a remote server accessible by the platform.

At block the method includes determining that the subscription information requested by the data service provider is included in the profile.

At block the method includes responsive to determining that the subscription information is included in the profile providing based on the operating instructions in the obtained configuration package information from the profile to the data service provider.

For example the profile may include payment information requested by the gateway to create the activated account or activate a deactivated account of the device. Responsive to the determination in this example the platform can further be configured to provide information from the profile e.g. the payment information based on the operating instructions in the configuration package to the data service provider as the subscription information. For example the operating instructions may instruct the platform to provide the subscription information using a specific communication protocol e.g. FTP UDP etc. and or encryption code.

As noted above in some embodiments the disclosed techniques e.g. methods and can be implemented by computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable storage media in a machine readable format or on other media or articles of manufacture e.g. the instructions stored on the memory of the device of the system or the instructions stored on the memory of the device of the system . is a schematic illustrating a conceptual partial view of an example computer program product that includes a computer program for executing a computer process on a computing device arranged according to at least some embodiments disclosed herein.

In one embodiment the example computer program product is provided using a signal bearing medium . The signal bearing medium may include one or more programming instructions that when executed by one or more processors may provide functionality or portions of the functionality described above with respect to . In some examples the signal bearing medium can be a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium can be a computer recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium can be a communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example the signal bearing medium can be conveyed by a wireless form of the communications medium .

The one or more programming instructions can be for example computer executable and or logic implemented instructions. In some examples a computing device such as the processor equipped devices and of can be configured to provide various operations functions or actions in response to the programming instructions conveyed to the computing device by one or more of the computer readable medium the computer recordable medium and or the communications medium . In other examples the computing device can be an external device such as a server or personal computer in communication with a data service provider such as the data service providers and or of .

The computer readable medium can also be distributed among multiple data storage elements which could be remotely located from each other. The computing device that executes some or all of the stored instructions could be an external computer or a mobile computing platform such as a smartphone tablet device personal computer wearable device etc. Alternatively the computing device that executes some or all of the stored instructions could be remotely located computer system such as a server. For example the computer program product can implement the functionalities discussed in the description of .

Within examples operation methods that are described for the disclosed devices can be applied to other devices that are configured to receive subscriber level connectivity to one or more networks provided by one or more data service providers. For example medical devices special purpose computers digital cameras home appliances and computer automated vehicles can perform the functions described herein to receive subscriber level connectivity to the one or more networks provided by the one or more data service providers. Thus example methods herein provide a native platform for provision of subscription information and account management with any data service provider without a user having to repetitively enter information that is in an existing profile.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location or other structural elements described as independent structures may be combined.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

