---

title: Systems and methods to generate a receipt for a transaction
abstract: A system includes a transaction terminal that is configured to examine an authorization response for an indicator, which, when set, causes the transaction terminal to communicate with a portal to obtain content relevant to the receipt for the transaction approved by the authorization response. The content may identify the benefit of an offer applied to the transaction, which is not reflected in the authorization response. The content may direct the user to select an option regarding the delivery of the receipt. Options presented for selection include suppression of the printing of the paper receipt in favor of an electronic receipt transmitted to a communication reference of the user, printing a mini paper receipt in addition to transmitting an electronic receipt, and/or printing the full paper receipt at the transaction terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08880431&OS=08880431&RS=08880431
owner: Visa International Service Association
number: 08880431
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
The present application claims priority to Prov. U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 61 612 197 filed Mar. 16 2012 and entitled Systems and Methods to Generate a Receipt for a Transaction the entire disclosure of which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 648 849 filed Oct. 10 2012 and entitled Systems and Methods to Provide Discount at Point of Sales Terminals and U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0125565 published May 26 2011 and entitled Systems and Methods for Multi Channel Offer Redemption the disclosures of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

At least some embodiments of the present disclosure relate to the processing of payment transactions such as payments made via credit cards debit cards prepaid cards etc. and the redemption of the benefits of offers such as coupons deals discounts rewards etc.

Millions of transactions occur daily through the use of payment cards such as credit cards debit cards prepaid cards etc. Payment processing systems involving acquirer systems issuer systems transaction handlers to interconnect the acquirer systems and issuer systems etc. have been developed to facilitate secure and efficient communications among parties involved in the payment transactions.

For example U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2009 0271262 published Oct. 28 2009 discloses a first authorization request generated to include split payment data. After the first authorization request message is analyzed using a server computer a second authorization request message is sent to a first service provider and a third authorization request message is sent to a second service provider to facilitate the split payment according to the split payment data.

Offers such as coupons deals discounts rewards etc. typically involve benefits that are provided to the recipients of the offers after the redemption requirements of the respective offers are satisfied. A typical requirement involves the purchase of a product or service relevant to the corresponding offer.

Processing payments and offers using substantially separate systems have drawbacks such as inefficient use of computation resources for security measures and processing duplicative allocation of computation resources for the separate systems time delay from the time when redemption requirements of offers are satisfied and the completion of the provisioning of the benefits of the offers etc.

Some systems have been developed to at least partially integrate the payment processing and the offer processing. For example U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0125565 published May 26 2011 discloses a system to associate an offer with an account of a user in a data warehouse in which a transaction handler is configured to identify a payment transaction in the account for a purchase eligible for the redemption of the offer. If the payment transaction is identified the transaction handler provides the benefit of the offer to the account of the user via statement credits. For example U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2009 0112721 published Oct. 28 2009 discloses a Value Added Service Engine programmed to determine a benefit associated with a product after receiving transaction information identifying the product and after communicating with a supplier of the product.

U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0312626 published Dec. 9 2010 discloses a transaction handler configured to receive an authorization request for a discount associated with an electronic coupon for a purchase. The electronic coupon has been received by the merchant to give the discount on a purchase by a consumer. The discount is to be debited from the sponsor account and credited to an account of the merchant.

U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0047019 published Feb. 24 2011 discloses a transaction handler configured to forward a coupon authorization request message identifying a sponsor account and a coupon from a merchant s acquirer to a sponsor account s issuer and when the coupon is eligible to forward the corresponding authorization response from the issuer to the acquirer.

U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0133351 published Jun. 5 2008 discloses a Method and Apparatus for Reward Messaging Discounting and Redemption at the Point of Interaction in which upon determining that the transaction is eligible for a discount the authorization request message is updated to indicate that it is a discount transaction and this updated authorization request message is then forwarded to the issuer or issuer processor for authorization. When a promo code is used by the POS terminal or merchant system to apply or calculate a discount amount at the point of interaction the full transaction price may be authorized by the issuer and full transaction price less the discount amount is then cleared and settled between the acquirer and the issuer after the transaction. When a promo code is not used the authorization system forwards an authorization request message to the issuer for the purchase amount less the discount.

U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2007 0011044 published Jan. 11 2007 discloses a host system configured to transmit an authorization request to a credit provider. After discounts available for application to the transaction are identified with the host system and from the identifier of a credit instrument a modified transaction having a total transaction cost reduced by application of at least one of the separate discounts is coordinated between the host system and the merchant.

The present application includes systems and methods configured to further improve the overall system performances including interoperability transaction integrity efficiency in processing payments in combination with offers time delay in processing resource allocation etc. and or to provide enhanced services.

In one embodiment a portal coupled to a transaction handler is configured to provide enhanced services related to the presentation of receipts. When an enhanced receipt service is available for a transaction approved via an authorization response transmitted to the acquirer processor and the transaction terminal the authorization response is configured to indicate the availability of the enhanced receipt service. A transaction terminal that is configured to have the capability of communicating with the portal to present the enhanced receipt service can use the indication provided in the authorization response to initiate the communication for enhanced receipt services and a conventional transaction terminal that lacks the same capability may ignore the indication provided in the authorization response. Thus the system is compatible with conventional transaction terminals that lack such a capability while still allowing the utilization of transaction terminals in the same network that supports such a capability and thus can provide enhanced services for users of the respective transaction terminals. Further details and examples are provided in the section entitled RECEIPT. 

For example the transaction handler of one embodiment is configured to determine whether a transaction in a payment account as identified in an authorization request received from an acquirer processor for the transaction is eligible for the benefit of an offer associated with the payment account and if so split the transaction originally requested in the payment account into two or more transactions with an issuer processor of the payment account and one or more sponsor processors of the offer to apply the benefit of the offer to the authorization request for the transaction requested. The two or more transactions are combined for the transaction terminal of the merchant and or the acquirer processor such that the details of the two or more transactions are insulated from the transaction terminal and or the acquirer processor. Thus a conventional transaction terminal and or a conventional acquirer processor can be used in the system configured to apply the benefit of an offer during the processing of a transaction initiated and completed at the transaction terminal. Further details and examples are provided in the section entitled SPLIT TRANSACTION. 

To facilitate offer redemption via the split transaction technique as identified above data associating offers with account information identifying the consumer accounts or payment accounts of the users can be stored in a data warehouse coupled with the transaction handler. For example in one embodiment of associating offers with consumer payment accounts a portal of the transaction handler is configured to store data representing offers and to associate user selected offers with the financial accounts of the respective users if the users select advertisements containing the offers. When the financial accounts are used to make payments processed by the transaction handler for purchases that satisfy the respective redemption conditions of the offers the transaction handler and or the portal are configured to detect such payment transactions and fulfill the offers in an automated way such as in the embodiment of the split transaction identified above.

For example the advertisement providing the offer can be configured to have multiple selectable regions when the advertisement is presented in a web browser of a user. Examples of offers include discounts incentives rebates coupons rewards cash back etc. One of the selectable regions contains a Uniform Resource Locator URL of the advertiser or merchant which when selected directs the user to the website of the advertiser or merchant. A separate one of the selectable regions contains a Uniform Resource Locator URL of the portal of the transaction handler which when selected directs the user to the portal for access to a user interface to register the offer with a financial account of the user. Examples of financial accounts of users include credit card accounts debit card accounts prepaid card accounts bank accounts etc. Some details and examples about associating offers with financial accounts are provided in the section entitled OFFER REDEMPTION. 

After the offer is associated with the financial account of the user the transaction handler and or the portal are configured to detect that the user is making a payment using the financial account for a purchase that satisfies the redemption requirements of the offer. In response to the detection the portal may optionally notify the user of the eligibility of the redemption of the offer using a communication reference associated with the financial account and the transaction handler and or the portal are configured to automate the processing of the offer for redemption such as using the split payment embodiment identified above or via statement credits to the financial account of the user or via benefits afforded via a loyalty program such as reward points loyalty points etc. Some details and examples about offer fulfillment operations are provided in the section entitled OFFER REDEMPTION. 

When an offer is sponsored by the merchant the transaction handler can be configured in one embodiment to apply the benefit of the registered offer during the authorization and or settlement of the transaction that meets the requirement for the redemption of the offer via modifying the transaction amount. For example the authorization amount can be changed by the transaction handler to provide the benefit of the registered offer during the authorization phase of the transaction in one embodiment and the settlement amount can be changed by the transaction handler to provide the benefit of the registered offer during the settlement phase of the transaction in another embodiment. Some details and examples about redeeming offer benefits via modifying transaction amounts are provided in the section entitled APPLY OFFER. 

Since the transaction handler records the transaction data for transactions made in various purchase channels such as online marketplaces offline in retail stores phone orders etc. the registered offer can be redeemed in an automated way without being limited by the channel used to make the purchase and limited by the context of the purchase. Thus the system provides a normalized real time online and offline redemption service for offers in combination with and integrated with the processing of payment transactions.

The transaction data such as records of transactions made via credit accounts debit accounts prepaid accounts bank accounts stored value accounts and the like can be further processed to optionally provide information for various services such as reporting benchmarking advertising content or offer selection customization personalization prioritization etc. In one embodiment of improving privacy protections users are required to enroll in a service program and provide consent to allow the system to use related transaction data and or other data for the related services and the system is configured to provide the services while protecting the privacy of the users in accordance with the enrollment agreement and user consent.

For example based on the transaction data an advertising network in one embodiment is provided to present personalized or targeted advertisements offers on behalf of advertisers. A computing apparatus of or associated with the transaction handler uses the transaction data and or other data such as account data merchant data search data social networking data web data etc. to develop intelligence information about individual customers or certain types or groups of customers. The intelligence information can be used to select identify generate adjust prioritize and or personalize advertisements offers to the customers. The transaction handler may be further automated to process the advertisement fees charged to the advertisers using the accounts of the advertisers in response to the advertising activities.

The receipt service indicator of one embodiment is an optional field which can be ignored by a transaction terminal that does not support the service that requires an out of band communication connection between the transaction terminal and the portal of the transaction handler . Thus the authorization response e.g. including the receipt service indicator is compatible with a legacy transaction terminal .

In a transaction terminal of a least one merchant is configured to support the enhanced receipt service. In response to the receipt service indicator provided in the authorization response the transaction terminal is configured to communicate with the portal to provide enhanced services as further discussed below.

In when the receipt service indicator in the authorization response indicates that the portal has information relevant to the receipt for the transaction corresponding to the authorization response the receipt service indicator causes the transaction terminal to fetch the relevant information from the portal for the specific transaction approved or rejected by the authorization response via an out of band communication channel that is separate from the communication channel used to submit the corresponding authorization request and to receive the corresponding authorization response .

In the transaction terminal is configured to transmit a receipt request to the portal in response to the receipt service indicator being set to a predetermined status. In response the portal is configured to provide relevant information about the receipt in a receipt response .

For example when an offer associated with account information in the data warehouse coupled with the portal and the transaction handler is determined to be applicable to the transaction identified by the authorization request the transaction handler is configured to apply the benefit of the offer to the transaction. The transaction handler may use one of the methods identified in the present disclosure to apply the benefit of the offer such as those discussed in the sections entitled SPLIT TRANSACTION OFFER REDEMPTION APPLY OFFER or other methods known in the field.

In to apply the benefit of the offer the transaction handler is configured to transmit separate authorization requests and to the issuer processor and the sponsor processor receive respective authorization responses and and combine the authorization responses and to generate the authorization response for the acquirer processor . Further details and examples about the technique can be found in the section entitled SPLIT TRANSACTION. 

In after the sponsor processor approves the benefit amount in accordance with the benefit of the offer afforded to the transaction the portal is configured to provide in the receipt response information identifying the benefit amount of the offer sponsored by the sponsor processor .

The receipt response of one embodiment includes an electronic version of the receipt and the transaction terminal is configured to print the electronic version of the receipt for presentation to the user .

The receipt response of one embodiment includes additional content to be included in the receipt generated by the transaction terminal and the transaction terminal is configured to insert the content at a predetermined location in the receipt generated by the transaction terminal or at a location selected from a plurality of optional predefined receipt locations.

For example the additional content to be inserted in the receipt produced by the transaction terminal may identify the benefit amount the transaction amount in the authorization response charged to the consumer account of the user and or other information such as an advertisement from the sponsor a summary of the offer progress statuses of the offer a balance of the loyalty reward points accumulated for the consumer account illustrated in a current balance of the consumer account etc.

The receipt response of one embodiment is configured to include a message identifying the application of the benefit of the offer to the transaction showing the reduced transaction amount approved by the authorization response from the issuer processor and or information about the offer such as an advertisement from the sponsor of the offer . Thus the receipt produced on the transaction terminal confirms the application of the offer to the current transaction approved via the authorization response .

In one embodiment the portal is configured to provide an enhanced receipt service by delivering a version of the receipt electronically using the communication reference associated with the account information of the user . For example the electronic receipt can be transmitted to the user via SMS email a social networking site a digital wallet a financial service site a financial service software etc. using the communication reference .

The portal may allow the user to specify a preference with regards to the receipt. For example a receipt option in one embodiment allows the user to receive an electronic version of the full receipt at the point of interaction identified by the communication reference and suppresses the printing of a paper version of the receipt at the transaction terminal .

For example a receipt option in one embodiment allows the user to receive an electronic version of the full receipt at the point of interaction and receive a mini paper receipt at the transaction terminal . In one embodiment the mini paper receipt omits purchase details of the payment and indicates the transaction amount that is charged to the consumer account and the benefit amount provided by the offer . In one embodiment the mini paper receipt is configured to make a reference to the electronic version of the receipt transmitted to the point of interaction at the communication reference and omit further details that are presented in the electronic version of the receipt.

The transaction terminal of one embodiment is configured to display the receipt response on a display device suppressing the paper receipt.

The transaction terminal can be optionally configured to present a user interface that provides a set of options to allow the user to suppress the full paper receipt to print a mini paper receipt and or to specify a destination for the electronic receipt.

The transaction terminal can be optionally configured to transmit to the portal the purchase details in the receipt request and the portal is configured to store the purchase details as part of or in association with the transaction record of the transaction approved by the authorization response .

Using the purchase details the portal can be optionally configured to generate the receipt response in the form of a full receipt including the purchase details . The transaction terminal can be optionally configured to present the receipt response in a user interface and allow the user to preview the receipt on the transaction terminal to suppress the printing of the full paper receipt prior to the user selecting an option to print a portion of the receipt as the mini paper receipt and or to direct the portal to transmit the electronic receipt to the point of interaction .

The portal is optionally configured in one embodiment to store a copy of the receipt and or the purchase details in the data warehouse and provide additional services based on the receipt and or the purchase details such as warranty bookkeeping recall notification etc.

The portal is optionally configured in one embodiment to use the receipt response to further direct the transaction terminal to provide relevant information and or receive input from the user .

For example the portal of one embodiment is configured to use the receipt response to direct the transaction terminal to prompt the user to redeem loyalty reward points accumulated in connection with the consumer account identified by the account information for the present transaction approved by the authorization response in a next transaction involving the account information .

For example the user may select a number of loyalty reward points in exchange for a further offer that can be applied to the next payment transaction with the same merchant or a different merchant.

For example the user may request the transaction handler to apply a number of loyalty reward points to the transaction approved by the authorization response during the settlement of the transaction.

In one embodiment after the user selects accepts a loyalty reward points redemption offer the user is enrolled in a recurring offer redemption program in which when the balance of loyalty reward points is above a threshold a new loyalty reward points redemption offer substantially identical or similar to the redemption offer previously selected accepted by the user is automatically generated and associated with the account information of the user for automated redemption in a subsequent qualified transaction e.g. a transaction that satisfies the benefit redemption requirement of the new loyalty reward points redemption offer . For example if the user selects a previous loyalty reward points redemption offer that allows the user to apply a predetermined number of loyalty reward points as a part of the payment for a transaction with a predetermined merchant where the transaction amount is above a predetermine threshold the new loyalty reward points redemption offer is automatically associated with the account information for the user in the data warehouse when the balance of the loyalty reward points of the user is above a threshold and the new loyalty reward points redemption offer allows the user to apply the same predetermined number of loyalty reward points as a part of the payment for a future transaction of an amount above the same threshold with the same predetermined merchant. In one embodiment the same loyalty reward points redemption offer is generated automatically based on the point balance of the user until the user selects accepts a different loyalty reward points redemption offer which is then used as a template for future automated recurring loyalty reward points redemption offers . In one embodiment the offer provides the benefit for loyalty reward points redemption according to a predetermined set of rules and conditions and when the loyalty reward points balance of the user is above a threshold the trigger record is generated for the offer to allow the detection of a transaction that satisfies the conditions of the offer and the application of the benefit of the offer to the detected transaction.

The portal is optionally configured in one embodiment to present a new offer to the user via the receipt response and receive user selection to accept the new offer or participate in the respective offer campaign.

The portal is optionally configured in one embodiment to use the receipt response to present various information about the consumer account such as the account type of the consumer account the reward level of the consumer account a message pre selected by the user the account balance of the consumer account the loyalty reward benefits accumulated for the consumer account conditions that have been satisfied for redemption of the benefit of the offer stored in association with the consumer account the logo of the issuer of the consumer account the logo of the sponsor of the offer redeemed in the transaction the logo of the merchant operating the transaction terminal the logo of an entity operating the transaction handler a piece of music representative of the issuer the sponsor the merchant or the entity operating the transaction handler etc.

In one embodiment the transaction terminal is configured to communicate with the portal using a communication channel e.g. the Internet that is not physically secured. To secure the communication between the transaction terminal and the portal the transaction terminal is configured to encrypt at least account information used to identify the consumer account for the transaction. For example in one embodiment the account information used to identify the consumer account in the receipt request is combined with a random number and encrypted for transmission through the communication channel between the transaction terminal and the portal .

In one embodiment the transaction terminal is optionally configured to further attach an identification number to the encrypted version of the account information in the receipt request and the portal uses the identification number in the receipt response to identify the receipt request .

To enhance communication security the transaction terminal and the portal use multiple separate channels in one embodiment. Each of the channels is used to carry a portion of the communications between the transaction terminal and the portal . Thus even if the security of one of the communication channels is compromised the security of the content transmitted between the terminal and the portal is not compromised.

In one embodiment the receipt request and or the receipt response is secured via data transmitted via the authorization request and or the authorization response . For example in one embodiment the receipt service indicator includes a code that is used to scramble or encrypt the receipt request and or the receipt response . For example in one embodiment a portion of the content to be transmitted from the transaction terminal is transmitted to the portal via an authorization request and the transaction handler and the portal is configured to combine the portion of the content received via the acquirer processor the transaction handler and the receipt request to recover the content to be transmitted from the transaction terminal . The recovered content may include the account information identifying the consumer account and or the purchase details .

If the computing apparatus determines that the authorization response has a receipt service indicator that is set to indicate an enhanced receipt the computing apparatus communicates with a portal of the transaction handler to obtain receipt content e.g. via the receipt request and the receipt response transmitted via a communication channel separate from the communication channel used to communicate with the acquirer processor .

In one embodiment in the communication session for receipt content the computing apparatus determines whether user interaction is requested and if so the computing apparatus communicates with the portal to provide a user interface on the transaction terminal to display content and receive input in accordance with requests from the portal .

If the computing apparatus determines that no enhanced receipt is to be provided the computing apparatus is configured to generate a receipt based on the authorization response .

In one embodiment the computing apparatus includes at least one of the transaction terminal the transaction handler the portal and the data warehouse as illustrated in . For example the transaction terminal is configured to detect the receipt service indicator in an authorization response the transaction handler is configured to provide the receipt service indicator in the authorization response the portal is configured to receive the receipt request and provide the receipt response and or provide other enhanced services and the data warehouse is configured to store the data related to the enhanced services such as the offer purchase details the trigger record for the offer etc.

The computing device can be implemented using one or more data processing systems as illustrated in having at least one microprocessor and memory storing instructions configured to instruct the at least one microprocessor to perform operations discussed above.

The computing device can be further implemented optionally to perform other operations discussed below such as the operations discussed in the section entitled TRANSACTION DATA BASED SERVICES. Some of the hardware arrangements are discussed in the sections entitled CENTRALIZED DATA WAREHOUSE and HARDWARE. 

For example the transaction handler discussed above can be used to record transaction data to provide transaction data based services as illustrated in and discussed in the section entitled TRANSACTION DATA BASED SERVICES .

In the offer is stored in the data warehouse in association with the account information of the payment account e.g. consumer account illustrated of the user e.g. illustrated in . The association of the offer with the account information allows the offer to be applied to transactions while the transactions are being processed by the transaction handler . Such an arrangement allows the reduction of processing time delay between the time at which redemption requirements of the offer are satisfied and the time at which the benefit of the offer is provided and or the time the redemption of the benefit of the offer is communicated to the respective user e.g. .

In since the transaction handler processes the plurality of transactions concurrently via the transmission of the authorization requests e.g. and the reception of the authorization response e.g. for the respective transactions the processing time delay is further reduced.

Further in since the generation of the plurality of transactions and combination of the plurality of transactions are arranged between the reception of the original authorization request from the acquirer processor and the transmission of the respective authorization response back to the acquirer processor the payment transaction and the benefit redemption and application would both be approved or rejected as a whole. Thus the integrity of the combined transaction and benefit redemption is improved.

In the centralized processing of payment transaction and offer benefit redemption allows improved computation resource allocation and improved computation efficiency when compared with implementations that require separate systems for payment processing and offer redemption or compared with implementations that require add on features in the acquirer processors and or the transaction terminals.

In in one embodiment of determining whether the original authorization request has an applicable offer e.g. a trigger record is used. A trigger record e.g. is configured to identify a standardized set of requirements to be satisfied by the authorization request to trigger an action identified in the trigger record . For the determination of whether the benefit of the offer identified by the trigger record is applicable to the authorization request the trigger record for the offer is generated to specify a subset of redemption requirements of the offer selected in accordance with the standardized set predetermined for the trigger records and the trigger record for the offer further identifies an action to process the offer if the requirements specified in the trigger record are satisfied.

Since requirements used in the trigger records are in the standardized set the operation of the transaction handler in determining whether an action requested in the trigger record is triggered by the authorization request can be optimized for performance improvement while supporting a variety of diverse services corresponding to actions that can be specified in trigger records e.g. such as the processing of the benefit redemptions of different offers that may have diverse redemption requirements. The use of the standardized set of requirements for trigger records can reduce and limit the performance impact on the transaction handler in processing payment transactions since not all requirements are initially examined by the transaction handler and the standardization permits optimized operation efficiency.

In the trigger record is generated for the transaction handler to monitor transactions processed by the transaction handler for the detection of transactions relevant to the offer . The trigger record includes a set of conditions to match against transactions that are processed by the transaction handler . When the conditions specified in the trigger record are not satisfied by a transaction the transaction is not relevant to the offer . When a transaction satisfies the conditions specified in the trigger record the trigger record further identifies a task to process the offer . The task includes determining whether all redemption requirements of the offer have been met and if so providing the benefit of the offer to the transaction such as via the generation of the multiple authorization requests e.g. which when combined correspond to the original authorization request . Thus the trigger record allows the transaction handler to trigger actions to process the offer while reducing the burden on the transaction handler in processing transactions not applicable to the offer thus improving the overall efficiency of the transaction handler in processing transactions that may or may not be relevant to offers e.g. in general.

The system illustrated in allows a conventional transaction terminal and or a conventional acquirer processor to be used to initiate a conventional authorization request while the redemption of the benefit of the offer can still be applied to the transaction when the redemption requirements are satisfied by the transaction identified by the conventional authorization request .

Further the system as illustrated in allows the benefit of the offer to be applied to a transaction initiated at the transaction terminal before the transaction is approved at the acquirer processor and the transaction terminal .

In the transaction terminal initiates the transaction via transmitting an authorization request to the acquirer processor which propagates the authorization request to the transaction handler . The transaction handler is configured to match the transaction against applicable trigger records e.g. to determine if a further action is to be triggered for the transaction corresponding to the authorization request . Although illustrates the use of the trigger records e.g. to identify applicable offers e.g. for incoming authorization requests e.g. the transaction handler may process the offers directly in alternative implementations without the use of the trigger records e.g. .

In if the authorization request satisfies the conditions of the trigger record the transaction handler is configured to process the offer identified by the matching trigger record .

The offer specifies a set of conditions which when satisfied allow a benefit sponsored by the sponsor processor to be applied to the respective transaction. Thus when the authorization request satisfies the trigger record generated for the offer the transaction handler and or the portal or a separate processor coupled with the transaction handler is configured to determine whether the entire set of the conditions of the offer is satisfied for the award of the benefit to the respective transaction in view of the authorization request received from the acquirer processor .

If the benefit of the offer is determined to be applicable to the transaction corresponding to the authorization request the transaction handler communicates an authorization request to the sponsor processor for the authorization of an amount to be applied to the transaction initiated on the transaction terminal and separately communicates an authorization request to the issuer processor for the authorization of an amount from the consumer account identified via the account information submitted by the transaction terminal to initiate the respective transaction.

In one embodiment of the generation of the authorization requests e.g. the transaction handler or the portal or a separate processor coupled with the transaction handler is configured to determine the transaction amounts for the authorization requests and based on the transaction amount requested in the authorization request received from the acquirer processor and the benefit specified in the offer .

In the transaction amount in the authorization request to the sponsor processor corresponds to the benefit of the offer which may be a fixed amount that is independent of the transaction amount requested in the authorization request received from the acquirer processor or a predetermined percentage of the transaction amount requested in the authorization request received from the acquirer processor .

In the transaction amount in the authorization request to the issue processor corresponds to the difference between the transaction amount requested in the authorization request received from the acquirer processor and the benefit of the offer that corresponds to the transaction amount in the authorization request to the sponsor processor .

Thus the transaction handler effectively splits the transaction corresponding to the authorization request received from the acquirer processor into two transactions corresponding to the authorization requests and to the issuer processor and the sponsor processor respectively.

In the transaction handler is configured to identify the issuer processor based on the account information identified in the authorization request received from the acquirer processor and to identify the sponsor processor based on the offer that is associated with the account information and identified via the trigger record .

In after the transaction handler receives the authorization responses and from the sponsor processor and the issuer processor respectively for the authorization requests and the transaction handler is configured to combine the authorization responses and received from the sponsor processor and the issuer processor respectively to generate an authorization response to the acquirer processor which further propagates the authorization response to the acquirer processor and the transaction terminal .

Since the authorization responses and are combined by the transaction handler to generate a single authorization response for the acquirer processor the implementation details of the application of the offer are separate from the transaction terminal and thus a conventional transaction terminal can be used to apply the benefit of the offer to the eligible transaction without a need for modification in hardware and or software. The transaction terminal submits the transaction authorization request and receives the authorization response as if the transaction were processed using the consumer account as identified by the account information and as if the transaction were processed without the involvement of the offer and or the sponsor processor .

The transaction terminal of one embodiment has no information about the application of the benefit of the offer to the transaction initiated and approved on the transaction terminal . The transaction terminal thus produces a receipt which may be interpreted to indicate that the entire transaction amount is funded by the consumer account identified by the account information . To inform the user of the applicable benefit of the offer the portal is configured to generate and send a message to the point of interaction e.g. a mobile phone a mobile computer a personal media player a personal digital assistant a tablet computer a digital wallet a social networking site an email inbox etc. identified by the communication reference associated with the account information of the user .

For example a text message is transmitted in accordance with the communication reference to a mobile phone of the user to inform the user of the application of the benefit of the offer to the transaction initiated and approved on the transaction terminal . Alternatively or in combination the notification about the awarded redeemed benefit of the offer can be transmitted via an email message a web based message a voice message etc.

The portal of one embodiment is configured to transmit the notification message about the award redemption of the benefit of the offer in response to the authorization responses and from the issuer processor and the sponsor processor prior to or in parallel with the transmission of the authorization response to the acquirer processor . Thus the transmission of the notification is substantially concurrent with the propagation of the authorization of the transaction to the transaction terminal . As a result the delay to the user reception of the notification is reduced.

The transaction handler is configured in one embodiment to further settle the transactions corresponding to the authorization responses and from the issuer processor and the sponsor processor to effectively complete the transaction corresponding to the authorization response to the acquirer processor .

In a computing device is configured to store data associating an offer sponsored by a sponsor account administrated by a sponsor processor with a consumer account that is under control of an issuer processor and associated with a communication reference . The offer may be sponsored by more than one sponsor account administrated by more than one sponsor processor connected in a payment communications network interconnected by a transaction handler e.g. .

In after the computing device receives an authorization request for a first transaction amount in the consumer account from an acquirer processor the computing device determines whether the offer is applicable to the first transaction amount and if not communicates with the issuer processor to obtain an authorization response for the first transaction amount without contacting the sponsor processor .

If the offer is applicable to the first transaction amount the computing device is configured to determine a second transaction amount applicable to the consumer account according to the offer and the first transaction amount and determine a third transaction amount applicable to a sponsor account according to the offer . The computing device communicates with the sponsor processor to obtain an authorization response for the third transaction amount and communicates with the issuer processor to obtain an authorization response for the second transaction amount.

If the computing device determines that the offer is applicable to the authorization request received from the acquirer processor the computing device is configured to combine the responses and from the issuer processor and the sponsor processor to generate the authorization response to the acquirer processor and transmit a notification about the benefit of the second transaction amount afforded by the offer using the communication reference .

If the computing device determines that the offer is not applicable to the authorization request received from the acquirer processor the computing device is configured to generate the authorization response based on the authorization response from the issuer processor .

The computing device communicates the authorization response for the first transaction amount to the acquirer processor as a response to the authorization request received from the acquirer processor .

Since the transaction terminal is arranged to process the transactions that may or may not involve the redemption of the benefit of the offers e.g. in a conventional way the system can be used with conventional transaction terminals e.g. without modification.

Preferably the authorization requests e.g. and the authorization responses e.g. are in accordance with existing standards and thus the system can be used with existing acquirer processors e.g. and issuer processors e.g. without modifications.

The computing device of one embodiment includes at least one of the data warehouse the transaction handler and the portal . For example the warehouse is configured to store data associating the offer the account information and the communication reference as illustrated in the transaction handler is configured to detect the authorization request that has a corresponding applicable offer to split the authorization request to generate multiple authorization requests and combine respective authorization responses and the portal is configured to transmit a notification of the application of the benefit of the offer to a point of interaction identified by the communication reference after the respective authorization responses are received.

In one embodiment the computing apparatus is configured at least in part via instructions to receive an authorization request e.g. identifying a transaction of a first amount in an account e.g. of a user e.g. and determine based on data e.g. and stored to associate an offer with the account whether a benefit of the offer e.g. is applicable to the transaction. In response to a determination that the benefit of the offer is applicable to the transaction the computing apparatus is further configured to communicate with a sponsor processor e.g. of the benefit for authorization of the benefit of a second amount communicate with an issuer processor e.g. of the account for authorization to a third amount determined from a difference between the first amount and the second amount and generate a third authorization response e.g. for the authorization request based on a first authorization response e.g. for the second amount from the sponsor processor e.g. and a second authorization response e.g. for the third amount from the issuer processor e.g. .

The authorization request e.g. may be received from an acquirer processor e.g. and the authorization response e.g. transmitted to the acquirer processor e.g. as a response to the authorization request e.g. where the authorization request e.g. identifies the account e.g. as a single source of payment for the transaction.

If the authorization request is referred to as a third authorization request in communicating with the sponsor processor the computing apparatus is configured in one embodiment to transmit to the sponsor processor a first authorization request identifying the benefit and receive the first authorization response and in communicating with the issuer processor the computing apparatus is configured to transmit to the issuer processor a second authorization request identifying a second transaction amount in the account and receive the second authorization response .

If the third authorization request identifies a third transaction amount in the account the computing apparatus is configured in one embodiment to determine the second transaction amount by reducing the third transaction amount according to the benefit of the offer.

In one embodiment the third authorization response is generated to approve the transaction if the first authorization response approves the benefit and the second authorization response approves the second transaction amount in the account and the third authorization response is generated to reject the transaction if the first authorization response rejects the benefit or the second authorization response rejects the second transaction amount in the account.

When the benefit of the offer of one embodiment is controlled by multiple sponsor processors in response to the determination that the benefit of the offer is applicable to the transaction the computing apparatus is configured to communicate with a further sponsor processor for authorization of a further benefit of the offer in addition to communication with the sponsor processor and the third authorization response is generated based on a further authorization response from the further sponsor processor the first authorization response and the second authorization response .

The computing apparatus may optionally store a trigger record identifying a first set of requirements and the offer for enhanced performance. When the trigger record is used the determining of whether the benefit of the offer is applicable to the transaction may include determining whether the transaction satisfies the first set of requirements specified in the trigger record and in response to a determination that the transaction satisfies the first set of requirements identifying the offer based on the trigger record and determining whether a second set of requirements of the offer are satisfied to qualify the transaction for the benefit.

The computing apparatus is configured in one embodiment to communicate with the sponsor processor and the issuer processor concurrently.

The computing apparatus can further store data e.g. associating a communication reference with the account of the user and transmit a notification about application of the benefit to the transaction concurrently with transmitting the third authorization response .

In one embodiment a transaction amount approved in the third authorization response is equal to the sum of a transaction amount approved in the first authorization response and a transaction amount approved in the second authorization response .

For example the computing apparatus includes a transaction handler in a payment communications network interconnected by the transaction handler and the computing apparatus uses the transaction handler to communicate with the sponsor processor and the issuer processor using on the payment communications network.

In one embodiment the computing apparatus includes a portal to transmit a notification of a reduction in transaction amount in the account reduced in accordance with the offer to the user at a communication reference associated with the account information of the user . When the authorization request is received from an acquirer processor the notification can be transmitted in parallel with transmission of the third authorization response to the acquirer processor .

In one embodiment to determine whether the benefit of the offer is applicable to the transaction the computing apparatus is configured to store a trigger record identifying the offer and a portion of requirements of the offer to be satisfied by the transaction to qualify for a benefit of the offer identifying the transaction based on matching the transaction with the portion of requirements and after the transaction and the offer are identified via matching the trigger record with transactions determining whether the transaction satisfies the requirements for awarding the benefit of the offer .

The computing apparatus has at least one processor and memory storing instructions configured to instruct the at least one processor to perform operations. For example the computing apparatus of one embodiment includes a data warehouse configured to store first data associating a communication reference with an account of a user and second data associating an offer with the account identified by the account information . The second data may include a trigger record identifying the offer and a first set of conditions that requires a transaction in the account to be satisfied. The offer has a benefit applicable to a transaction satisfying a second set of conditions that includes the first set. The computing apparatus further includes a transaction handler configured to process payment transactions to detect an authorization request for a first transaction when the first transaction satisfies the first set of conditions specified in the trigger record . After the authorization request is detected the computing apparatus identifies the offer based on the trigger record matching the first transaction and determines whether the second set of conditions is satisfied in view of the first transaction. If the second set of conditions is satisfied the transaction handler is configured to communicate with a sponsor processor of the benefit for authorization of the benefit communicate with an issuer processor of the account for authorization in the account and generate a third authorization response for the authorization request based on a first authorization response from the sponsor processor and a second authorization response from the issuer processor . The computing apparatus further includes a portal configured to transmit a notification to the communication reference about application of the offer to the first transaction concurrently with transmission of the third authorization response .

In one embodiment the notification is transmitted to the communication reference when the third authorization response approves the first transaction and the transaction handler is configured to concurrently transmit the first authorization request and the second authorization request .

In the system further includes a correlator to correlate user specific advertisement data with transactions resulting from the user specific advertisement data . The correlation results can be used by the profile generator to improve the transaction profiles .

The transaction profiles of one embodiment are generated from the transaction data in a way as illustrated in . For example in an aggregated spending profile is generated via the factor analysis and cluster analysis to summarize the spending patterns behaviors reflected in the transaction records .

In one embodiment a data warehouse as illustrated in is coupled with the transaction handler to store the transaction data and other data such as account data transaction profiles and correlation results . In a portal is coupled with the data warehouse to provide data or information derived from the transaction data in response to a query request from a third party or as an alert or notification message.

In the transaction handler is coupled between an issuer processor in control of a consumer account and an acquirer processor in control of a merchant account . An account identification device is configured to carry the account information that identifies the consumer account with the issuer processor and provide the account information to the transaction terminal of a merchant to initiate a transaction between the user and the merchant.

In one embodiment the transaction data relates to financial transactions processed by the transaction handler and the account data relates to information about the account holders involved in the transactions. Further data such as merchant data that relates to the location business products and or services of the merchants that receive payments from account holders for their purchases can be used in the generation of the transaction profiles .

In one embodiment the financial transactions are made via an account identification device such as financial transaction cards e.g. credit cards debit cards banking cards etc. the financial transaction cards may be embodied in various devices such as plastic cards chips radio frequency identification RFID devices mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs etc. and the financial transaction cards may be represented by account identifiers e.g. account numbers or aliases . In one embodiment the financial transactions are made via directly using the account information without physically presenting the account identification device .

In one embodiment the transaction handler couples with a centralized data warehouse organized around the transaction data . For example the centralized data warehouse may include and or support the determination of spend band distribution transaction count and amount merchant categories merchant by state cardholder segmentation by velocity scores and spending within merchant target competitive set and cross section. For example the centralized data warehouse may include the advertisement data and or offers of benefits such as discount reward points cashback etc. The offers can be communicated to the users e.g. via the advertisement data or as part of the advertisement data .

In one embodiment the centralized data warehouse provides centralized management but allows decentralized execution. For example a third party strategic marketing analyst statistician marketer promoter business leader etc. may access the centralized data warehouse to analyze customer and shopper data to provide follow up analyses of customer contributions to develop propensity models for increased conversion of marketing campaigns to develop segmentation models for marketing etc. The centralized data warehouse can be used to manage advertisement campaigns and analyze response profitability.

In one embodiment the centralized data warehouse includes merchant data e.g. data about sellers customer business data e.g. data about buyers and transaction records between sellers and buyers over time. The centralized data warehouse can be used to support corporate sales forecasting fraud analysis reporting sales customer relationship management CRM business intelligence credit risk prediction and analysis advanced authorization reporting merchant benchmarking business intelligence for small business rewards etc.

In one embodiment the transaction data is combined with external data such as surveys benchmarks search engine statistics demographics competition information emails etc. to flag key events and data values to set customer merchant data or event triggers and to drive new transactions and new customer contacts.

In the profile generator generates transaction profiles based on the transaction data the account data and or other data such as non transactional data wish lists merchant provided information address information information from social network websites information from credit bureaus information from search engines and other examples discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 614 603 filed Nov. 9 2009 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0054981 and entitled Analyzing Local Non Transactional Data with Transactional Data in Predictive Models the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the transaction profiles provide intelligence information on the behavior pattern preference propensity tendency frequency trend and budget of the user in making purchases. In one embodiment the transaction profiles include information about what the user owns such as points miles or other rewards currency available credit and received offers such as coupons loaded into the accounts of the user . In one embodiment the transaction profiles include information based on past offer coupon redemption patterns. In one embodiment the transaction profiles include information on shopping patterns in retail stores as well as online including frequency of shopping amount spent in each shopping trip distance of merchant location retail from the address of the account holder s etc.

In one embodiment the transaction handler and or the portal is configured to provide at least part of the intelligence for the prioritization generation selection customization and or adjustment of the advertisement for delivery within a transaction process involving the transaction handler . For example the advertisement may be presented to a customer in response to the customer making a payment via the transaction handler .

Some of the transaction profiles are specific to the user or to an account of the user or to a group of users of which the user is a member such as a household family company neighborhood city or group identified by certain characteristics related to online activities offline purchase activities merchant propensity etc.

The profile generator may generate and update the transaction profiles in batch mode periodically or generates the transaction profiles in real time or just in time in response to a request received in the portal for such profiles.

The transaction profiles of one embodiment include the values for a set of parameters. Computing the values of the parameters may involve counting transactions that meet one or more criteria and or building a statistically based model in which one or more calculated values or transformed values are put into a statistical algorithm that weights each value to optimize its collective predictiveness for various predetermined purposes.

Further details and examples about the transaction profiles in one embodiment are provided in the section entitled AGGREGATED SPENDING PROFILE. 

In one embodiment the transaction data is analyzed in connection with non transactional data to generate transaction profiles and or to make predictive models.

In one embodiment transactions are correlated with non transactional events such as news conferences shows announcements market changes natural disasters etc. to establish cause and effect relations to predict future transactions or spending patterns. For example non transactional data may include the geographic location of a news event the date of an event from an events calendar the name of a performer for an upcoming concert etc. The non transactional data can be obtained from various sources such as newspapers websites blogs social networking sites etc.

When the cause and effect relationships between the transactions and non transactional events are known e.g. based on prior research results domain knowledge expertise the relationships can be used in predictive models to predict future transactions or spending patterns based on events that occurred recently or are happening in real time.

In one embodiment the non transactional data relates to events that happened in a geographical area local to the user that performed the respective transactions. In one embodiment a geographical area is local to the user when the distance from the user to locations in the geographical area is within a convenient range for daily or regular travel such as 20 50 or 100 miles from an address of the user or within the same city or zip code area of an address of the user . Examples of analyses of local non transactional data in connection with transaction data in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 614 603 filed Nov. 9 2009 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0054981 and entitled Analyzing Local Non Transactional Data with Transactional Data in Predictive Models the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the non transactional data is not limited to local non transactional data. For example national non transactional data can also be used.

In one embodiment the transaction records are analyzed in frequency domain to identify periodic features in spending events. The periodic features in the past transaction records can be used to predict the probability of a time window in which a similar transaction would occur. For example the analysis of the transaction data can be used to predict when a next transaction having the periodic feature would occur with which merchant the probability of a repeated transaction with a certain amount the probability of exception the opportunity to provide an advertisement or offer such as a coupon etc. In one embodiment the periodic features are detected through counting the number of occurrences of pairs of transactions that occurred within a set of predetermined time intervals and separating the transaction pairs based on the time intervals. Some examples and techniques for the prediction of future transactions based on the detection of periodic features in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 773 770 filed May 4 2010 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0280882 and entitled Frequency Based Transaction Prediction and Processing the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Techniques and details of predictive modeling in one embodiment are provided in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 119 103 6 018 723 6 658 393 6 598 030 and 7 227 950 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment offers are based on the point of service to offeree distance to allow the user to obtain in person services. In one embodiment the offers are selected based on transaction history and shopping patterns in the transaction data and or the distance between the user and the merchant. In one embodiment offers are provided in response to a request from the user or in response to a detection of the location of the user . Examples and details of at least one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 767 218 filed Jun. 22 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0319843 and entitled Supply of Requested Offer Based on Point of Service to Offeree Distance U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 11 755 575 filed May 30 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0300973 and entitled Supply of Requested Offer Based on Offeree Transaction History U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 855 042 filed Sep. 13 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2009 0076896 and entitled Merchant Supplied Offer to a Consumer within a Predetermined Distance U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 855 069 filed Sep. 13 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2009 0076925 and entitled Offeree Requested Offer Based on Point of Service to Offeree Distance and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 428 302 filed Apr. 22 2009 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0274627 and entitled Receiving an Announcement Triggered by Location Data the disclosures of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In an advertisement selector prioritizes generates selects adjusts and or customizes the available advertisement data to provide user specific advertisement data based at least in part on the user specific profile . The advertisement selector uses the user specific profile as a filter and or a set of criteria to generate identify select and or prioritize advertisement data for the user . A media controller delivers the user specific advertisement data to the point of interaction for presentation to the user as the targeted and or personalized advertisement.

In one embodiment the user data includes the characterization of the context at the point of interaction . Thus the use of the user specific profile selected using the user data includes the consideration of the context at the point of interaction in selecting the user specific advertisement data .

In one embodiment in selecting the user specific advertisement data the advertisement selector uses not only the user specific profile but also information regarding the context at the point of interaction . For example in one embodiment the user data includes information regarding the context at the point of interaction and the advertisement selector explicitly uses the context information in the generation or selection of the user specific advertisement data .

In one embodiment the advertisement selector may query for specific information regarding the user before providing the user specific advertisement data . The queries may be communicated to the operator of the transaction handler and in particular to the transaction handler or the profile generator . For example the queries from the advertisement selector may be transmitted and received in accordance with an application programming interface or other query interface of the transaction handler the profile generator or the portal of the transaction handler .

In one embodiment the queries communicated from the advertisement selector may request intelligence information regarding the user at any level of specificity e.g. segment level individual level . For example the queries may include a request for a certain field or type of information in a cardholder s aggregate spending profile . As another example the queries may include a request for the spending level of the user in a certain merchant category over a prior time period e.g. six months .

In one embodiment the advertisement selector is operated by an entity that is separate from the entity that operates the transaction handler . For example the advertisement selector may be operated by a search engine a publisher an advertiser an ad network or an online merchant. The user specific profile is provided to the advertisement selector to assist the customization of the user specific advertisement data .

In one embodiment advertising is targeted based on shopping patterns in a merchant category e.g. as represented by a Merchant Category Code MCC that has high correlation of spending propensity with other merchant categories e.g. other MCCs . For example in the context of a first MCC for a targeted audience a profile identifying second MCCs that have high correlation of spending propensity with the first MCC can be used to select advertisements for the targeted audience.

In one embodiment the aggregated spending profile is used to provide intelligence information about the spending patterns preferences and or trends of the user . For example a predictive model can be established based on the aggregated spending profile to estimate the needs of the user . For example the factor values and or the cluster ID in the aggregated spending profile can be used to determine the spending preferences of the user . For example the channel distribution in the aggregated spending profile can be used to provide a customized offer targeted for a particular channel based on the spending patterns of the user .

In one embodiment mobile advertisements such as offers and coupons are generated and disseminated based on aspects of prior purchases such as timing location and nature of the purchases etc. In one embodiment the size of the benefit of the offer or coupon is based on purchase volume or spending amount of the prior purchase and or the subsequent purchase that may qualify for the redemption of the offer. Further details and examples of one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 960 162 filed Dec. 19 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0201226 and entitled Mobile Coupon Method and Portable Consumer Device for Utilizing Same the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment conditional rewards are provided to the user and the transaction handler monitors the transactions of the user to identify redeemable rewards that have satisfied the respective conditions. In one embodiment the conditional rewards are selected based on transaction data . Further details and examples of one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 862 487 filed Sep. 27 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0082418 and entitled Consumer Specific Conditional Rewards the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. The techniques to detect the satisfied conditions of conditional rewards can also be used to detect the transactions that satisfy the conditions specified to locate the transactions that result from online activities such as online advertisements searches etc. to correlate the transactions with the respective online activities.

Further details about targeted offer delivery in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 185 332 filed Aug. 4 2008 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0030644 and entitled Targeted Advertising by Payment Processor History of Cashless Acquired Merchant Transaction on Issued Consumer Account and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 849 793 filed Aug. 3 2010 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0035280 and entitled Systems and Methods for Targeted Advertisement Delivery the disclosures of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In the user tracker obtains and generates context information about the user at the point of interaction including user data that characterizes and or identifies the user . The profile selector selects a user specific profile from the set of transaction profiles generated by the profile generator based on matching the characteristics of the transaction profiles and the characteristics of the user data . For example the user data indicates a set of characteristics of the user and the profile selector selects the user specific profile that is for a particular user or a group of users and that best matches the set of characteristics specified by the user data .

In one embodiment the profile selector receives the transaction profiles in a batch mode. The profile selector selects the user specific profile from the batch of transaction profiles based on the user data . Alternatively the profile generator generates the transaction profiles in real time and the profile selector uses the user data to query the profile generator to generate the user specific profile in real time or just in time. The profile generator generates the user specific profile that best matches the user data .

In one embodiment the user tracker identifies the user based on the user activity on the transaction terminal e.g. having visited a set of websites currently visiting a type of web pages search behavior etc. .

In one embodiment the user data includes an identifier of the user such as a global unique identifier GUID a personal account number PAN e.g. credit card number debit card number or other card account number or other identifiers that uniquely and persistently identify the user within a set of identifiers of the same type. Alternatively the user data may include other identifiers such as an Internet Protocol IP address of the user a name or user name of the user or a browser cookie ID which identify the user in a local temporary transient and or anonymous manner. Some of these identifiers of the user may be provided by publishers advertisers ad networks search engines merchants or the user tracker . In one embodiment such identifiers are correlated to the user based on the overlapping or proximity of the time period of their usage to establish an identification reference table.

In one embodiment the identification reference table is used to identify the account information e.g. account number based on characteristics of the user captured in the user data such as browser cookie ID IP addresses and or timestamps on the usage of the IP addresses. In one embodiment the identification reference table is maintained by the operator of the transaction handler . Alternatively the identification reference table is maintained by an entity other than the operator of the transaction handler .

In one embodiment the user tracker determines certain characteristics of the user to describe a type or group of users of which the user is a member. The transaction profile of the group is used as the user specific profile . Examples of such characteristics include geographical location or neighborhood types of online activities specific online activities or merchant propensity. In one embodiment the groups are defined based on aggregate information e.g. by time of day or household or segment e.g. by cluster propensity demographics cluster IDs and or factor values . In one embodiment the groups are defined in part via one or more social networks. For example a group may be defined based on social distances to one or more users on a social network website interactions between users on a social network website and or common data in social network profiles of the users in the social network website.

In one embodiment the user data may match different profiles at a different granularity or resolution e.g. account user family company neighborhood etc. with different degrees of certainty. The profile selector and or the profile generator may determine or select the user specific profile with the finest granularity or resolution with acceptable certainty. Thus the user specific profile is most specific or closely related to the user .

In one embodiment the advertisement selector uses further data in prioritizing selecting generating customizing and adjusting the user specific advertisement data . For example the advertisement selector may use search data in combination with the user specific profile to provide benefits or offers to a user at the point of interaction . For example the user specific profile can be used to personalize the advertisement such as adjusting the placement of the advertisement relative to other advertisements adjusting the appearance of the advertisement etc.

In one embodiment the user data uses browser cookie information to identify the user . The browser cookie information is matched to account information or the account number to identify the user specific profile such as aggregated spending profile to present effective timely and relevant marketing information to the user via the preferred communication channel e.g. mobile communications web mail email POS etc. within a window of time that could influence the spending behavior of the user . Based on the transaction data the user specific profile can improve audience targeting for online advertising. Thus customers will get better advertisements and offers presented to them and the advertisers will achieve better return on investment for their advertisement campaigns.

In one embodiment the browser cookie that identifies the user in online activities such as web browsing online searching and using social networking applications can be matched to an identifier of the user in account data such as the account number of a financial payment card of the user or the account information of the account identification device of the user . In one embodiment the identifier of the user can be uniquely identified via matching IP address timestamp cookie ID and or other user data observed by the user tracker .

In one embodiment a look up table is used to map browser cookie information e.g. IP address timestamp cookie ID to the account data that identifies the user in the transaction handler . The look up table may be established via correlating overlapping or common portions of the user data observed by different entities or different user trackers .

In one embodiment the portal is configured to identify the consumer account based on the IP address identified in the user data through mapping the IP address to a street address.

In one embodiment the portal uses a plurality of methods to identify consumer accounts based on the user data . The portal combines the results from the different methods to determine the most likely consumer account for the user data .

Details about the identification of consumer account based on user data in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 849 798 filed Aug. 3 2010 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0093327 and entitled Systems and Methods to Match Identifiers the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the correlator is used to close the loop for the tracking of consumer behavior across an on line activity and an off line activity that results at least in part from the on line activity. In one embodiment online activities such as searching web browsing social networking and or consuming online advertisements are correlated with respective transactions to generate the correlation result in . The respective transactions may occur offline in brick and mortar retail stores or online but in a context outside the online activities such as a credit card purchase that is performed in a way not visible to a search company that facilitates the search activities.

The correlator is configured in one embodiment to identify transactions resulting from searches or online advertisements. For example in response to a query about the user from the user tracker the correlator identifies an offline transaction performed by the user and sends the correlation result about the offline transaction to the user tracker which allows the user tracker to combine the information about the offline transaction and the online activities to provide significant marketing advantages.

For example a marketing department could correlate an advertising budget to actual sales. For example a marketer can use the correlation result to study the effect of certain prioritization strategies customization schemes etc. on the impact on the actual sales. For example the correlation result can be used to adjust or prioritize advertisement placement on a web site a search engine a social networking site an online marketplace or the like.

In one embodiment the profile generator uses the correlation result to augment the transaction profiles with data indicating the rate of conversion from searches or advertisements to purchase transactions. In one embodiment the correlation result is used to generate predictive models to determine what a user is likely to purchase when the user is searching using certain keywords or when the user is presented with an advertisement or offer. In one embodiment the portal is configured to report the correlation result to a partner such as a search engine a publisher or a merchant to allow the partner to use the correlation result to measure the effectiveness of advertisements and or search result customization to arrange rewards etc.

In one embodiment the correlator matches the online activities and the transactions based on matching the user data provided by the user tracker and the records of the transactions such as transaction data or transaction records . In another embodiment the correlator matches the online activities and the transactions based on the redemption of offers benefits provided in the user specific advertisement data .

In one embodiment the portal is configured to receive a set of conditions and an identification of the user determine whether there is any transaction of the user that satisfies the set of conditions and if so provide indications of the transactions that satisfy the conditions and or certain details about the transactions which allows the requester to correlate the transactions with certain user activities such as searching web browsing consuming advertisements etc.

In one embodiment the requester may not know the account number of the user and the portal is to map the identifier provided in the request to the account number of the user to provide the requested information. Examples of the identifier being provided in the request to identify the user include an identification of an iFrame of a web page visited by the user a browser cookie ID an IP address and the day and time corresponding to the use of the IP address etc.

The information provided by the portal can be used in pre purchase marketing activities such as customizing content or offers prioritizing content or offers selecting content or offers etc. based on the spending pattern of the user . The content that is customized prioritized selected or recommended may be the search results blog entries items for sale etc.

The information provided by the portal can be used in post purchase activities. For example the information can be used to correlate an offline purchase with online activities. For example the information can be used to determine purchases made in response to media events such as television programs advertisements news announcements etc.

Details about profile delivery online activity to offline purchase tracking techniques to identify the user specific profile based on user data such as IP addresses and targeted delivery of advertisement offer benefit in some embodiments are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 849 789 filed Aug. 3 2010 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0035278 and entitled Systems and Methods for Closing the Loop between Online Activities and Offline Purchases the disclosure of which application is incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the transaction handler uses the account data to store information for third party loyalty programs.

In one embodiment the association between the account identifier and the loyalty benefit offeror in the account data indicates that the user having the account identifier is a member of the loyalty program. Thus the user may use the account identifier to access privileges afforded to the members of the loyalty programs such as rights to access a member only area facility store product or service discounts extended only to members or opportunities to participate in certain events buy certain items or receive certain services reserved for members.

In one embodiment it is not necessary to make a purchase to use the privileges. The user may enjoy the privileges based on the status of being a member of the loyalty program. The user may use the account identifier to show the status of being a member of the loyalty program.

For example the user may provide the account identifier e.g. the account number of a credit card to the transaction terminal to initiate an authorization process for a special transaction which is designed to check the member status of the user as if the account identifier were used to initiate an authorization process for a payment transaction. The special transaction is designed to verify the member status of the user via checking whether the account data is associated with the loyalty benefit offeror . If the account identifier is associated with the corresponding loyalty benefit offeror the transaction handler provides an approval indication in the authorization process to indicate that the user is a member of the loyalty program. The approval indication can be used as a form of identification to allow the user to access member privileges such as access to services products opportunities facilities discounts permissions which are reserved for members.

In one embodiment when the account identifier is used to identify the user as a member to access member privileges the transaction handler stores information about the access of the corresponding member privilege in loyalty record . The profile generator may use the information accumulated in the loyalty record to enhance transaction profiles and provide the user with personalized targeted advertisements with or without further offers of benefit e.g. discounts incentives rebates cash back rewards etc. .

In one embodiment the association of the account identifier and the loyalty benefit offeror also allows the loyalty benefit offeror to access at least a portion of the account data relevant to the loyalty program such as the loyalty record and certain information about the user such as name address and other demographic data.

In one embodiment the loyalty program allows the user to accumulate benefits according to loyalty program rules such as reward points cash back levels of discounts etc. For example the user may accumulate reward points for transactions that satisfy the loyalty program rules and the user may use the reward points to redeem cash gift discounts etc. In one embodiment the loyalty record stores the accumulated benefits and the transaction handler updates the loyalty record associated with the loyalty benefit offeror and the account identifier when events that satisfy the loyalty program rules occur.

In one embodiment the accumulated benefits as indicated in the loyalty record can be redeemed when the account identifier is used to perform a payment transaction when the payment transaction satisfies the loyalty program rules. For example the user may redeem a number of points to offset or reduce an amount of the purchase price.

In one embodiment when the user uses the account identifier to make purchases as a member the merchant may further provide information about the purchases and the transaction handler can store the information about the purchases as part of the loyalty record . The information about the purchases may identify specific items or services purchased by the member. For example the merchant may provide the transaction handler with purchase details at stock keeping unit SKU level which are then stored as part of the loyalty record . The loyalty benefit offeror may use the purchase details to study the purchase behavior of the user and the profile generator may use the SKU level purchase details to enhance the transaction profiles .

In one embodiment the SKU level purchase details are requested from the merchants or retailers via authorization responses e.g. as illustrated in when the account of the user is enrolled in a loyalty program that allows the transaction handler and or the issuer processor to collect the purchase details.

A method to provide loyalty programs of one embodiment includes the use of the transaction handler as part of a computing apparatus. The computing apparatus processes a plurality of payment card transactions. After the computing apparatus receives a request to track transactions for a loyalty program such as the loyalty program rules the computing apparatus stores and updates loyalty program information in response to transactions occurring in the loyalty program. The computing apparatus provides to a customer e.g. an offer of a benefit when the customer satisfies a condition defined in the loyalty program such as the loyalty program rules . In one embodiment the loyalty benefit as identified in the loyalty record can be redeemed in connection with a transaction in a way the benefit of an offer stored in association with the account identifier is redeemed.

Examples of loyalty programs through collaboration between collaborative constituents in a payment processing system including the transaction handler in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 767 202 filed Jun. 22 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0059302 and entitled Loyalty Program Service U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 848 112 filed Aug. 30 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0059306 and entitled Loyalty Program Incentive Determination and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 848 179 filed Aug. 30 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0059307 and entitled Loyalty Program Parameter Collaboration the disclosures of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Examples of processing the redemption of accumulated loyalty benefits via the transaction handler in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 100 filed Aug. 7 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0059303 and entitled Transaction Evaluation for Providing Rewards the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the incentive reward or benefit provided in the loyalty program is based on the presence of correlated related transactions. For example in one embodiment an incentive is provided if a financial payment card is used in a reservation system to make a reservation and the financial payment card is subsequently used to pay for the reserved good or service. Further details and examples of one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 945 907 filed Nov. 27 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0071587 and entitled Incentive Wireless Communication Reservation the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the transaction handler provides centralized loyalty program management reporting and membership services. In one embodiment membership data is downloaded from the transaction handler to acceptance point devices such as the transaction terminal . In one embodiment loyalty transactions are reported from the acceptance point devices to the transaction handler and the data indicating the loyalty points rewards benefits etc. are stored on the account identification device . Further details and examples of one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 401 504 filed Mar. 27 2003 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2004 0054581 and entitled Network Centric Loyalty System the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the portal of the transaction handler is used to manage reward or loyalty programs for entities such as issuers merchants etc. The cardholders such as the user are rewarded with offers benefits from merchants. The portal and or the transaction handler track the transaction records for the merchants for the reward or loyalty programs. Further details and examples of one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 688 423 filed Mar. 20 2007 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0195473 and entitled Reward Program Manager the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment a loyalty program includes multiple entities providing access to detailed transaction data which allows the flexibility for the customization of the loyalty program. For example issuers or merchants may sponsor the loyalty program to provide rewards and the portal and or the transaction handler stores the loyalty currency in the data warehouse . Further details and examples of one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 177 530 filed Jul. 22 2008 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2009 0030793 and entitled Multi Vender Multi Loyalty Currency Program the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment an incentive program is created on the portal of the transaction handler . The portal collects offers from a plurality of merchants and stores the offers in the data warehouse . The offers may have associated criteria for their distributions. The portal and or the transaction handler may recommend offers based on the transaction data . In one embodiment the transaction handler automatically applies the benefits of the offers during the processing of the transactions when the transactions satisfy the conditions associated with the offers. In one embodiment the transaction handler communicates with transaction terminals to set up customize and or update offers based on market focus product categories service categories targeted consumer demographics etc. Further details and examples of one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 413 097 filed Mar. 27 2009 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0049620 and entitled Merchant Device Support of an Integrated Offer Network the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the transaction handler is configured to provide offers from merchants to the user via the payment system making accessing and redeeming the offers convenient for the user . The offers may be triggered by and or tailored to a previous transaction and may be valid only for a limited period of time starting from the date of the previous transaction. If the transaction handler determines that a subsequent transaction processed by the transaction handler meets the conditions for the redemption of an offer the transaction handler may credit the consumer account for the redemption of the offer and or provide a notification message to the user . Further details and examples of one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 566 350 filed Sep. 24 2009 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0114686 and entitled Real Time Statement Credits and Notifications the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Details on loyalty programs in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 896 632 filed Oct. 1 2010 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0087530 and entitled Systems and Methods to Provide Loyalty Programs the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment merchants generate stock keeping unit SKU or other specific information that identifies the particular goods and services purchased by the user or customer. The SKU information may be provided to the operator of the transaction handler that processed the purchases. The operator of the transaction handler may store the SKU information as part of transaction data and reflect the SKU information for a particular transaction in a transaction profile or associated with the person involved in the transaction.

When a user shops at a traditional retail store or browses a website of an online merchant an SKU level profile associated specifically with the user may be provided to select an advertisement appropriately targeted to the user e.g. via mobile phones POS terminals web browsers etc. . The SKU level profile for the user may include an identification of the goods and services historically purchased by the user . In addition the SKU level profile for the user may identify goods and services that the user may purchase in the future. The identification may be based on historical purchases reflected in SKU level profiles of other individuals or groups that are determined to be similar to the user . Accordingly the return on investment for advertisers and merchants can be greatly improved.

In one embodiment the user specific profile is an aggregated spending profile that is generated using the SKU level information. For example in one embodiment the factor values correspond to factor definitions that are generated based on aggregating spending in different categories of products and or services. A typical merchant offers products and or services in many different categories.

In one embodiment the SKU level purchase details are requested from the merchants or retailers via authorization responses e.g. as illustrated in when the account of the user is enrolled in a program that allows the transaction handler and or the issuer processor to collect the purchase details. Based on the SKU information and perhaps other transaction data the profile generator may create an SKU level transaction profile for the user . In one embodiment based on the SKU information associated with the transactions for each person entering into transactions with the operator of the transaction handler the profile generator may create an SKU level transaction profile for each person.

Details on SKU level profile in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 899 144 filed Oct. 6 2010 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0093335 and entitled Systems and Methods for Advertising Services Based on an SKU Level Profile the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the transaction handler is configured to selectively request purchase details via authorization responses. When the transaction handler and or the issuer processor needs purchase details such as identification of specific items purchased and or their prices the authorization responses transmitted from the transaction handler is to include an indicator to request for the purchase details for the transaction that is being authorized. The merchants are to determine whether or not to submit purchase details based on whether or not there is a demand indicated in the authorization responses from the transaction handler .

In one embodiment when the transaction is approved and there is a need for purchase details the transaction handler or the issuer processor is to provide an indicator of the request for purchase details in the authorization response . The optional request allows the transaction handler and or the issuer processor to request purchase details from the merchant or retailer on demand. When the request for purchase details is present in the authorization response the transaction terminal is to provide the purchase details associated with the payment transaction to the transaction handler directly or indirectly via the portal . When the request is absent from the authorization response the transaction terminal does not have to provide the purchase details for the payment transaction.

In one embodiment prior to transmitting the authorization response the transaction handler and or the issuer processor determines whether there is a need for transaction details. When there is no need for the purchase details for a payment transaction the request for purchase details is not provided in the authorization response for the payment transaction. When there is a need for the purchase details for a payment transaction the request for purchase details is provided in the authorization response for the payment transaction. The merchants or retailers do not have to send detailed purchase data to the transaction handler when the authorization response message does not explicitly request detailed purchase data.

In the transaction handler has a portal and a data warehouse storing the transaction data recording the transactions processed by the transaction handler . The advertisement server is to provide an advertisement to the point of interaction such as a web browser of the user .

In the advertisement is to include a link to the merchant website and an offer with a link to the portal . When the link to the merchant website is selected on the point of interaction the user is to visit the merchant website for further details about the products and or services of the merchant or advertiser. When the link to the portal is selected the offer is identified to the portal for association with a consumer account of the user identified by the account information .

In one embodiment when the link to the portal is selected the user is to provide the account information to the portal via the point of interaction to identify the consumer account of the user . After both the consumer account of the user and the offer are identified the data warehouse is to store the data to associate offer with the account information in the account data of the user .

In one embodiment the account information is pre stored in the account data of the user . The portal is to authenticate the identity of the user in response to the user selection of the link to the portal . After the user is identified via authentication the data warehouse stores the data to associate offer with the account information in the account data of the user .

In one embodiment the account data of the user may have multiple consumer accounts e.g. under the control of one or more issuer processors e.g. . When the user has multiple consumer accounts e.g. the portal is to prompt the user to associate the offer with one of the consumer accounts e.g. . The transaction handler and or the portal are to monitor the activity in the consumer account e.g. with which the offer is associated to detect a transaction that qualifies for the redemption of the offer .

After the offer is associated with account information the transaction handler and or the portal is to monitor the transaction activities in the corresponding consumer account to detect one or more transactions that qualify for the redemption of the offer . For example if the user uses the account information in the transaction terminal to pay for a qualified purchase the transaction handler and or the portal is to identify the transaction from the multiplicity of transactions processed by the transaction handler and to provide the benefit to the user in accordance with the offer .

For example in one embodiment when processing a transaction at the transaction handler the account information involved in the transaction is checked to identify the associated offers e.g. . If one or more offers e.g. are identified for the transaction the transaction record for the transaction and or other information about the transaction is used to determine if the redemption conditions of the offer are met by the transaction. If the redemption conditions of the offer are met the transaction handler is to redeem the offer on behalf of the user via statement credits to the consumer account identified by the account information .

In one embodiment when the user has multiple consumer accounts e.g. the transaction handler and or the portal is to monitor the activity in the multiple consumer accounts to detect a transaction that qualifies for the redemption of the offer . When a qualified transaction is detected in a consumer account the transaction handler is to provide the statement credits to the consumer account with which the offer is associated to detect a transaction that qualifies for the redemption of the offer . In one embodiment when the user has multiple consumer accounts e.g. the portal is to allow the user to not associate the offer with a particular consumer account and when a qualified transaction is detected in an consumer account the transaction handler is to provide the statement credits to the consumer account in which the qualified transaction occurred.

In one embodiment the offer is pre registered in the data warehouse prior to the delivery of the advertisement from the advertisement sever to the point of the interaction . For example in one embodiment the merchant or advertiser is to use the portal to store data representing the offer in the data warehouse . The data representing the offer includes the specification of the benefit of the offer and or conditions for the redemption of the offer . In response the portal provides an identifier of the offer to uniquely identify the offer among a plurality of offers registered in the data warehouse . In one embodiment the identifier of the offer is included in the link to the portal embedded in the advertisement . Thus when the link containing the identifier of the offer is selected the identifier of the offer is provided from the point of interaction to the portal to identify the offer .

In one embodiment the pre registration of the offer in the data warehouse by the merchant is not required. For example the details of the offer such as the specification of the benefit and the conditions for the redemption of the offer are embedded in the link from the advertisement to the portal . In one embodiment the link from the advertisement to the portal includes a location from which the portal can obtain the details of the offer . For example in one embodiment the details of the offer are stored in the merchant website and provided by the merchant website via a web service. For example in one embodiment the details of the offer are stored in the advertisement server or a third party web service.

In the advertisement is provided by an advertisement server that is distinct and separate from the portal . For example the advertisement server may be operated by a third party advertisement network a search engine a social networking website an online marketplace etc. In one embodiment the advertisement is presented in a web page of the advertisement server such as in the search results of a search engine. In one embodiment the advertisement is presented in a web page of a third party media channel such as a blog site a social networking website an online newspaper etc. In one embodiment the advertisement is provided by the portal .

In one embodiment when the portion is selected as in a user interface as illustrated in is presented to allow the user to store the offer on the web portal e.g. under the control of the transaction handler .

The user may have already logged into the web portal using the web browser running on the point of interaction e.g. as Ashley illustrated in . After the user has logged into the web portal using the web browser the web portal may store a browser cookie in the web browser of the user to identify the user . Based on the cookie returned from the web browser while the user follows the link embedded in the portion of the advertisement the user interface prompts the user to confirm the storing of the offer in the account.

In the link allows the user to log into a different account to store the offer if the account as indicated by the browser cookie is not the account of the user or not the desired account of the user . If the user does not already have an account with the web portal the user may follow the link or to sign into the web portal as a new user.

In one embodiment the user has multiple financial transaction cards supported by the web portal . The web portal allows the user to store the offer with one of the financial transaction cards as illustrated in . For example in one embodiment the user may select the radio button using the cursor to associate the offer with the card having a number ending with 7776. When a transaction qualified for the offer is made via the card that is associated with the offer the web portal is to automatically process the offer for fulfillment redemption.

In another embodiment the offer is stored in association with one or more or all of the cards identified in the account. Thus the offer can be redeemed in an automated way when any of the associated cards is used to make the payment for the purchases that qualify for the offer .

In the user can click the close button to close the window and return to the Media Channel ABC website as illustrated in .

In one embodiment the user may also provide a phone number of a mobile phone to the offer redemption site e.g. as a user selected preference to receive mobile notification of saved offers and once the offer is saved with a card of the user the offer redemption site can transmit a mobile message to the user as illustrated in .

If the user is not recognized by the offer redemption site e.g. via a browser cookie or the user clicks the not John link in to sign in as a different user of the offer redemption site the offer redemption site displays the web page as illustrated in to allow the user to sign in and to have the browser store a browser cookie to identify the user .

Further details and examples of one embodiment of offer fulfillment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 113 710 filed May 23 2011 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2011 0288918 and entitled Systems and Methods for Redemption of Offers the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The transaction handler of one embodiment is configured to process authorization settlement requests to enable to real time discount at transaction terminal in accordance with the offer stored in association with the account data of the user in the data warehouse of the transaction handler .

In after the transaction handler receives the authorization request from the acquirer processor the transaction handler determines whether the offer is applicable to the transaction associated with the authorization request . If the offer is applicable the transaction handler changes the transaction amount A to the transaction amount B in the authorization request transmitted to the issuer processor . If the issuer processor authorizes the transaction amount B the transaction handler transmits to the transaction terminal via the acquirer processor the authorization response to indicate the approval of the transaction amount B and the applicable offer . The transaction terminal is configured to accept the modified transaction amount B and print the receipt that shows the applicable offer and the application of the offer to the transaction.

In after the transaction handler receives the authorization response from the issuer processor the transaction handler determines whether the offer is applicable to the transaction associated with the authorization response . If the offer is applicable the transaction handler changes the transaction amount A to the transaction amount B in the authorization response transmitted to the acquirer processor . In the embodiment the authorization response provided to the transaction terminal via the acquirer processor is further configured by the transaction handler to indicate the applicable offer . The transaction terminal is configured to accept the modify the transaction amount B which is different from the initial transaction amount A submitted by the transaction terminal in the authorization request to the acquirer processor and print the receipt that shows the applicable offer and the application of the offer to the transaction.

In the transaction handler is configured to apply the offer during the authorization phase of the transaction to cause the receipt presented by the transaction terminal to show that the benefit of the offer has been applied to the transaction. For example in one embodiment the transaction terminal is configured to provide a user interface that allows the merchant to accept the modified transaction amount in view of the applicable offer identified in the authorization response .

In one embodiment the issuer processor is configured to apply the offer by change the authorization response .

In one embodiment the acquirer processor is configured to apply the offer by change the authorization response or the authorization request e.g. after receiving the authorization request from the transaction terminal and before transmitting the authorization request having the modified transaction amount to the transaction handler .

In one embodiment the transaction handler further uses a communication reference e.g. a mobile phone number an email address an instant message user identifier that is stored in the account data to provide a notification to the user about the applicable offer and the benefit of the offer that has been applied to the transaction in parallel with the processing of the authorization request and or the authorization response . Details and examples of using such a communication reference for notification in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 152 186 filed Jun. 2 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 359 274 and entitled Systems and Methods to Provide Messages in Real Time with Transaction Processing the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In one embodiment the transaction handler is configured to detect the applicability of the offer during the settlement phase of the transaction and apply the applicable offer during settlement of the transaction.

In one embodiment the portal is configured with a user interface to allow the user of the consumer account specify a communication reference that is stored in association with the account information . If the user provides the communication reference for association with the account information the user is provided with notification services using the communication reference . Examples of the communication reference include a phone number for notification via voice mails a mobile phone number for notification via short message service or mobile application an email address for notification via emails a user name in an instant messaging system for notification via instant messages a member ID of a social networking site for notification via messages transmitted via the social networking site etc.

In the data warehouse is configured with one or more trigger records associated with the offer . The trigger record specifies a set of conditions and identifies an action which is to be performed when a transaction processed by the transaction handler satisfies the set of conditions.

In when the account information is used at the transaction terminal e.g. a point of sales device to initiate a transaction in the consumer account the transaction terminal communicates with the acquirer processor to generate an authorization request . The transaction handler is configured to receive the authorization request from the acquirer processor and identify the issuer processor based on the account information .

In transaction handler is configured to determine whether or not the offer is applicable to the authorization request after receiving the authorization request from the acquirer processor and prior to sending the corresponding authorization request to the issuer processor associated with the account information . If the offer is applicable to the transaction associated with the authorization request the transaction handler changes the transaction amount according to the offer and uses the changed transaction amount to communicate with the issuer processor for the authorization of the transaction in a way as illustrated in .

In the transaction terminal is configured to present the information about the offer provided in the authorization response . Thus the user can verify the application of the offer to the transaction from the receipt produced by the transaction terminal . For example the transaction terminal uses a printer to produce a paper receipt.

In one embodiment when the authorization response received from the issuer processor indicates the approval of the transaction that receives the benefit of the offer the portal is configured to use the communication reference to send a notification to the point of interaction of the user . The notification includes at least some of the above discussed information about the offer that is applied to the authorization request in the authorization response .

In the application of the offer is implemented via the transaction handler . Alternatively the application of the offer can be implemented in the acquirer processor or the issuer processor in a way similar to that described above in connection with the transaction handler .

Prior to communicating the authorization response to the transaction terminal via the acquirer processor the computing apparatus is configured to determine whether the offer is applicable and if so the computing apparatus configures the authorization response to identify the offer and the benefit applied to the transaction in accordance with the offer e.g. the reduced transaction amount .

In one embodiment when the authorization response approves the transaction the computing apparatus is configured to optionally transmit a notification about the offer to the point of interaction of the user using the communication reference .

Further details and examples of applying offer benefit via adjusting transaction amount in some embodiments are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 676 535 filed Nov. 14 2012 and entitled Systems and Methods to Provide Discount at Point of Sales Terminals the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment at least some of the profile generator correlator profile selector and advertisement selector are controlled by the entity that operates the transaction handler . In another embodiment at least some of the profile generator correlator profile selector and advertisement selector are not controlled by the entity that operates the transaction handler .

In one embodiment the products and or services purchased by the user are also identified by the information transmitted from the merchants or service providers. Thus the transaction data may include identification of the individual products and or services which allows the profile generator to generate transaction profiles with fine granularity or resolution. In one embodiment the granularity or resolution may be at a level of distinct products and services that can be purchased e.g. stock keeping unit SKU level or category or type of products or services or vendor of products or services etc.

In one embodiment the entity operating the transaction handler provides the intelligence information in real time as the request for the intelligence information occurs. In other embodiments the entity operating the transaction handler may provide the intelligence information in batch mode. The intelligence information can be delivered via online communications e.g. via an application programming interface API on a website or other information server or via physical transportation of a computer readable media that stores the data representing the intelligence information.

In one embodiment the intelligence information is communicated to various entities in the system in a way similar to and or in parallel with the information flow in the transaction system to move money. The transaction handler routes the information in the same way it routes the currency involved in the transactions.

In one embodiment the portal provides a user interface to allow the user to select items offered on different merchant websites and store the selected items in a wish list for comparison reviewing purchasing tracking etc. The information collected via the wish list can be used to improve the transaction profiles and derive intelligence on the needs of the user and targeted advertisements can be delivered to the user via the wish list user interface provided by the portal . Examples of user interface systems to manage wish lists are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 683 802 filed Jan. 7 2010 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0174623 and entitled System and Method for Managing Items of Interest Selected from Online Merchants the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the characteristics of transaction patterns of customers are profiled via clusters factors and or categories of purchases. The transaction data may include transaction records and in one embodiment an aggregated spending profile is generated from the transaction records in a way illustrated in to summarize the spending behavior reflected in the transaction records .

In each of the transaction records is for a particular transaction processed by the transaction handler . Each of the transaction records provides information about the particular transaction such as the account number of the consumer account used to pay for the purchase the date and or time of the transaction the amount of the transaction the ID of the merchant who receives the payment the category of the merchant the channel through which the purchase was made etc. Examples of channels include online offline in store via phone etc. In one embodiment the transaction records may further include a field to identify a type of transaction such as card present card not present etc.

A card present transaction typically involves physically presenting the account identification device such as a financial transaction card to the merchant e.g. via swiping a credit card at a POS terminal of a merchant and a card not present transaction typically involves presenting the account information of the consumer account to the merchant to identify the consumer account without physically presenting the account identification device to the merchant or the transaction terminal .

The transaction records of one embodiment may further include details about the products and or services involved in the purchase.

When there is voluminous data representing the transaction records the spending patterns reflected in the transaction records can be difficult to recognize by an ordinary person.

In the voluminous transaction records are summarized into aggregated spending profiles e.g. to concisely present the statistical spending characteristics reflected in the transaction records . The aggregated spending profile uses values derived from statistical analysis to present the statistical characteristics of transaction records of an entity in a way easy to understand by an ordinary person.

In the transaction records are summarized via factor analysis to condense the variables e.g. and via cluster analysis to segregate entities by spending patterns.

In a set of variables e.g. are defined based on the parameters recorded in the transaction records . The variables e.g. and are defined in a way to have meanings easily understood by an ordinary person. For example variables measure the aggregated spending in super categories variables measure the spending frequencies in various areas and variables measure the spending amounts in various areas. In one embodiment each of the areas is identified by a merchant category e.g. as represented by a merchant category code MCC a North American Industry Classification System NAICS code or a similarly standardized category code . In other embodiments an area may be identified by a product category a SKU number etc.

Examples of the spending frequency variables and spending amount variables defined for various merchant categories e.g. in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 537 566 filed Aug. 7 2009 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0306029 and entitled Cardholder Clusters and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 777 173 filed May 10 2010 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0306032 and entitled Systems and Methods to Summarize Transaction Data the disclosures of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In the aggregation includes the application of the definitions for these variables e.g. and to the transaction records to generate the variable values . The transaction records are aggregated to generate aggregated measurements e.g. variable values that are not specific to a particular transaction such as frequencies of purchases made with different merchants or different groups of merchants the amounts spent with different merchants or different groups of merchants and the number of unique purchases across different merchants or different groups of merchants etc. The aggregation can be performed for a particular time period and for entities at various levels.

The transaction records can be aggregated according to a buying entity or a selling entity. For example the aggregation can be performed at account level person level family level company level neighborhood level city level region level etc. to analyze the spending patterns across various areas e.g. sellers products or services for the respective aggregated buying entity. For example the transaction records for a particular merchant having transactions with multiple accounts can be aggregated for a merchant level analysis. For example the transaction records for a particular merchant group can be aggregated for a merchant group level analysis. The aggregation can be formed separately for different types of transactions such as transactions made online offline via phone and or card present transactions vs. card not present transactions which can be used to identify the spending pattern differences among different types of transactions.

In the variable values e.g. . . . associated with an entity ID are considered the random samples of the respective variables e.g. sampled for the instance of an entity represented by the entity ID . Statistical analyses e.g. factor analysis and cluster analysis are performed to identify the patterns and correlations in the random samples.

Once the cluster definitions are obtained from the cluster analysis the identity of the cluster e.g. cluster ID that contains the entity ID can be used to characterize spending behavior of the entity represented by the entity ID . The entities in the same cluster are considered to have similar spending behaviors.

In the random variables e.g. and as defined by the definitions have certain degrees of correlation and are not independent from each other. For example merchants of different merchant categories e.g. may have overlapping business or have certain business relationships. For example certain products and or services of certain merchants have cause and effect relationships. For example certain products and or services of certain merchants are mutually exclusive to a certain degree e.g. a purchase from one merchant may have a level of probability to exclude the user from making a purchase from another merchant . Such relationships may be complex and difficult to quantify by merely inspecting the categories. Further such relationships may shift over time as the economy changes.

In a factor analysis is performed to reduce the redundancy and or correlation among the variables e.g. . The factor analysis identifies the definitions for factors each of which represents a combination of the variables e.g. . A factor from the factor analysis is a linear combination of a plurality of the aggregated measurements e.g. variables determined for various areas e.g. merchants or merchant categories products or product categories . Once the relationship between the factors and the aggregated measurements is determined via factor analysis the values for the factors can be determined from the linear combinations of the aggregated measurements and be used in a transaction profile or to provide information on the behavior of the entity represented by the entity ID e.g. an account an individual a family .

Once the factor definitions are obtained from the factor analysis the factor definitions can be applied to the variable values to determine factor values for the aggregated spending profile . Since redundancy and correlation are reduced in the factors the number of factors is typically much smaller than the number of the original variables e.g. . Thus the factor values represent the concise summary of the original variables e.g. .

For example there may be thousands of variables on spending frequency and amount for different merchant categories and the factor analysis can reduce the factor number to less than one hundred and even less than twenty . In one example a twelve factor solution is obtained which allows the use of twelve factors to combine the thousands of the original variables and thus the spending behavior in thousands of merchant categories can be summarized via twelve factor values . In one embodiment each factor is combination of at least four variables and a typical variable has contributions to more than one factor.

In an aggregated spending profile for an entity represented by an entity ID e.g. includes the cluster ID and factor values determined based on the cluster definitions and the factor definitions . The aggregated spending profile may further include other statistical parameters such as diversity index channel distribution category distribution zip code etc. as further discussed below.

In general an aggregated spending profile may include more or fewer fields than those illustrated in . For example in one embodiment the aggregated spending profile further includes an aggregated spending amount for a period of time e.g. the past twelve months in another embodiment the aggregated spending profile does not include the category distribution and in a further embodiment the aggregated spending profile may include a set of distance measures to the centroids of the clusters.

In data from related accounts are combined recurrent installment transactions are combined and account data are selected according to a set of criteria related to activity consistency diversity etc.

In the computation models e.g. as represented by the variable definitions are applied to the remaining account data e.g. transaction records to obtain data samples for the variables. The data points associated with the entities other than those whose transactions fail to meet the minimum requirements for activity consistency diversity etc. are used in factor analysis and cluster analysis .

In the data samples e.g. variable values are used to perform factor analysis to identify factor solutions e.g. factor definitions . The factor solutions can be adjusted to improve similarity in factor values of different sets of transaction data .

The data samples can also be used to perform cluster analysis to identify cluster solutions e.g. cluster definitions . The cluster solutions can be adjusted to improve similarity in cluster identifications based on different sets of transaction data . For example cluster definitions can be applied to the transactions in the time period under analysis e.g. the past twelve months and be applied separately to the transactions in a prior time period e.g. the twelve months before the past twelve months to obtain two sets of cluster identifications for various entities. The cluster definitions can be adjusted to improve the correlation between the two set of cluster identifications.

Optionally human understandable characteristics of the factors and clusters are identified to name the factors and clusters. For example when the spending behavior of a cluster appears to be the behavior of an internet loyalist the cluster can be named internet loyalist such that if a cardholder is found to be in the internet loyalist cluster the spending preferences and patterns of the cardholder can be easily perceived.

In one embodiment the factor analysis and the cluster analysis are performed periodically e.g. once a year or six months to update the factor definitions and the cluster definitions which may change as the economy and the society change over time.

In transaction data are summarized using the factor solutions and cluster solutions to generate the aggregated spending profile . The aggregated spending profile can be updated more frequently than the factor solutions and cluster solutions when the new transaction data becomes available. For example the aggregated spending profile may be updated quarterly or monthly.

Details about aggregated spending profile in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 777 173 filed May 10 2010 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2010 0306032 and entitled Systems and Methods to Summarize Transaction Data the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment a set of profiles are generated from the transaction data for a plurality of geographical regions such as mutually exclusive non overlapping regions defined by postal codes. Transactions of account holders residing in the regions are aggregated according to merchant categories for the respective regions and subsequently normalized to obtain preference indicators that reveal the spending preferences of the account holders in the respective regions. Each of the profiles for respective regions is based on a plurality of different account holders and or households to avoid revealing private information about individual account holders or families. Further the profiles are constructed in a way to make it impossible to reverse calculate the transaction amounts. Further details and examples about profiles constructed for regions in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 675 301 filed Nov. 13 2012 and entitled Systems and Methods to Summarize Transaction data the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In the transaction handler is coupled between an issuer processor and an acquirer processor to facilitate authorization and settlement of transactions between a consumer account and a merchant account . The transaction handler records the transactions in the data warehouse . The portal is coupled to the data warehouse to provide information based on the transaction records such as the transaction profiles aggregated spending profile offer redemption notification etc. The portal may be implemented as a web portal a telephone gateway a file data server etc.

In the transaction terminal initiates the transaction for a user e.g. a customer for processing by a transaction handler . The transaction handler processes the transaction and stores transaction data about the transaction in connection with account data such as the account profile of an account of the user . The account data may further include data about the user collected from issuers or merchants and or other sources such as social networks credit bureaus merchant provided information address information etc. In one embodiment a transaction may be initiated by a server e.g. based on a stored schedule for recurrent payments .

The accumulated transaction data and the corresponding account data are used to generate intelligence information about the purchase behavior pattern preference tendency frequency trend amount and or propensity of the users e.g. as individuals or as a member of a group. The intelligence information can then be used to generate identify and or select targeted advertisements for presentation to the user on the point of interaction during a transaction after a transaction or when other opportunities arise.

In the consumer account is under the control of the issuer processor . The consumer account may be owned by an individual or an organization such as a business a school etc. The consumer account may be a credit account a debit account or a stored value account. The issuer may provide the consumer e.g. user an account identification device to identify the consumer account using the account information . The respective consumer of the account can be called an account holder or a cardholder even when the consumer is not physically issued a card or the account identification device in one embodiment. The issuer processor is to charge the consumer account to pay for purchases.

The account identification device of one embodiment is a plastic card having a magnetic strip storing account information identifying the consumer account and or the issuer processor . Alternatively the account identification device is a smartcard having an integrated circuit chip storing at least the account information . The account identification device may optionally include a mobile phone having an integrated smartcard.

The account information may be printed or embossed on the account identification device . The account information may be printed as a bar code to allow the transaction terminal to read the information via an optical scanner. The account information may be stored in a memory of the account identification device and configured to be read via wireless contactless communications such as near field communications via magnetic field coupling infrared communications or radio frequency communications. Alternatively the transaction terminal may require contact with the account identification device to read the account information e.g. by reading the magnetic strip of a card with a magnetic strip reader .

The transaction terminal is configured to transmit an authorization request message to the acquirer processor . The authorization request includes the account information an amount of payment and information about the merchant e.g. an indication of the merchant account . The acquirer processor requests the transaction handler to process the authorization request based on the account information received in the transaction terminal . The transaction handler routes the authorization request to the issuer processor and may process and respond to the authorization request when the issuer processor is not available. The issuer processor determines whether to authorize the transaction based at least in part on a balance of the consumer account .

The transaction handler the issuer processor and the acquirer processor may each include a subsystem to identify the risk in the transaction and may reject the transaction based on the risk assessment.

The account identification device may include security features to prevent unauthorized uses of the consumer account such as a logo to show the authenticity of the account identification device encryption to protect the account information etc.

The transaction terminal of one embodiment is configured to interact with the account identification device to obtain the account information that identifies the consumer account and or the issuer processor . The transaction terminal communicates with the acquirer processor that controls the merchant account of a merchant. The transaction terminal may communicate with the acquirer processor via a data communication connection such as a telephone connection an Internet connection etc. The acquirer processor is to collect payments into the merchant account on behalf of the merchant.

In one embodiment the transaction terminal is a POS terminal at a traditional offline brick and mortar retail store. In another embodiment the transaction terminal is an online server that receives account information of the consumer account from the user through a web connection. In one embodiment the user may provide account information through a telephone call via verbal communications with a representative of the merchant and the representative enters the account information into the transaction terminal to initiate the transaction.

In one embodiment the account information can be entered directly into the transaction terminal to make payment from the consumer account without having to physically present the account identification device . When a transaction is initiated without physically presenting an account identification device the transaction is classified as a card not present CNP transaction.

In general the issuer processor may control more than one consumer account the acquirer processor may control more than one merchant account and the transaction handler is connected between a plurality of issuer processors e.g. and a plurality of acquirer processors e.g. . An entity e.g. bank may operate both an issuer processor and an acquirer processor .

In one embodiment the transaction handler the issuer processor the acquirer processor the transaction terminal the portal and other devices and or services accessing the portal are connected via communications networks such as local area networks cellular telecommunications networks wireless wide area networks wireless local area networks an intranet and Internet. Dedicated communication channels may be used between the transaction handler and the issuer processor between the transaction handler and the acquirer processor and or between the portal and the transaction handler .

In the transaction handler uses the data warehouse to store the records about the transactions such as the transaction records or transaction data .

Typically the transaction handler is implemented using a powerful computer or cluster of computers functioning as a unit controlled by instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The transaction handler is configured to support and deliver authorization services exception file services and clearing and settlement services. The transaction handler has a subsystem to process authorization requests and another subsystem to perform clearing and settlement services. The transaction handler is configured to process different types of transactions such credit card transactions debit card transactions prepaid card transactions and other types of commercial transactions. The transaction handler interconnects the issuer processors e.g. and the acquirer processor e.g. to facilitate payment communications.

In the transaction terminal is configured to submit the authorized transactions to the acquirer processor for settlement. The amount for the settlement may be different from the amount specified in the authorization request. The transaction handler is coupled between the issuer processor and the acquirer processor to facilitate the clearing and settling of the transaction. Clearing includes the exchange of financial information between the issuer processor and the acquirer processor and settlement includes the exchange of funds.

In the issuer processor is configured to provide funds to make payments on behalf of the consumer account . The acquirer processor is to receive the funds on behalf of the merchant account . The issuer processor and the acquirer processor communicate with the transaction handler to coordinate the transfer of funds for the transaction. The funds can be transferred electronically.

The transaction terminal may submit a transaction directly for settlement without having to separately submit an authorization request.

In one embodiment the portal provides a user interface to allow the user to organize the transactions in one or more consumer accounts of the user with one or more issuers. The user may organize the transactions using information and or categories identified in the transaction records such as merchant category transaction date amount etc. Examples and techniques in one embodiment are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 378 215 filed Mar. 16 2006 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2007 0055597 and entitled Method and System for Manipulating Purchase Information the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the portal provides transaction based statistics such as indicators for retail spending monitoring indicators for merchant benchmarking industry market segmentation indicators of spending patterns etc. Further examples can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 191 796 filed Aug. 14 2008 assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2009 0048884 and entitled Merchant Benchmarking Tool U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 940 562 filed Nov. 5 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 940 664 filed Nov. 5 2010 the disclosures of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the transaction terminal includes a memory coupled to the processor which controls the operations of a reader an input device an output device and a network interface . The memory may store instructions for the processor and or data such as an identification that is associated with the merchant account .

In one embodiment the reader includes a magnetic strip reader. In another embodiment the reader includes a contactless reader such as a radio frequency identification RFID reader a near field communications NFC device configured to read data via magnetic field coupling in accordance with ISO standard 14443 NFC a Bluetooth transceiver a WiFi transceiver an infrared transceiver a laser scanner etc.

In one embodiment the input device includes key buttons that can be used to enter the account information directly into the transaction terminal without the physical presence of the account identification device . The input device can be configured to provide further information to initiate a transaction such as a personal identification number PIN password zip code etc. that may be used to access the account identification device or in combination with the account information obtained from the account identification device .

In one embodiment the output device may include a display a speaker and or a printer to present information such as the result of an authorization request a receipt for the transaction an advertisement etc.

In one embodiment the network interface is configured to communicate with the acquirer processor via a telephone connection an Internet connection or a dedicated data communication channel.

In one embodiment the instructions stored in the memory are configured at least to cause the transaction terminal to send an authorization request message to the acquirer processor to initiate a transaction. The transaction terminal may or may not send a separate request for the clearing and settling of the transaction. The instructions stored in the memory are also configured to cause the transaction terminal to perform other types of functions discussed in this description.

In one embodiment a transaction terminal may have fewer components than those illustrated in . For example in one embodiment the transaction terminal is configured for card not present transactions and the transaction terminal does not have a reader .

In one embodiment a transaction terminal may have more components than those illustrated in . For example in one embodiment the transaction terminal is an ATM machine which includes components to dispense cash under certain conditions.

In one embodiment the account identification device includes a memory coupled to the processor which controls the operations of a communication device an input device an audio device and a display device . The memory may store instructions for the processor and or data such as the account information associated with the consumer account .

In one embodiment the account information includes an identifier identifying the issuer and thus the issuer processor among a plurality of issuers and an identifier identifying the consumer account among a plurality of consumer accounts controlled by the issuer processor . The account information may include an expiration date of the account identification device the name of the consumer holding the consumer account and or an identifier identifying the account identification device among a plurality of account identification devices associated with the consumer account .

In one embodiment the account information may further include a loyalty program account number accumulated rewards of the consumer in the loyalty program an address of the consumer a balance of the consumer account transit information e.g. a subway or train pass access information e.g. access badges and or consumer information e.g. name date of birth etc.

In one embodiment the memory includes a nonvolatile memory such as magnetic strip a memory chip a flash memory a Read Only Memory ROM etc. to store the account information .

In one embodiment the information stored in the memory of the account identification device may also be in the form of data tracks that are traditionally associated with credits cards. Such tracks include Track and Track . Track International Air Transport Association stores more information than Track and contains the cardholder s name as well as the account number and other discretionary data. Track is sometimes used by airlines when securing reservations with a credit card. Track American Banking Association is currently most commonly used and is read by ATMs and credit card checkers. The ABA American Banking Association designed the specifications of Track and banks abide by it. It contains the cardholder s account number encrypted PIN and other discretionary data.

In one embodiment the communication device includes a semiconductor chip to implement a transceiver for communication with the reader and an antenna to provide and or receive wireless signals.

In one embodiment the communication device is configured to communicate with the reader . The communication device may include a transmitter to transmit the account information via wireless transmissions such as radio frequency signals magnetic coupling or infrared Bluetooth or WiFi signals etc.

In one embodiment the account identification device is in the form of a mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA etc. The input device can be used to provide input to the processor to control the operation of the account identification device and the audio device and the display device may present status information and or other information such as advertisements or offers. The account identification device may include further components that are not shown in such as a cellular communications subsystem.

In one embodiment the communication device may access the account information stored on the memory without going through the processor .

In one embodiment the account identification device has fewer components than those illustrated in . For example an account identification device does not have the input device the audio device and the display device in one embodiment and in another embodiment an account identification device does not have components .

For example in one embodiment an account identification device is in the form of a debit card a credit card a smartcard or a consumer device that has optional features such as magnetic strips or smartcards.

An example of an account identification device is a magnetic strip attached to a plastic substrate in the form of a card. The magnetic strip is used as the memory of the account identification device to provide the account information . Consumer information such as account number expiration date and consumer name may be printed or embossed on the card. A semiconductor chip implementing the memory and the communication device may also be embedded in the plastic card to provide account information in one embodiment. In one embodiment the account identification device has the semiconductor chip but not the magnetic strip.

In one embodiment the account identification device is integrated with a security device such as an access card a radio frequency identification RFID tag a security card a transponder etc.

In one embodiment the account identification device is a handheld and compact device. In one embodiment the account identification device has a size suitable to be placed in a wallet or pocket of the consumer.

Some examples of an account identification device include a credit card a debit card a stored value device a payment card a gift card a smartcard a smart media card a payroll card a health care card a wrist band a keychain device a supermarket discount card a transponder and a machine readable medium containing account information .

In one embodiment the point of interaction is to provide an advertisement to the user or to provide information derived from the transaction data to the user .

In one embodiment an advertisement is a marketing interaction which may include an announcement and or an offer of a benefit such as a discount incentive reward coupon gift cash back or opportunity e.g. special ticket admission . An advertisement may include an offer of a product or service an announcement of a product or service or a presentation of a brand of products or services or a notice of events facts opinions etc. The advertisements can be presented in text graphics audio video or animation and as printed matter web content interactive media etc. An advertisement may be presented in response to the presence of a financial transaction card or in response to a financial transaction card being used to make a financial transaction or in response to other user activities such as browsing a web page submitting a search request communicating online entering a wireless communication zone etc. In one embodiment the presentation of advertisements may be not a result of a user action.

In one embodiment the point of interaction can be one of various endpoints of the transaction network such as point of sale POS terminals automated teller machines ATMs electronic kiosks or computer kiosks or interactive kiosks self assist checkout terminals vending machines gas pumps websites of banks e.g. issuer banks or acquirer banks of credit cards bank statements e.g. credit card statements websites of the transaction handler websites of merchants checkout websites or web pages for online purchases etc.

In one embodiment the point of interaction may be the same as the transaction terminal such as a point of sale POS terminal an automated teller machine ATM a mobile phone a computer of the user for an online transaction etc. In one embodiment the point of interaction may be co located with or near the transaction terminal e.g. a video monitor or display a digital sign or produced by the transaction terminal e.g. a receipt produced by the transaction terminal . In one embodiment the point of interaction may be separate from and not co located with the transaction terminal such as a mobile phone a personal digital assistant a personal computer of the user a voice mail box of the user an email inbox of the user a digital sign etc.

For example the advertisements can be presented on a portion of media for a transaction with the customer which portion might otherwise be unused and thus referred to as a white space herein. A white space can be on a printed matter e.g. a receipt printed for the transaction or a printed credit card statement on a video display e.g. a display monitor of a POS terminal for a retail transaction an ATM for cash withdrawal or money transfer a personal computer of the customer for online purchases or on an audio channel e.g. an interactive voice response IVR system for a transaction over a telephonic device .

In one embodiment the white space is part of a media channel available to present a message from the transaction handler in connection with the processing of a transaction of the user . In one embodiment the white space is in a media channel that is used to report information about a transaction of the user such as an authorization status a confirmation message a verification message a user interface to verify a password for the online use of the account information a monthly statement an alert or a report or a web page provided by the portal to access a loyalty program associated with the consumer account or a registration program.

In other embodiments the advertisements can also be presented via other media channels which may not involve a transaction processed by the transaction handler . For example the advertisements can be presented on publications or announcements e.g. newspapers magazines books directories radio broadcasts television digital signage etc. which may be in an electronic form or in a printed or painted form . The advertisements may be presented on paper on websites on billboards on digital signs or on audio portals.

In one embodiment the transaction handler purchases the rights to use the media channels from the owner or operators of the media channels and uses the media channels as advertisement spaces. For example white spaces at a point of interaction e.g. with customers for transactions processed by the transaction handler can be used to deliver advertisements relevant to the customers conducting the transactions and the advertisement can be selected based at least in part on the intelligence information derived from the accumulated transaction data and or the context at the point of interaction and or the transaction terminal .

In general a point of interaction e.g. may or may not be capable of receiving inputs from the customers and may or may not co located with a transaction terminal e.g. that initiates the transactions. The white spaces for presenting the advertisement on the point of interaction may be on a portion of a geographical display space e.g. on a screen or on a temporal space e.g. in an audio stream .

In one embodiment the point of interaction may be used to primarily to access services not provided by the transaction handler such as services provided by a search engine a social networking website an online marketplace a blog a news site a television program provider a radio station a satellite a publisher etc.

In one embodiment a consumer device is used as the point of interaction which may be a non portable consumer device or a portable computing device. The consumer device is to provide media content to the user and may receive input from the user .

Examples of non portable consumer devices include a computer terminal a television set a personal computer a set top box or the like. Examples of portable consumer devices include a portable computer a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA a pager a security card a wireless terminal or the like. The consumer device may be implemented as a data processing system as illustrated in with more or fewer components.

In one embodiment the consumer device includes an account identification device . For example a smart card used as an account identification device is integrated with a mobile phone or a personal digital assistant PDA .

In one embodiment the point of interaction is integrated with a transaction terminal . For example a self service checkout terminal includes a touch pad to interact with the user and an ATM machine includes a user interface subsystem to interact with the user .

In one embodiment a computing apparatus is configured to include some of the components of systems illustrated in various figures such as the transaction handler the profile generator the media controller the portal the profile selector the advertisement selector the user tracker the correlator and their associated storage devices such as the data warehouse .

In one embodiment at least some of the components such as the transaction handler the transaction terminal the point of interaction the user tracker the media controller the correlator the profile generator the profile selector the advertisement selector the portal the issuer processor the acquirer processor and the account identification device can be implemented as a computer system such as a data processing system illustrated in . Some of the components may share hardware or be combined on a computer system. In one embodiment a network of computers can be used to implement one or more of the components.

Further the data illustrated in the figures such as transaction data account data transaction profiles and advertisement data can be stored in storage devices of one or more computers accessible to the corresponding components. For example the transaction data can be stored in the data warehouse that can be implemented as a data processing system illustrated in with more or fewer components.

In one embodiment the transaction handler is a payment processing system or a payment card processor such as a card processor for credit cards debit cards etc.

In the data processing system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

In one embodiment the inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to input output I O device s via I O controller s . I O devices may include a display device and or peripheral devices such as mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices known in the art. In one embodiment when the data processing system is a server system some of the I O devices such as printers scanners mice and or keyboards are optional.

In one embodiment the inter connect includes one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controllers include a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

In one embodiment the memory includes one or more of ROM Read Only Memory volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In this description some functions and operations are described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However such expressions are also used to specify that the functions result from execution of the code instructions by a processor such as a microprocessor.

Alternatively or in combination the functions and operations as described here can be implemented using special purpose circuitry with or without software instructions such as using Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . Embodiments can be implemented using hardwired circuitry without software instructions or in combination with software instructions. Thus the techniques are limited neither to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

While one embodiment can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically include one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others. The computer readable media may store the instructions.

The instructions may also be embodied in digital and analog communication links for electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. However propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. are not tangible machine readable medium and are not configured to store instructions.

In general a machine readable medium includes any mechanism that provides i.e. stores and or transmits information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

The description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. The present disclosure is illustrative of inventive features to enable a person skilled in the art to make and use the techniques. Various features as described herein should be used in compliance with all current and future rules laws and regulations related to privacy security permission consent authorization and others. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

The use of headings herein is merely provided for ease of reference and shall not be interpreted in any way to limit this disclosure or the following claims.

Reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment and are not necessarily all referring to separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by one embodiment and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for one embodiment but not other embodiments. Unless excluded by explicit description and or apparent incompatibility any combination of various features described in this description is also included here. For example the features described above in connection with in one embodiment or in some embodiments can be all optionally included in one implementation except where the dependency of certain features on other features as apparent from the description may limit the options of excluding selected features from the implementation and incompatibility of certain features with other features as apparent from the description may limit the options of including selected features together in the implementation.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

