---

title: Submersible vehicle with high maneuvering cyclic-pitch postswirl propulsors
abstract: A submersible vehicle with increased payload and energy savings, more particularly, a submersible vehicle, which may be an unmanned underwater vehicle, with high maneuvering cyclic-pitch postswirl propulsors. The high maneuvering cyclic-pitch postswirl propulsor arrangements are a bow thrust vectoring arrangement and a stern thrust vectoring arrangement. The bow thrust vectoring arrangement is a two-part arrangement having a forward/reverse element and a turning element. Similarly, the stern thrust vectoring arrangement is also a two-part arrangement having a forward/reverse element and a turning element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08919274&OS=08919274&RS=08919274
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08919274
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130521
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a submersible vehicle with increased payload and energy savings more particularly a submersible vehicle which may be an unmanned underwater vehicle with advanced maneuverability cyclic pitch postswirl propulsor.

There is tremendous interest unmanned underwater vehicles UUVs for remotely performing functions such as exploring sensing and mapping or retrieving items e.g. UUVs allow a mother ship to safely gain access to denied areas such as extremely shallow water very poor acoustic conditions or mined waters. Therefore UUVs provide unique capabilities and extend the reach of a mother ship whilst reducing the risk to the mother ship and its crew.

Existing UUVs encounter many challenges during operations which include precise station keeping tight tactical maneuvers in hostile environments such as mined waters as well as retrieval of UUVs for mother ships. Existing UUVs generally employ a single propeller with the control surfaces at the stern to provide standard maneuvering capability but not the ability to face the operations challenges. This results from traditional control surfaces requiring forward speed in order to produce turning moments. In addition the residual torque generated by the propeller needs to be balanced by the control surfaces which generates additional drag for the vehicle and thus increases the power consumption.

The prior art of Haselton as shown in includes a propeller arrangement that provides a solution to many of the abovementioned challenges. show the Haselton submersible vehicle having a vehicle body with bow and stern hub propellers and . According to this prior art design the propellers and rotate in a contra rotating mode using cyclic blade pitch to produce side forces. This design provides both conventional maneuvers such as forward reverse forward reverse turns as well as unconventional maneuvers such as sideways translation turning in place and station keeping hovering in place.

However the Haselton vehicle payload has been sacrificed because of the helicopter swash plate assembly used to implement the cyclic pitch system. The swash plate assembly which includes linkages to for tilting the propellers occupies more space than desired. The complexity of this design may cause reliability concerns. This design also utilizes a lot of energy which is not desired. For example in order to achieve stability both propellers and should be operated contemporaneously. When only one propeller is operated a residual torque is generated which must be balanced by a control surface such as a stabilizer . This results in increasing the power consumption of the vehicle . Also the forward propeller operates in an inefficient environment because its positioning facilitates a minimal boundary layer flow. In addition to those inefficiencies the propellers and are separated so that the aft propeller can t recover the swirl energy from the forward propeller leading to even more energy losses. Thus it is desired to have a submersible vehicle that provides maneuverability similar to the Haselton vehicle but has a simpler design that does not sacrifice the payload and is more energy efficient.

In one aspect the invention is a submersible vehicle. In this aspect the submersible vehicle has a vehicle body having a bow and a stern. The submersible vehicle also includes a propulsion system to propel the vehicle body through the water. According to the invention the propulsion system includes a bow thrust vectoring arrangement having a bow fixed pitch rotor at the bow end for generating forward and reverse thrust and a bow cyclic pitch postswirl stator arrangement downstream of the bow fixed pitch rotor for generating sideways forces. The propulsion system also includes a stern thrust vectoring arrangement having a stern fixed pitch rotor at the stern end for generating forward and reverse thrust and a stern cyclic pitch postswirl stator arrangement downstream of the bow fixed pitch rotor for generating sideways forces.

As shown in the high maneuvering cyclic pitch postswirl propulsor arrangements are actually a bow thrust vectoring arrangement and a stern thrust vectoring arrangement . As shown the bow thrust vectoring arrangement and the stern thrust vectoring arrangement are both mounted on the body of the submersible vehicle . The bow thrust vectoring arrangement and the stern thrust vectoring arrangement are both two part arrangements with a rotor and a cyclic pitch postswirl stator arrangement downstream of the rotor. shows the bow trust vectoring arrangement having a fixed pitch rotor and a cyclic pitch postswirl stator arrangement downstream of the fixed pitch rotor . Similarly the stern trust vectoring arrangement has a fixed pitch rotor and a cyclic pitch postswirl stator arrangement downstream of the fixed pitch rotor . As outlined below the fixed pitch rotors provide forward and reverse thrust for the submersible vehicle. The cyclic pitch postswirl stator arrangements provide sideways movement and in combination with the rotors provide rotational movement.

As shown in the fixed pitch rotor has fixed pitched blades mounted on a ring . The ring is mounted so that it is rotatable as shown by arrow about the longitudinal axis . Similarly the fixed pitch rotor has fixed pitched blades mounted on a ring . The ring is mounted so that it is also rotatable about the longitudinal axis . As shown the rings have a diameter that is substantially equal to the diameter of the vehicle body . The diameter of the rings may also be smaller than the diameter of the vehicle body . When the rings rotate the blades follow the circular path of the ring. The rotors may each be rotated in forward or reverse direction. Thus each rotor may individually provide a forward or reverse thrust force which pushes the submersible vehicle in a forward or a reverse direction. The fixed pitch blades may have any dimensions as known in the art suitable for proper performance according to the environmental conditions.

As stated above the bow thrust vectoring arrangement is a two part arrangement including a forward reverse element and a turning element . Similarly the stern thrust vectoring arrangement is also a two part arrangement including a forward reverse element and a turning element . As outlined below this arrangement is extremely versatile allowing for conventional and non conventional maneuvers. However because of the simplicity of the design the two part thrust and turning arrangements i.e. thrust vectoring arrangements there is no swash plate or other cumbersome mechanical linkages which increase the payload of the vehicle. Additionally each of the two part thrust vectoring arrangements may be operated one at a time without producing any significant residual torque diminishing any requirement for a control surface such as the stabilizer . For example when the bow thrust vectoring arrangement is switched off the stern thrust vectoring arrangement may be turned used and there would be no significant residual torque on the submersible vehicle . Thus as opposed to the prior art it is not necessary to operate both thrust vectoring arrangements to achieve stability. Thus according to the invention a stabilizer as shown may not be necessary.

As shown in the controller arrangement includes a vehicle processor for controlling the movement of the submersible vehicle. The vehicle processor is electronically connected to the motors and the plurality of vane actuators . The vehicle processor which includes a known main memory system controls operations that include amongst other things speed and direction controls. By controlling the actuation of the motors and the vane actuators the processor may control the maneuvering of the submersible vehicle by initiating forward and reverse movements forward and reverse turns sideways translations turning in place and station keeping. As stated above the motors may be preferable be shaftless motors or the like.

As shown in the controller arrangement may include a host device that is remote from the submersible vehicle . According to this embodiment the host device may be a computer having a central processing unit that interfaces wirelessly with the vehicle processor . The host device may be equipped to run one or more mission control programs for directing the movement of the submersible vehicle . Alternatively the submersible vehicle may not require the host device and may be controlled via interface with an input device such as a touchpad joystick or the like which interfaces directly with the vehicle processor . Alternatively the submersible vehicle may programmed to operate autonomously without input from an external source.

The illustrated maneuvers are accomplished by actuating one or both of the bow thrust vectoring arrangement and the stern thrust vectoring arrangement to achieve the desired motion. As outlined above the bow thrust vectoring arrangement includes a member that produces forward reverse motion and a member that produces turning motion. Similarly the stern thrust vectoring arrangement includes a member that produces forward reverse motion and a member that produces turning motion. As outlined above the vehicle processor controls the actuation of the motors and the plurality of vane actuators thereby controlling forward reverse motions and turning motions.

Regarding the maneuvering shown in for example forward thrust Tmay be achieved by the processor which controls both the bow thrust vectoring arrangement and the stern thrust vectoring arrangement . The processor may actuate the bow motor for driving the bow fixed pitch rotor in a forward direction and the stern motor for driving the stern fixed pitch rotor in a forward direction as shown by arrows aand a. Depending on the initial orientation of the cyclic pitch postswirl stator arrangements the processor may initiate the plurality of vane actuators to rotate the plurality of stator vanes about their respective swivel axis so that there is no turning or sideways motion thereby ensuring only a forward thrust T. Because both the bow thrust vectoring arrangement and the stern thrust vectoring arrangement are substantially identical a reverse thrust Tis achieved by doing the opposite i.e. actuating the motors in the reverse direction.

Regarding the maneuvering shown in the thrust Tmay also be achieved when the processor actuates only one of the bow thrust vectoring arrangement and the stern thrust vectoring arrangement . As opposed to prior art arrangements forward reverse stability may be achieved by operating only the bow arrangement or only the stern arrangement because both these arrangements include a cyclic pitch postswirl stator arrangement that prevent sideways motion thereby stabilizing the submersible vehicle . Thus according to this embodiment the processor actuates the bow motor for driving the bow fixed pitch rotor in a forward direction or the stern motor for driving the stern fixed pitch rotor in a forward direction. If the stern motor is initiated by the processor the processor may then may initiate the plurality of vane actuators to rotate the plurality of stator vanes about their respective swivel axis so that there is no turning or sideways motion. This creates a desired forward thrust T. Although not illustrated the forward thrust Tmay also be achieved by initiating the bow motor and the vane actuators to rotate the plurality of stator vanes also creating the desired forward thrust T. A Tin the opposite direction may be achieved by doing the opposite i.e. actuating the respective motors and vane actuators in the reverse direction.

As with the illustrations involve similar actuation protocol. have been outlined in detail as the maneuvers are exemplary of processes involving both of the bow thrust vectoring arrangement and the stern thrust vectoring arrangement as shown in and alternatively only one of the bow thrust vectoring arrangement and the stern thrust vectoring arrangement as shown in . The maneuvers of result from actuating one or both of the bow thrust vectoring arrangement and the stern thrust vectoring arrangement to achieve the desired motion. As stated above the vehicle processor controls the actuation of the motors and vane actuators thereby controlling forward reverse motions and turning motions. The controlled maneuvers shown in are self evident from the illustrations because the steps of controlling are similar to what has been outlined with respect to . However the maneuvers illustrated in are summarized as outlined below.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example as opposed to the substantially cylindrical vehicle body with the conical end and the round end the vehicle body may have any desired shaped that properly accommodates for underwater travel. Also depending on the shape of the vehicle body the fixed pitch rotors may include blades mounted on a hub as opposed to blades mounted on a rotatable ring. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

