---

title: Programming a dynamic digital media queue
abstract: A method and/or system for programming a dynamic digital media queue may include receiving, from an electronic device, a request for a digital media queue. The request may comprise request data. In response to the request, a search of one or more events may be performed. The search of the one or more events may be based on a current date, a current location of the electronic device and/or the request data. One or more digital media items may be determined based on the search. A recommended digital media queue may be determined. The recommended digital media queue may comprise one or more recommended digital media items. Recommendation data may be sent to the electronic device. The recommendation data may comprise the recommended digital media queue and one or more reasons explaining why the recommended digital media queue comprises the one or more recommended digital media items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495455&OS=09495455&RS=09495455
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09495455
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130211
---
Aspects of the present application relate to processing digital media content. More specifically certain implementations of the present disclosure relate to a method and or system for programming a dynamic digital media queue.

Various types of electronic devices are now commonly utilized. In this regard electronic device may include for example personal and non personal devices mobile and non mobile devices communication wired and or wireless devices general and special purpose devices. Examples of electronic devices may comprise cellular phones smartphones tablets personal computers laptops and the like. As the use of electronic devices increases the consumption of digital media content also increases. Users frequently get overwhelmed with digital media content and recommendations for digital media content that do not meet the demands of the users.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and or system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Method and or system for programming a dynamic digital media queue substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present disclosure as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure may be found in a method and or system for programming a dynamic digital media queue. In various embodiments of the disclosure a method and or system for programming a dynamic digital media queue may include receiving from an electronic device a request for a digital media queue. The request may comprise request data.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the request data may comprise data indicative of a current location of the electronic device. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the request may be generated by the electronic device in response to an occurrence of a pre defined criterion e.g. pre defined user interactions . In another example embodiment of the disclosure a current location of the electronic device may be determined.

In response to the request a search of one or more events may be performed. The search of the one or more events may be based on a current date a current location of the electronic device and or the request data. The one or more events may be related to birthdates anniversaries upcoming concerts album releases and local news. One or more digital media items DMIs may be determined based on the search. A recommended digital media queue may be determined. The recommended digital media queue may comprise one or more recommended digital media items. Recommendation data may be sent to the electronic device. The recommendation data may comprise the recommended digital media queue and one or more reasons explaining why the recommended digital media queue comprises the one or more recommended digital media items. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the one or more reasons may be based on the current date and or the current location.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the recommendation data may comprise instructions on how to purchase one or more of the one or more recommended digital media items.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure a particular user associated with the electronic device may be determined. A personal digital media library associated with the user may also be determined. The personal digital media library may comprise one or more personal digital media items PDMIs . The one or more recommended digital media items may comprise one or more of the one or more personal digital media items.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the term block refers to functions processes threads etc. than can be performed by one or more circuits. As utilized herein the term e.g. introduces a list of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein the term server may refer to a plurality of machines at least some of which may be installed in different locations and each of which may be utilized to implement distinct and or redundant functions associated with operations attributed to and or performed by the server.

As used herein the term digital media and or digital media item may comprise any discrete media object such as streaming media audio files video files books magazines articles games slide shows camera captures and the like. Such digital media and or digital media item may be operable to be played back displayed and or otherwise rendered for user consumption. The digital media and or digital media item may comprise an audio and or video content and or any suitable digital media content e.g. AAC AC3 AEH ArchosReader AVI BBeB SonyMedia Complied HTML DV Eveda Flash KF8 LIT MIDI MobiPocket MPEG MP3 MP4 PalmMedia RealAudio RealVideo Shockwave WaveForm QuickTime .

As used herein the term metadata may comprise information and or attributes related to digital media. Such metadata may comprise various information related to digital media for example a name artist name album album artist compositor composer year genre disc number track number duration comments artwork and or other suitable information and or attributes.

The electronic device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate data and or messages via wired and or wireless connections configured in accordance with one or more supported wireless and or wired protocols standards and or interfaces e.g. Ethernet Bluetooth WiFi cellular WiMAX WLAN NFC . The electronic device may be operable to process generate present and or output data and or messages. The electronic device may be enabled to perform run and or execute various functions operations applications and or programs based on for example user instructions and or interactions and or pre configured instructions. In this regard the electronic device may be operable to communicate for example with the programming server the digital media database and or the personal digital media library . For example the electronic device may be enabled to receive one or more digital media items such as for example the DMIs and or PDMIs . The electronic device may be operable to render and or format the DMIs and or the PDMIs for consumption by a user of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may receive process and or present the DMIs and or the PDMIs to the user as part of services provided by a programming server such as for example the programming server . The electronic device may be operable to play the DMIs and or PDMIs through internal and or external speakers and or headsets.

The electronic device may be operable to run applications that incorporate and or are operable to access a personal digital media library such as for example the personal digital media library . In this regard the electronic device may be operable to provide the user of the electronic device with access to the personal digital media library . The electronic device may be operable to detect user interactions e.g. playing purchasing organizing content with the DMDB and or the PDML . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the electronic device may in response to for example the user interactions with the DMDB and or the PDML be operable to request receive and or process requests notifications data and or information relating to managing and or presenting dynamic digital media queues to the user of the electronic device through for example a graphical user interface GUI . The GUI may be operable to present to the user contents of the DMDB and or the PDML and or the dynamic digital media queues received by the electronic device .

The electronic device may comprise a cellular phone smartphone tablet set top box television laptop computer desktop and or personal computer personal media player other device which may communicate process generate present and or output data and or other device that supports consumption of digital media. The disclosure and or any implementation s in accordance therewith however are not limited to any particular type of electronic devices.

The programming server may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide digital media services to electronic devices such as for example the electronic device . For example the programming server may be enabled to provide digital media storage services digital media management services subscription services e.g. streaming digital media subscription services digital media provisioning services e.g. selling transcoding and or downloading digital media and or digital media queuing services e.g. programming a dynamic digital media queue .

The programming server may be operable to communicate data and or messages via wired and or wireless connections configured in accordance with one or more supported wireless and or wired protocols standards and or interfaces e.g. Ethernet Bluetooth WiFi cellular WiMAX WLAN NFC with electronic devices such as for example the electronic device . The programming server may be enabled to process store manage and or communicate data and or messages relevant to providing digital media services to electronic devices such as for example the electronic device . Furthermore the programming server may be operable to provide communication services to and from the electronic device the digital media database and or the personal digital media library . For example the programming server may include one or more transceivers for providing wired and or wireless communication of data to and from the electronic device the digital media database and or the personal digital media library via the communication network and or one or more of the communication links and or .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may receive store manage and or process information and or data relating to user interactions e.g. playing purchasing marking up or down as to indicate preferences and or interests with digital media items.

The programming server may comprise a dedicated system and or a general purpose system configured to provide digital media services e.g. programming a dynamic digital media queue to electronic devices such as for example the electronic device . The disclosure and or any implementation s in accordance therewith however are not limited to any particular type of a programming server. The programming server may for example comprise the programming server as depicted and or described with respect to .

The digital media database DMDB may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to store and or manage a plurality of digital media items DMIs . In this regard the digital media database may be operable to store and or manage the plurality of DMIs digital playlists e.g. dynamic digital media queue comprising one or more of the plurality of the DMIs and or a play order. Even though the digital media database is illustrated as being separate from the programming server the disclosure may not be limited in this regard. More specifically the digital media database may be implemented as part of the programming server and or may correspond to for example the digital media database as depicted in and or described with respect to .

The personal digital media library PDML may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to store and or manage a plurality of personal digital media items PDMIs . In this regard the personal digital media library may be operable to store and or manage the plurality of PDMIs digital playlists e.g. dynamic digital media queue comprising one or more of the plurality of the PDMIs and or a play order. The PDML may store and or manage play purchase and or interaction history associated with the PDMIs . Even though the personal digital media library is illustrated as being separate from the electronic device the disclosure may not be limited in this regard. More specifically the personal digital media library may be implemented as part of the electronic device . Even though the personal digital media library is illustrated as being separate from the programming server the disclosure may not be limited in this regard. More specifically the personal digital media library may be for example hosted in a cloud based storage provided managed and or supported by the programming server and or may be assessable to a user associated with the personal digital medial library from any electronic device such as for example the electronic device .

The communication network may comprise any combination of wired and or wireless protocols standards and or interfaces e.g. Ethernet Bluetooth WiFi satellite and or cellular network WiMAX WLAN NFC that enable communication between electronic devices such as for example the electronic device the programming server the digital media database and or the personal digital media library .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the system may program a dynamic digital media queue e.g. a playlist and or may present the dynamic digital media queue to a user of an electronic device such as for example the electronic device . In this regard the programming server may receive a request from the electronic device to send to the electronic device a new and or to update an existing dynamic digital media queue. The request may be sent to the programming server from the electronic device when for example the user of the electronic device accesses a personal digital media library such as for example the PDML through for example an application running on the electronic device e.g. a media player application a web browser application a media store application . The programming server may receive and or process the request. In this regard the programming server may determine a recommended digital media queue based on the request. For example the programming server may determine a current date and or a current physical location of the electronic device or receive from the electronic device information and or data relating to the physical location of the electronic device . The programming server may determine a recommended digital media queue based on for example the current date and the physical location of the electronic device .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the electronic device may send a request to the programming server for a dynamic digital media queue in response to a pre defined event and or a pre defined user interaction. For example the electronic device may send the request when a user of the electronic device accesses a personal digital media library such as for example the PDML through for example a media player application a web browser application and or a media store application. In response to the request the programming server may determine and or present and or cause to be presented on the electronic device a recommended digital media queue to the user of the electronic device . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may designate one or more criteria based on which a user of the electronic device may be presented with the recommended digital media queue. The criteria may include for example a lapse of a predetermined amount of time between pre defined user interactions e.g. accessing a personal media library interacting with any particular DMI or DMIs etc. a pre defined user action e.g. request for a dynamic digital media queue such as for example Now Playlist which may be based on a current date and or physical location of the electronic device .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may provide and or manage user registration and or authentication services. In this regard a user of an electronic device such as for example the electronic device may register with the registration authentication services provided by the programming server by for example creating a user account. The user may register one or more electronic devices under the user account. The programming server may provide user authentication services. For example the programming server may provide a prompt to the user to enter authentication information on the electronic device through a graphical user interface GUI . The electronic device may send the authentication information to the programming server for authenticating the user.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may automatically authenticate the user or an electronic device associated with the user such as for example the electronic device when the electronic device itself e.g. without the user s intervention or the user through the electronic device sends a request for the programming server to program a dynamic digital media queue. In this regard when the programming server receives the request the programming server may verify the identity of the electronic device . The programming server may initiate and or perform a search on a user registration database to determine whether the electronic device corresponds to a particular user and authenticate the particular user based on the correspondence.

In operation a user of an electronic device such as for example the electronic device may interact with a personal digital media library such as for example the PDML . The electronic device in response to user interactions e.g. accessing an application that provides access to the digital content of the PDML playing and or purchasing digital content etc. may send a request for a dynamic digital media queue to a programming server such as for example the programming server . The programming server may in response to the request determine a recommended digital media queue. The programming server may determine a current date and or a physical location of the electronic device . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may determine and or analyze PDMIs such as for example the PDMIs in the PDML . The programming server may determine a recommended digital media queue based on for example the current date the physical location of the electronic device and or the analysis of the PDMIs . The programming server may send to the electronic device recommendation data. The recommendation data may comprise the recommended digital media queue a request for the electronic device to present or instructions on how to cause to be presented the recommended digital media queue to the user. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the recommendation data may comprise data indicative of one or more reasons explaining why particular digital content was included on the recommended digital media queue. The electronic device may present and or cause to be presented the recommended digital media queue to the user of the electronic device .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may determine a recommended digital media queue based on a physical location of an electronic device such as for example the electronic device . For example the programming server may determine that the electronic device is associated with a particular physical location e.g. Location A. The determination may be based on information and or data received by the programming server from the electronic device . The information and or data may include a history and or a statistical aggregate approximation of a most common physical location in which the electronic device is typically used home location . The information and or data may include user supplied information such as for example a home location e.g. a city region etc. . The programming server may determine that the current physical location of the electronic device is different than the home location and may determine a recommended digital media queue that corresponds to the physical location of the electronic device . For example a user of the electronic device may be visiting Location B for a first time and may be interested in digital media content e.g. listening discovering purchasing songs video and or albums associated with Location B. The recommended digital media queue may for example include digital media items DMIs associated with Location B e.g. Artist C was born in Location C Location B is associated with a specific genre of music . For example Location B may correspond to a particular city such as for example Seattle which may be associated with grunge music genre or New York which may be associated with folk sixties and or coffeehouse music genres and or Texas which may be associated with country music genre. In this regard Location B may be associated with one or more music genres. Also a specific music genre may not be limited to any particular location such as for example Location B.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may determine personal digital media items such as for example the PDMIs from the user s personal digital media library such as for example the PDML in order to determine the user s interests. In this regard the programming server may determine for example that the user s PDML includes relatively many PDMIs by Artist D. The programming server may also determine that for example there is an upcoming concert by Artist D in Location B. The programming server may determine recommended DMIs by Artist D and may cause the recommended DMIs by Artist B to be included on the recommended digital media queue. The programming server may send recommendation date including for example the recommended digital media queue to the electronic device and or instructions on how to retrieve create and or present the recommended digital media queue to the user on the electronic device and or one or more reasons indicative of why particular recommended DMIs were included on the recommended digital media queue. For example the reasons may include an explanation for including particular recommended DMIs by Artist D on the recommended digital media queue explaining that there is an upcoming concert by Artist D in Location B. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may send to the electronic device and or enable the electronic device to provide purchasing option for the user to for example buy tickets to the upcoming concert by Artist D in Location B.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the recommended DMIs on the recommended digital media queue may include one or more PDMIs such as for example PDMIs from user s PDML and or one or more DMIs such as for example DMIs . The included DMIs may not be the same as and or corresponding to the PDMIs in the user s PDML . For example the programming server may determine a recommended digital media queue that comprises digital media items only from user s PDML only from DMDB DMIs that are not found in and or do not correspond to any PDMIs in PDML or from both user s PDML and the DMDB . In this regard the user of the electronic device may be presented with a recommended digital media queue that comprises digital media items that the user owns e.g. may be found in the PDML and digital media items that the user does not own e.g. may not be found in the PDML and may be interested in purchasing and or sampling e.g. listing viewing or otherwise interacting with a sample of a digital media item .

The programming server may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to implement various aspects of the disclosure. In this regard the programming server may correspond to the programming server of . The programming server may for example comprise a main processor a memory a communication subsystem a user registration subsystem and or a programming subsystem .

The main processor may comprise suitable circuitry interfaces logic and or code that may be operable to process data and or control and or manage components operations and or functions of the programming server and or tasks performed therein. In this regard the main processor may configure and or control operations of various components and or subsystems of the programming server such as for example for example the memory the communication subsystem the user registration subsystem and or the programming subsystem by utilizing one or more control signals.

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that that may be operable to enable permanent and or non permanent storage buffering and or fetching of data code and or other information which may be used consumed and or processed by the components of the programming server . In this regard the memory may be enabled to store executable instructions to manage and or configure for example the main processor the communication subsystem the user registration subsystem and or the programming subsystem . The memory may store for example configuration data which may comprise parameters and or code comprising software and or firmware. The memory may comprise different memory technologies including for example read only memory ROM random access memory RAM low latency nonvolatile memory flash memory solid state drive SSD field programmable gate array FPGA and or other suitable electronic data storage capable of storing data code and or other information.

The memory may comprise one or more databases such as for example a user registration database an events database and or a digital media database .

The user registration database may comprise a plurality of entities each corresponding to a particular user of digital media services such as for example the digital media services provided by the programming server . In this regard each entity may comprise information and or data such as for example user name account password information about electronic devices associated with the user e.g. type brand model name phone number serial number and or other information voluntarily submitted by the user e.g. age gender digital content preferences .

The events database may comprise a plurality of entities each corresponding to current and historical events such as for example concerts album releases artist birthday artist anniversaries news stories etc. The entities may be associated with for example a particular artist and or band a particular physical location e.g. city neighborhood region and or a particular date. The entities in the events database may be stored and or retrieved based on for example a particular artist and or band. In this regard the entities may comprise artist and or band specific current and or historical events e.g. birthdays anniversaries upcoming concerts and or song video and or album releases etc. . The entities in the events database may be stored and or retrieved based on for example a physical location. In this regard the entities may comprise location specific artists bands concerts and or other current and historical events. For example if Artist A was born in city A Artist A may be associated with a physical location corresponding to city A. The entities in the events database may be stored and or retrieved based on for example a current date. In this regard the entities may comprise current events e.g. news stories upcoming or current concerts and or song video and or album releases etc. or historical events associated with a particular date e.g. artist s birthday anniversary etc. .

The digital media database may comprise a plurality of entities each corresponding to a digital media item DMI . The digital media database may be substantially similar to for example the digital media database as depicted in and or described with respect to .

The communication subsystem may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate data from and or to the programming server such as via one or more wired and or wireless connections. For example the communication subsystem may comprise one or more transceivers for providing wired and or wireless communication of data. The communication subsystem may be configured to support one or more wired and or wireless protocols standards and or interfaces e.g. Ethernet Bluetooth WiFi satellite and or cellular network WiMAX WLAN NFC facilitating transmission and or reception of signals to and or from the programming server and or processing of transmitted or received signals in accordance with applicable wired or wireless protocols. In this regard signal processing operations may comprise filtering amplification analog to digital conversion and or digital to analog conversion up conversion down conversion of baseband signals encoding decoding encryption decryption and or modulation demodulation.

The user registration subsystem may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate process and or manage user registration and or authentication requests and or device registration and or authentication requests. In this regard the user registration subsystem may be operable to manage user accounts e.g. create and or store new user accounts access store update modify and or mange existing user accounts mange user devices e.g. add delete modify authorize de authorize and or manage devices associated with a particular user account . The registration subsystem may access manage and or process data in a user registration database such as for example the user registration database . For example upon receiving a request to create a new user account the user registration subsystem may create a data entity in the user registration database .

The programming subsystem PSS may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to program a dynamic digital media queue e.g. a playlist . The PSS may be operable to present or cause to be present a recommended digital media queue to a user of an electronic device. The PSS may comprise a location module an events module and or a digital queue module as depicted in and or described with respect to . The PSS may provide location determination services. For example the PSS may receive information and or date from an electronic device indicative of the physical location of the electronic device and or information and or data allowing the PSS to determine a current physical location of the electronic device. The PSS may provide event determination services. For example the PSS may perform a search of a database a database native to the programming server and or a third party database and or a search utilizing a native and or a third party search engine though an application programming interface plug in etc. based on for example a current date and the determined current physical location. The PSS may determine current and or historical events based on the search. The PSS may provide digital media queue services such as for example sending receiving programming and or processing a digital media queue e.g. a playlist . The digital media queue services may be provided for example based on the determined current and or historical events associated with a current date and or the current physical location of the electronic device.

In operation the programming server may be operable to receive from an electronic device such as for example the electronic device a request for a dynamic digital media queue. In this regard the communication subsystem may receive and or process the request. The PSS in response to the request may determine a current date and or a current physical location of the electronic device . The PSS may determine current and or historical events associated with the current date and or the current physical location of the electronic device . Based on the current and or historical events the PSS may initiate a search in an events database such as for example the events database . The PSS may initiate a search in a digital media database such as for example the digital media database to determine one or more digital media items DMIs based on the current and or historical events. The PSS may determine recommended DMIs from the determined DMIs. The PSS may request from the communication subsystem for the communication subsystem to send to the electronic device recommendation data which may comprise a recommended digital media queue comprising for example the recommended DMIs.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the PSS may initiate a search in a use registration database such as for example the user registration database to determine a particular user associated with the electronic device . The PSS may determine recommended DMIs from the determined DMIs based on for example the contents e.g. personal digital media items such as for example PDMIs of a personal digital media library such as for example the PDML associated with the particular user.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may be operable to determine a physical location of an electronic device such as for example the electronic device as depicted in and or described with respect to . In this regard the programming server may be operable to receive and or process various positional or locational signals such as for example signals generated by GPS GNSS BT BTL BTLE and or other sensors associated with electronic devices. The programming server may be operable to receive and or process signals from for example cellular towers and or satellites to determine a physical location of an electronic device.

The components of the programming server such as for example the main processor the memory the communication subsystem the user registration subsystem and or the programming subsystem may be implemented in an integrated or a distributed system. An integrated system may be implemented for example on one computer server machine or device where the integrated system may be configured to perform some or all of the functions features and or operations of the main processor the memory the communication subsystem the user registration subsystem and or the programming subsystem as described herein. A distributed system may be implemented with multiple components e.g. computers servers machines and or devices where each of the multiple components may be configured to perform some or all of the functions features and or operations of the main processor the memory the communication subsystem the user registration subsystem and or the programming subsystem as described herein. Each function feature and or operation may be implemented on one or more of the components of the distributed system. For example a specific feature function and or operation may be implemented only one component of the distributed system or it may be implemented across multiple components of the distributed system.

The PSS may comprise a location module an events module and or a digital queue module . The location module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to determine a physical location of an electronic device such as the electronic device and or to receive send and or process physical location information and or data to and from the electronic device . In this regard to receive and or process various positional or locational signals such as for example signals generated by GPS GNSS BT BTL BTLE and or other sensors associated with the electronic device . For example the location module may determine the location of the electronic device based on one or more such signals. In another example the location module may be operable to receive data from the electronic device comprising physical location information and or data and may based on the information and or data determine a physical location of the electronic device .

The events module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to determine current and historical events. In this regard the events module may be operable to determine a current date and or receive from the location module physical location information and or data. Based on for example the current date and or physical location information and or data the events module may determine one or more events such as for example birthdays anniversaries concerts announcements and or other information and or data relating to for example an artist or a band. The digital queue module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to create modify and or process digital media queues e.g. a playlist .

Referring to there is shown an electronic device a personal digital media library PDML and a programming server .

In operation the programming server may receive a request from the electronic device for a dynamic digital media queue. In response to the request the PSS may determine a particular user associated with the electronic device by initiating a search in the user registration database . Also in response to the request the location module may determine a current physical location of the electronic device or may request and or receive from the electronic device information and or date indicative of the current physical location of the electronic device .

The location module may communicate with the events module and may request from the events module for the events module to determine one or more current and or historical events based on a current date and or the current physical location of the electronic device . In this regard the events module may initiate a search of current and or historical events in the events database .

The events module may communicate with the digital queue module and may request from the digital queue module to determine one or more digital media items DMIs based on the one or more current and or historical events. In this regard the digital queue module may initiate a search of DMIs in the digital media database . The digital queue module may determine a recommended digital media queue which may include one or more of the one or more DMIs.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the digital queue module may determine and or analyze a personal digital media library associated with the particular user as determined by the programming server such as for example the PDML and may analyze the contents of the PDML e.g. personal digital media items . The digital queue module may based on the analysis determine one or more recommended DMIs from for example the previously determined DMIs. The digital queue module may determine a recommended digital media queue which may include one or more of the one or more DMIs.

The programming server may send to the electronic device recommendation data in response to the request for a dynamic digital media queue. The recommendation data may comprise the recommended digital media queue as determined by the digital queue module .

In example step a request for a digital media queue may be received from an electronic device. In this regard the programming server such as for example the programming server may receive from an electronic device such as for example the electronic device request data. The request data may for example be generated by an application running on an electronic device e.g. media player application web browser application in response to for example a pre defined event. In an example embodiment of the disclosure a particular application supporting generating a request for a digital media queue may run on the electronic device and may generate the request data in response to a pre defined criterion such as for example a user direct action e.g. requesting a recommended playlist e.g. the Now Playlist and or a user indirect action e.g. opening a list of playlists in a media player application accessing a media store in a web browser application and or other pre defined criterion e.g. laps of a pre determined amount of time electronic device requested or logged in to one of services provided by the programming server from for example a new geographical location . The programming server may receive and or process the request data in response to the request from the electronic device .

In example step a search of events may be performed based on a current date. In this regard the programming server may initiate a search in an events database such as for example the events database . The search may be based on a current date as determined at the time of the request received in the example step .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may determine a current location of the electronic device from which the request in the example step was received. In another example embodiment of the disclosure the information and or data about a current location of the electronic device may be received as part of the request in the example step . The search of events may be performed based on the current location of the electronic device and or current date. For example if the current location of the electronic device is for example a particular city and the current date is for example Oct. 9 2011 the programming server may initiate a search on the events database using the particular city and the Oct. 9 2011 date as inputs for the search.

Based on the search the programming server may determine one or more events associated with the particular city and or the Oct. 9 2011 date. The events may include for example music concerts birthdays anniversaries current and historical events and or news.

For example the programming server may determine a list of upcoming music concerts in the particular city within a predetermined time from the Oct. 9 2011 date e.g. within 2 months or a list of upcoming concerts of an artist associated with the particular city e.g. was born lived favors the particular city where the concerts may for example be scheduled to occur in a city different that the particular city. In another example the programming server may determine that for example Artist A Artist B and or Artist C were all born or died on October 9. In yet another example the programming server may determine current news on Oct. 9 2011 such as for example a discovery of a new planet a political event a musical event and or any other event e.g. a child was born to an artist that may be used in determining a recommended digital media queue such as the recommended digital media queue described with respect to the example step . In yet another example the programming server may determine that for example Artist D and or E is each associated with the particular city e.g. was born lived favors the particular city .

In example step one or more digital media items DMIs may be determined based on the search performed according to the example step . The programming server may initiate a search on a digital media database such as for example the digital media database or the digital media database based on the events determined in the example step . For example if the programming events included for example a concert by Artist F in the particular city a birthday of Artist G on October 9 and or an announcement of a discovery of a new planet the programming server may initiate a search on the digital media database or the digital media database for DMIs associated with Artist F and Artist F s upcoming concert e.g. DMIs promoting Artist F s new songs and or videos for DMIs associated with Artist G e.g. popular songs and or videos by Artist G including for example best known hits most recent hits etc. and or for DMIs related to discovery of a new planet e.g. song and or video that are thematically related to for example space planets etc. .

In example step a recommended digital media queue may be determined. In this regard the programming server may determine one or more recommended digital media items recommended DMIs based on the one or more digital media items determined in the example step . For example the programming server may determine a pre defied number of DMIs to be included as the recommended DMIs on the recommended digital media queue. The programming server may prioritize DMIs based on category. For example the DMIs associated with Artist G may have a higher priority than DMIs associated with Artist F. The priority may be based on one or more pre defined criteria e.g. a current promotion relating to a particular artist preference of DMIs determined based on a date as opposed to the location and vice versa preference of DMIs determined based on a birthday than on a news event etc. . The programming server may further determine a play order for the recommended DMIs e.g. preset random based on pre defined criteria including for example artist priority event priority etc. . The recommended digital media queue may comprise the recommended DMIs and the play order.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may determine a particular user is associated with the electronic device from which the request in example step was received. The programming server may determine a personal digital media library PDML such as for example the PDML comprising personal digital media items PDMIs such as for example the PDMIs associated with the particular user and may analyze the PDML including for example a personal digital media items play history purchase history and or other user interactions with respect to the personal digital media items . The analysis of the PDML may be one example criterion in part based on which the programming server may determine the recommended DMIs. For example the programming server may compare the one or more DMIs determined in the example step and the PDMIs some or all as determined through the analysis of the PDML . The comparison may include for example a comparison of similarity between the DMIs and the PDMIs e.g. same or similar artist album genre etc. in the particular user s PDML . The programming server may sue a variety of digital media comparison methods e.g. metadata comparison song analysis etc. Based on the comparison the programming server may determine one or more recommend DMIs from the DMIs.

In another example embodiment of the disclosure the programming server may determine one or more recommended DMIs from the PDMIs from a particular user s PDML .

In example step recommendation data may be sent to the electronic device . The recommendation data may comprise the recommended digital media queue determined in the example step . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the recommendation data may comprise one or more reasons explaining why the recommended DMIs were included on the recommended digital media queue. For example an example recommended digital media queue may comprise DMI 1 DMI 2 DMI 3 and DMI 4. DMI 1 may be associated with Artist F DMI 2 may be associated with Artist G and DMI 3 and DMI 4 may be associated with the discovery of a planet event an example association is illustrated in the example steps and or above . The one or more reasons for the example recommended digital media queue may for example convey data and or information indicating that for example DMI 1 was included because of an upcoming concert by Artist F in the particular city DMI 2 was included because of a birthday of Artist G on October 9 and DMIs 3 and DMI 4 were included because of a discovery of a new planet.

It is to be understood that when contents e.g. a queue a playlist a DMI are sent received stored and or processed as described herein the contents may comprise the contents themselves e.g. the actual digital media item and or file corresponding to a particular digital media content being sent received stored and or processed pointers to the contents e.g. identifies IDs and or pointers to an entity and or item in for example a database and or a storage location corresponding to the particular digital media content being sent received stored and or processed a text file representative of the contents a list of the contents and or any other form that may allow a programming server such as for example the programming server and or and or an electronic device such as for example the electronic device to identify determine and or process the contents accordingly.

Other implementations may provide a computer readable medium and or storage medium and or a machine readable medium and or storage medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for programming a dynamic digital media queue.

Accordingly the present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present method and or system may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other system adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip.

The present method and or system may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

