---

title: High density polyurethane and polyisocyanurate construction boards and composite boards
abstract: A construction board comprising a cellular body including at least one planar surface, where the cellular body includes a polyurethane or polyisocyanurate cellular structure, where the cellular structure has a density greater than about 2.5 pounds per cubic foot, an ISO index of at least 270, and where the cellular body includes at least 5.0% by weight flame retardant based on the weight of the cellular body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09221234&OS=09221234&RS=09221234
owner: Firestone Building Products Company, LLC
number: 09221234
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130508
---
This application is the continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 525 159 filed Oct. 26 2009 which is the national stage application of international application serial no. PCT US2008 001236 filed on Jan. 30 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 898 353 filed Jan. 30 2007 all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed toward high density polyurethane or polyisocyanurate construction boards and composite boards as well as their use in flat or low slope roofing systems.

Flat or low slope roofs are often covered with multi layered roofing systems. These roofing systems often include a roof deck an insulation layer and a protective weather resistant membrane. In some situations a coverboard is also employed. In many situations insulation boards are typically adhered directly to a roof deck which is most commonly constructed of concrete or steel. These insulation boards are typically closed cell foams that include polyurethane or polyisocyanurate cellular materials with an insulating gas trapped within the cells. The insulation boards are then covered with the weather resistant membrane.

The foam insulation boards are typically low density cellular structures. The low density stems from two primary considerations. The first is cost because lower density cellular structures employ less material. Also and often more important the insulation value of the board can be improved with lower density structures. While a density of zero would be ideal i.e. a vacuum a certain degree of cellular structure which gives rise to the density is required to maintain the integrity of the insulation boards. Particularly a foam core density of greater than about 1.5 pounds per cubic foot pcf 7.323641 kg m is needed to maintain strength and a core density of less than about 2 pcf 9.764855 kg m is conventional for cost and insulation considerations.

Coverboards typically include fiber boards gypsum products such as densdeck and perlite boards. Coverboards are typically used to add integrity to the roof. For example especially where improved fire performance is sought the coverboard may first be applied to the steel deck the insulation board is applied on top of the coverboard and the membrane is then applied over the insulation board. Alternatively especially where the roof may experience heavy traffic the insulation board may be applied to the roof deck the coverboard applied over the insulation board and then the membrane is applied over the coverboard. In the latter situation the coverboard obviously provides protection to the insulation board which is prone to denting or damage due to the fact that the insulation boards are low density cellular materials.

Coverboards are also extensively used in re roofing situations. In these applications the coverboard may be referred to as a re coverboard. As with residential roofs flat or low slope roofs can be re roofed without removing or tearing off the existing roofing membrane. In many instances the re coverboard is first applied to the existing roofing membrane before a new roofing membrane is applied to the roof. Also an additional layer of insulation board can be applied before the new membrane is applied. Depending upon the result desired the re coverboard can be applied above or below the insulation board.

In other instances a composite board is employed in lieu of or possible in addition to the coverboard and insulation board. The composite boards include an insulation layer together with a layer that is rather robust such as a wood fiber gypsum or perlite board. One advantage of the composite board is the ease of installation. In other words rather than apply both an insulation board and a coverboard the composite board can simply be installed in a one step process. Other advantages have been observed based upon the fact that the composite board is formed integrally within a controlled environment i.e. the factory .

The use of construction boards in new roofing systems and re roof situations is therefore technologically important thereby necessitating further advancement in the field.

Certain embodiments are directed toward a covered low slope or flat roof comprising a roof deck an optional insulation board including a polyurethane or polyisocyanurate cellular structure having a density that is less than 2.5 pounds per cubic foot 12.20607 kg m a coverboard including a polyurethane or polyisocyanurate cellular structure where the cellular structure has a density greater than about 2.5 pounds per cubic foot an ISO index of at least 270 and includes at least 5.0 weight percent flame retardant based on the weight of the cellular structure and a membrane.

Other embodiments are directed toward a method of re roofing a low slope or flat roof the method comprising applying a re coverboard to an existing covered low slope or flat roof wherein the re coverboard includes a polyurethane or polyisocyanurate cellular structure where the cellular structure has a density greater than about 2.5 pounds per cubic foot an ISO index of at least 270 and includes at least 18 parts by weight flame retardant per 100 parts by weight polyol and applying a membrane to the re coverboard subsequent to the step of applying a re coverboard.

Other embodiments are directed toward a construction board comprising a cellular body including at least one planar surface where the cellular body includes a polyurethane or polyisocyanurate cellular structure where the cellular structure has a density greater than about 2.5 pounds per cubic foot an ISO index of at least 270 and where the cellular body includes at least 5.0 by weight flame retardant based on the weight of the cellular body.

One or more embodiments of the present invention are directed toward a high density polyurethane or polyisocyanurate cellular construction boards. The unique high density characteristics of these boards allow them to be advantageously used in the construction of new flat or low sloped roofs as well as in re roofing situations. In other words these construction boards are useful as coverboards or re coverboards. In one or more embodiments the construction boards advantageously meet requirements imposed by UL 790 for flame spread. In these or other embodiments the construction boards include a hydrocarbon blowing agent within the cells of the boards.

A high density board according to one or more embodiments is depicted in . Board includes a cellular body having a planar shape with first planar surface and second planar surface each defined by a length and a width . Board may also be characterized by a thickness . Length and width of board may vary and these embodiments are not necessarily limited by the selection of a particular length or width. Nonetheless because these boards are advantageously employed in the construction industry board may be sized to a 4 8 sheet e.g. 3.75 7.75 a 4 10 sheet or a 4 4 sheet. The thickness of the board can generally be greater than about 0.255 inches 0.65 cm in other embodiments greater than about 0.30 inches 0.76 cm in other embodiments greater than about 0.375 inches 0.95 cm and in other embodiments greater than about 0.40 inches 1.01 cm . In these or other embodiments the thickness may be from about 0.375 to 2.0 inches 0.95 5.08 cm or in other embodiments from about 0.38 to 0.75 inches 0.97 1.91 cm in thickness.

Board may include an optional facer which can be positioned adjacent one of the first or second planar surfaces or . For example as shown in facer may be positioned adjacent second planer surface . A planar interface may exist between cellular body and at least one facer .

Facer may include a variety of materials or compositions many of which are known or conventional in the art. Useful facers include those comprising aluminum foil cellulosic fibers reinforced cellulosic fibers craft paper coated glass fiber mats uncoated glass fiber mats chopped glass and combinations thereof. Useful facer materials are known as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 774 071 6 355 701 RE 36674 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 044 604 and 5 891 563 which are incorporated herein by reference. The thickness of the facer material may vary for example it may be from about 0.01 to about 1.00 inches thick 0.025 2.54 cm or in other embodiments from about 0.015 to about 0.050 inches thick 0.04 0.13 cm or in other embodiments from about 0.015 to about 0.030 inches thick 0.04 0.07 cm . The facer materials can also include more robust or rigid materials such as fiber board perlite board or gypsum board. The thickness of the rigid facer can vary for example the thickness of the rigid facer can be from about 0.2 to about 1.5 inches 0.51 3.8 cm or in other embodiments from about 0.25 to about 1.0 inches 0.64 2.54 cm .

As shown in board may also optionally include a facer positioned adjacent the planer surface opposite the planar surface on which facer is positioned. For example facer is positioned adjacent second planer surface and facer is positioned adjacent first planer surface . Facer can include the same or different materials or compositions as well as the same or different thickness as facer .

Also as noted above facers and are optional. Therefore in one or more embodiments board may be facerless. The ability to produce facerless construction boards is known as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 117 375 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Body includes a polyurethane or polyisocyanurate cellular structure which may include an interconnected network of solid struts or plates that form the edges and faces of cells. These cellular structures may in one or more embodiments also be defined by a relative density that is less than about 0.8 in other embodiments less than 0.5 and in other embodiments less than 0.3. As those skilled in the art will appreciate relative density refers to the density of the cellular material divided by that of the solid from which the cell walls are made. As the relative density increases the cell walls thicken and the pore space shrinks such that at some point there is a transition from a cellular structure to one that is better defied as a solid containing isolated pores.

Despite the cellular nature of body it has a high density. In one or more embodiments the density of body is greater than 2.5 pounds per cubic foot 12.2 kg m as determined according to ASTM C303 in other embodiments the density is greater than 2.8 pounds per cubic foot 13.7 kg m in other embodiments greater than 3.0 pounds per cubic foot 14.6 kg m and still in other embodiments greater than 3.5 pounds per cubic foot 17.1 kg m on the other hand in one or more embodiments the density of body may be less than 20 pounds per cubic foot 97.6 kg m in other embodiments less than 10 pounds per cubic foot 48.8 kg m in other embodiments less than 6 pounds per cubic foot 29.3 kg m in other embodiments less than 5.9 pounds per cubic foot 28.8 kg m in other embodiments less than 5.8 pounds per cubic foot 28.3 kg m in other embodiments less than 5.7 pounds per cubic foot 27.8 kg m in other embodiments less than 5.6 pounds per cubic foot 27.3 kg m and still in other embodiments less than 5.5 pounds per cubic foot 26.9 kg m .

In one or more embodiments body is characterized by an ISO Index as determined by PIR PUR ratio as determined by IR spectroscopy using standard foams of known index note that ratio of 3 PIR PUR provides an ISO Index of 300 of at least 270 in other embodiments at least 285 in other embodiments at least 300 in other embodiments at least 315 and in other embodiments at least 325. In these or other embodiments the ISO Index is less than 360 in other embodiments less than 350 in other embodiments less then 340 and in other embodiments less than 335.

In one or more embodiments body includes a flame retardant content of at least 5.0 wt in other embodiments at least about 5.5 wt in other embodiments at least about 5.75 wt in other embodiments at least about 6.0 wt in other embodiments at least about 6.25 wt and in other embodiments at least about 6.3 wt where the wt is based upon the total weight of a given sample of the cellular body i.e. the foam . In these or other embodiments the flame retardant content is less than about 15 wt in other embodiments less than about 10 wt and in other embodiments less than about 8 wt .

In one or more embodiments body and at least one of the facers e.g. facer are intimately bonded along their interface as a result of the process by which the construction board is formed. For example in one or more embodiments the developing foam may contact the facer partially diffuse into or be absorbed by the facer and cure which thereby bonds cellular body to the facer. This bond may include a mechanical bond a chemical bond or both a chemical and mechanical bond. Where the at least one facer includes cellulose material a chemical bond may be formed between the cellular body and the facer along their interface. Despite the relatively high ISO Index of cellular body the bond between at least one facer and cellular body may be characterized by a tensile strength of at least 3.5 psi in other embodiments at least 5.0 psi and in other embodiments at least 6.0 psi as determined by ASTM method C 209 Tensile Strength perpendicular to surfaces using 250 F. 121.1111 C. hot melt adhesive systems.

The boards of one or more embodiments of this invention can be generally manufactured by using known techniques for producing polyurethane or polyisocyanurate insulation In general processes for the manufacture of polyurethane or polyisocyanurate insulation boards are known in the art as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 117 375 6 044 604 5 891 563 5 573 092 U.S. Publication Nos. 2004 01099832003 0082365 2003 0153656 2003 0032351 and 2002 0013379 as well as U.S. Ser. Nos. 10 640 895 10 925 654 and Ser. No. 10 632 343 which are incorporated herein by reference.

In one or more embodiments the boards of the present invention may be produced by developing or forming polyurethane and or polyisocyanurate foam in the presence of a blowing agent. The foam may be prepared by contacting an A side stream of reagents with a B side stream of reagents and depositing the mixture or developing foam onto a laminator carrying a facer. The A side stream may include an isocyanate compound and the B side may include an isocyanate reactive compound.

In one or more embodiments the A side stream may only contain the isocyanate. In other embodiments the A side stream may also contain flame retardants surfactants blowing agents and other non isocyanate reactive components.

Suitable isocyanates are generally known in the art. In one or more embodiments useful isocyanates include aromatic polyisocyanates such as diphenyl methane diisocyanate in the form of its 2 4 2 2 and 4 4 isomers and mixtures thereof the mixtures of diphenyl methane diisocyanates MDI and oligomers thereof known in the art as crude or polymeric MDI having an isocyanate functionality of greater than 2 toluene diisocyanate in the form of its 2 4 and 2 6 isomers and mixtures thereof 1 5 naphthalene diisocyanate and 1 4 diisocyanatobenzene. Exemplary isocyanate components include polymeric Rubinate 1850 Huntsmen Polyurethanes polymeric Lupranate M70R BASF and polymeric Mondur 489N Bayer .

The B side stream which contains isocyanate reactive compounds may also include flame retardants catalysts emulsifiers solubilizers surfactants blowing agents fillers fungicides anti static substances water and other ingredients that are conventional in the art.

An exemplary isocyanate reactive component is a polyol. In one or more embodiments polyols or polyols components include diols polyols and glycols which may contain water as generally known in the art. Primary and secondary amines are suitable as are polyether polyols and polyester polyols. Useful polyester polyols include phthalic anhydride based PS 2352 Stepen phthalic anhydride based polyol PS 2412 Stepen teraphthalic based polyol 3522 Kosa and a blended polyol TR 564 Oxid . Useful polyether polyols include those based on sucrose glycerin and toluene diamine. Examples of glycols include diethylene glycol dipropylene glycol and ethylene glycol. Suitable primary and secondary amines include without limitation ethylene diamine and diethanolamine. In one embodiment a polyester polyol is employed. In one or more embodiments the present invention may be practiced in the appreciable absence of any polyether polyol. In certain embodiments the ingredients are devoid of polyether polyols.

Catalysts are believed to initiate the polymerization reaction between the isocyanate and the polyol as well as a trimerization reaction between free isocyanate groups when polyisocyanurate foam is desired. While some catalysts expedite both reactions two or more catalysts may be employed to achieve both reactions. In one or more embodiments useful catalysts include salts of alkali metals and carboxylic acids or phenols such as for example potassium octoate mononuclear or polynuclear Mannich bases of condensable phenols oxo compounds and secondary amines which are optionally substituted with alkyl groups aryl groups or aralkyl groups tertiary amines such as pentamethyldiethylene triamine PMDETA 2 4 6 tris dimethylamino methyl phenol triethyl amine tributyl amine N methyl morpholine and N ethyl morpholine basic nitrogen compounds such as tetra alkyl ammonium hydroxides alkali metal hydroxides alkali metal phenolates and alkali metal acholates and organic metal compounds such as tin II salts of carboxylic acids tin IV compounds and organo lead compounds such as lead naphthenate and lead octoate.

Surfactants emulsifiers and or solubilizers may also be employed in the production of polyurethane and polyisocyanurate foams in order to increase the compatibility of the blowing agents with the isocyanate and polyol components.

Surfactants may serve two purposes. First they may help to emulsify solubilize all the components so that they react completely. Second they may promote cell nucleation and cell stabilization. Exemplary surfactants include silicone co polymers or organic polymers bonded to a silicone polymer. Although surfactants can serve both functions a more cost effective method to ensure emulsification solubilization may be to use enough emulsifiers solubilizers to maintain emulsification solubilization and a minimal amount of the surfactant to obtain good cell nucleation and cell stabilization. Examples of surfactants include Pelron surfactant 9920 Goldschmidt surfactant B8522 and GE 6912. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 686 499 and 5 837 742 are incorporated herein by reference to show various useful surfactants.

Suitable emulsifiers solubilizers include DABCO Kitane 20AS Air Products and Tergitol NP 9 nonylphenol 9 moles ethylene oxide .

In one ore more embodiments useful flame retardants include tri monochloropropyl phosphate a.k.a. tris cloro propyl phosphate tri 2 chloroethyl phosphate a.k.a tris chloro ethyl phosphate phosphonic acid methyl ester dimethyl ester and diethyl ester. U.S. Pat. No. 5 182 309 is incorporated herein by reference to show useful blowing agents. In one or more embodiments the flame retardant employed in the practice of the present invention is a liquid at standard conditions of temperature and pressure e.g. 25 C. and 1 atm .

In one or more embodiments useful blowing agents include hydrocarbons. In other embodiments useful blowing agents include fluorinated hydrocarbons. Exemplary blowing agents include isopentane n pentane cyclopentane alkanes cyclo alkanes hydrofluorocarbons hydrochlorofluorocarbons fluorocarbons fluorinated ethers alkenes alkynes carbon dioxide and noble gases.

In one or more embodiments the equivalent ratio of isocyanate groups to isocyanate reactive groups introduced to prepare the developing foam is at least 2.7 1 in other embodiments at least 2.85 1 in other embodiments at least 3.0 1 in other embodiments at least 3.15 1 and in other embodiments at least 3.25 1. In these or other embodiments the equivalent ratio of isocyanate groups to isocyanate reactive groups is less than 3.6 1 in other embodiments less than 3.5 1 and in other embodiments less than 3.4 1. As those skilled in the art appreciate the equivalent ratio refers to ratio of the number of moles of isocyanate groups in a given weight of isocyanate reactant to the number of moles of isocyanate reactive groups in a given weight of isocyanate reactive reactant. Stated another way the equivalent ratio is a molar ratio of isocyanate groups in a given weight of A side stream to isocyanate reactive groups in a given weight of B side stream that is introduced and mixed to form the developing foam.

Other reactants employed may be described with reference to the amount of polyol e.g. per 100 parts by weight polyol php . Depending on the hydroxyl content of the polyol the NCO content of the isocyanate and the amount of water in the reactants the amounts may vary. Accordingly the amounts of the reactants provided for herein are with reference to the ingredients conventionally employed which are generally characterized as follows the polyols typically have a hydroxyl content or hydroxyl number KOH g of polyol of from about 230 to about 250 the isocyanates typically have an NCO content or isocaynate value of about 30 to about 32 and the ingredients typically contain about 0.25 to about 0.50 parts by weight of water per 100 parts by weight polyol. Hydroxyl content may be determined by acetylation with pyridine and acetic anhydride in which the result is obtained as the difference between two titrations with KOH solution the hydroxyl value may be defined as the weight of KOH in milligrams that will neutralize the acetic capable of combining by acetylation with one gram of the polyol. NCO content refers to the weight percentage of reactive NCO groups. While the foregoing ranges are provided to give guidance to those skilled in the art the same should not be understood as limiting inasmuch as construction boards having the advantageous characteristics of this invention can be prepared by using ingredients having distinct characteristics.

In view of the foregoing in one or more embodiments the foam reactants i.e. the A side and or B side employed to produce the developing foam i.e. foam giving rise to the cellular body of the construction boards of the present invention may include at least 10 parts by weight flame retardant in other embodiments at least 15 parts by weight flame retardant in other embodiments at least 18 parts by weight flame retardant and in other embodiments at least 20 parts by weight flame retardant per 100 parts by weight polyol. In these or other embodiments the foam reactants i.e. the A side and or B side employed to produce the developing foam of the construction boards of the present invention may include less than 50 parts by weight flame retardant in other embodiments less than 40 parts by weight flame retardant in other embodiments less than 30 parts by weight flame retardant and in other embodiments less than 25 parts by weight flame retardant per 100 parts by weight polyol.

In one or more embodiments the foam reactants i.e. the A side and or B side employed to produce the developing foam of the construction boards of the present invention may include at least 20 parts by weight blowing agent in other embodiments at least 8 parts by weight blowing agent in other embodiments at least 7 parts by weight blowing agent and in other embodiments at least 6 parts by weight blowing agent per 100 parts by weight polyol. In these or other embodiments the foam reactants i.e. the A side and or B side employed to produce the developing foam of the construction boards of the present invention may include less than 8 parts by weight blowing agent in other embodiments less than 7 parts by weight blowing agent in other embodiments less than 6 parts by weight blowing agent and in other embodiments less than 5.5 parts by weight blowing agent per 100 parts by weight polyol. Depending on the required density of the board the amount of blowing agent may need to be decreased up to about 95 from a standard formulation. The amount of water may also optimally be reduced. The less blowing agent used the less catalyst is generally used.

In one or more embodiments the foam reactants i.e. the A side and or B side employed to produce the developing foam of the construction boards of the present invention may include at least 10 parts by weight catalyst in other embodiments at least 15 parts by weight catalyst in other embodiments at least 18 parts by weight catalyst and in other embodiments at least 20 parts by weight catalyst per 100 parts by weight polyol.

In one or more embodiments the cellular construction boards of the present invention are formed using a laminator. The higher density and potentially higher foam expansion pressure may necessitate higher hydraulic clamping pressure to maintain uniform board thickness and to move the product down the laminator. In one or more embodiments the construction boards are produced by contacting the A side and B side streams within a mix head. The pressure at which the A side and B side are contacted within the mix head may be in excess of 2 000 psi 140.6 kg cm in other embodiments in excess of 2 100 psi 147.6 kg cm in other embodiments in excess of 2 200 psi 154.7 kg cm and in other embodiments in excess of 2 400 psi 168.7 kg cm . In particular embodiments the temperature of the B side ingredients or mixture is increased to at least 86 C. in other embodiments at least 88 C. in other embodiments at least 90 C. and in other embodiments at least 92 C. immediately prior to entry into the mix head.

As noted above the high density polyurethane or polyisocyanurate boards of this invention may be employed in the construction of new roofing structures and thereby form a unique flat or low slope roofing system. For example respectively show unique roofing systems and that employ high density board . Furthermore although the high density board depicted in does not include facers facers can be used.

As shown in roofing system includes a roof deck having insulation board disposed thereon high density board positioned on optional insulation board and a water protective layer or membrane disposed on top of high density board . In an alternate embodiment as shown in roofing system includes roof deck with high density board disposed thereon. Insulation board is positioned on high density board and water protective layer or membrane is disposed on top of optional insulation board .

The particular embodiment shown in is advantageous on roofs that experience high traffic and or heavy loads. High density board can be fairly robust and durable and therefore protects insulation board from damage. As those skilled in the art will appreciate the low density nature of insulation board makes it susceptible to damage particularly through denting when it is mechanically impinged such as by pedestrian or vehicle traffic or by objects falling and contacting the roof. Also the embodiment shown in may advantageously reduce flame propagation in exterior fire tests such as UL 790 or ASTM E108.

Practice of this invention is not limited by the selection of any particular roof deck. Accordingly the roofing systems of this embodiment as shown in can include a variety of roof decks. Exemplary roof decks include concrete pads steel decks wood beams and foamed concrete decks.

Practice of this invention is likewise not limited by the selection of any particular insulation board. As is known in the art several insulation materials can be employed. In one embodiment the insulation board comprises polyurethane or polyisocyanurate cellular material. These insulation boards are known in the art as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 117 375 6 044 604 5 891 563 5 573 092 U.S. Publication Nos. 2004 01099832003 0082365 2003 0153656 2003 0032351 and 2002 0013379 as well as U.S. Ser. Nos. 10 640 895 10 925 654 and Ser. No. 10 632 343 which are incorporated herein by reference. In general polyurethane is characterized by having an index of from about 100 to about 120 polyisocyanurate is generally characterized by having an index that is in excess of 150 in other embodiments at least 175 and in other embodiments at least 200 and insulation with an index between 120 and 150 generally includes a mix of polyurethane and polyisocyanurate.

In those embodiments where the insulation layer comprises polyurethane or polyisocyanurate cellular material these cellular materials are defined by a foam density ASTM C303 that is less than 2.5 pounds per cubic foot 12 kg m in other embodiments less than 2.0 pounds per cubic foot 9.8 kg m in other embodiments less than 1.9 pounds per cubic foot 9.3 kg m and still in other embodiments less than 1.8 pounds per cubic foot 8.8 kg m . In one or more embodiments these polyurethane or polyisocyanurate insulation layers are likewise characterized by having a density that is greater than 1.50 pounds per cubic foot 7.32 kg m and optionally greater than 1.55 pounds per cubic foot 7.57 kg m .

Practice of this invention is likewise not limited by the selection of any water protective layer or membrane. As is known in the art several membranes can be employed to protect the roofing system from environmental exposure particularly environmental moisture in the form of rain or snow. Useful protective membranes include polymeric membranes. Useful polymeric membranes include both thermoplastic and thermoset materials. For example and as is known in the art membrane prepared from poly ethylene co propylene co diene terpolymer rubber or poly ethylene co propylene copolymer rubber can be used. Roofing membranes made from these materials are well known in the art as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 632 509 6 615 892 5 700 538 5 703 154 5 804 661 5 854 327 5 093 206 and 5 468 550 which are incorporated herein by reference. Other useful polymeric membranes include those made from various thermoplastic polymers or polymer composites. For example thermoplastic olefin i.e. TPO thermoplastic vulcanizate i.e. TPV or polyvinylchloride PVC materials can be used. The use of these materials for roofing membranes is known in the art as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 502 360 6 743 864 6 543 199 5 725 711 5 516 829 5 512 118 and 5 486 249 which are incorporated herein by reference. In one or more embodiments the membranes include those defined by ASTM D4637 03 and or ASTM D6878 03.

Still in other embodiments the protective membrane can include bituminous or asphalt membranes. In one embodiment these asphalt membranes derive from asphalt sheeting that is applied to the roof. These asphalt roofing membranes are known in the art as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 579 921 6 110 846 and 6 764 733 which are incorporated herein by reference. In other embodiments the protective membrane can derive from the application of hot asphalt to the roof.

Other layers or elements of the roofing systems are not excluded by the practice of this invention. For example and as is known in the art another layer of material can be applied on top of the protective membrane. Often these materials are applied to protect the protective membranes from exposure to electromagnetic radiation particularly that radiation in the form of UV light. In certain instances ballast material is applied over the protective membrane. In many instances this ballast material simply includes aggregate in the form of rock stone or gravel U.S. Pat. No. 6 487 830 is incorporated herein in this regard.

The high density boards are also advantageously useful in re roof situations. In other words and as is known in the art an existing roof can be re roofed without the need to remove one or more of the existing layers of the existing roof system. Indeed a secondary roofing system can be applied directly over the existing roofing system. In these instances it is advantageous to apply a re coverboard over the existing roof before application of another protective membrane. In certain instances a second layer of insulation i.e. a recover insulation layer may also be applied. The additional layer of insulation can be applied above or below the re coverboard and therefore the protective membrane is either applied to the re coverboard or the recover insulation layer. The high density boards of this invention are advantageously applied in re roofing situations as a recovery board.

For example one embodiment is shown in which includes an original roofing system and a re roof system . In a manner consistent with that described above existing roof includes roof deck insulation layer protective membrane and ballast material . Disposed on existing roof is re roof system which includes high density re coverboard recover protective membrane and ballast material . As noted above high density re coverboard is consistent with the high density boards described hereinabove with respect to the new roof construction. The nature of this high density board advantageously allows it to be used as a re coverboard. That is re coverboard can be applied directly to an existing roof. The robust nature of re coverboard advantageously allows it to be applied directly to material such as ballast material .

In other embodiments the re coverboard of this embodiment can be applied directly to an existing roofing membrane. For example and as shown in re coverboard and protective membrane can form a re roof system on top of an existing roofing system which includes existing roof deck existing insulation layer and existing protective membrane .

In another embodiment a composite construction board is provided. In one embodiment this composite board can advantageously be employed in the manufacture of new construction roofing systems. In other embodiments the composite boards can advantageously be employed in re roof situations. In general the composite boards include one or more high density layers and one or more low density layers. They may also optionally include one or more facers or one or more reinforcing layers such as reinforcing scrims. The positioning of the various layers and facers can advantageously be varied based upon the intended use or properties that are desired.

One embodiment of the composite construction board is shown in . A composite board includes high density layer low density layer positioned underneath high density layer and an optional facer . The positions of high density layer and low density layer may optionally be reversed. That is rather than the configuration of composite board shown in low density layer as shown in can instead be positioned above high density layer .

Furthermore additional facers may optionally be positioned between high density layer and low density layer and or optionally be positioned on the side of composite board opposite optional facer . For example as shown in composite board includes an optional facer positioned between high density layer and low density layer and another optional facer positioned on the side of composite board opposite optional facer . Furthermore composite board can also be configured to include an optional reinforcing layer positioned between two or more of the various layers. For example as shown in a fiberglass mat is positioned between two optional facers which are positioned between high density layer and low density layer .

Additionally composite board can be constructed of a plurality of alternating high density layers and low density layers. For example composite board may include four layers where each layer alternates between high density and low density layers. Furthermore composite board could be constructed of three alternating layers where a high density layer is sandwiched between two low density layers or where a low density layer is sandwiched between two high density layers. Either way like the other embodiments discussed above composite board includes at least one high density layer and at least one low density layer . Moreover these layers can interface with one another or facers can be provided therebetween.

As with the high density construction boards of the first embodiment high density layer of composite board may be characterized by having a density that is greater than 2.5 pounds per cubic foot 12 kg m in other embodiments greater than 3.0 pounds per cubic foot 14 kg m and still in other embodiments greater than 3.5 pounds per cubic foot 17 kg m on the other hand the density of high density layer may be less than 20 pounds per cubic foot 97.6 kg m in other embodiments less than 10 pounds per cubic foot 48.8 kg m and still in other embodiments less than 6 pounds per cubic foot 29.3 kg m . Low density layer can be characterized by having a foam density that is less than 2.5 pounds per cubic foot 12.2 kg m in other embodiments less than 2.0 pounds per cubic foot 9.76 kg m in other embodiments less than 1.9 pounds per cubic foot 9.28 kg m and still in other embodiments less than 1.8 pounds per cubic foot 8.79 kg m . In one or more embodiments these polyurethane or polyisocyanurate insulation layers may likewise be characterized by having a density that is greater than 1.50 pounds per cubic foot 7.32 kg m and optionally greater than 1.55 pounds per cubic foot 7.57 kg m .

In one or more embodiments high density layer and low density layer are cellular in nature. In other words these layers are characterized by an interconnected network of solid struts or plates that form the edges and faces of cells. In one or more embodiments the cellular material comprises polyisocyanurate or polyurethane.

When present the optional facers e.g. can be formed from a variety of materials. Exemplary facer materials include aluminum foil cellulosic fibers reinforced cellulosic fibers craft paper coated glass fiber mats uncoated glass fiber mats chopped glass and combinations thereof. Useful facer materials are known as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 774 071 6 355 701 RE 36674 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 044 604 and 5 891 563 which are incorporated herein by reference. The thickness of the facer material may vary for example it may be from about 0.010 to about 0.100 inches thick 0.0254 0.254 cm or in other embodiments from about 0.015 to about 0.050 inches thick 0.0381 0.127 cm . The facer materials can also include more robust or rigid materials such as fiber board perlite board or gypsum board. In one or more embodiments the facer is a 100 glass facer.

The thickness of the rigid facer can vary for example the thickness of the rigid facer can be from about 0.20 to about 1.50 inches 0.5 3.8 cm or in other embodiments from about 0.25 to about 1.00 inches 0.6 2.54 cm . When present the optional reinforcing layers can include a variety of materials. In one or more embodiments fiber scrims or mats can be employed. These mats and scrims may include woven and non woven constructions. The fibers may include fiberglass or synthetic materials such as polyethylene or nylon.

In one or more embodiments high density layer and low density layer comprise the same or similar material. As a result there is little interfacial tension between the layers which provides an advantageous strength. In one or more embodiments high density layer and low density layer are integral with one another as a result of the manufacture and process. In other words the composite board can be manufactured by forming low density layer on top of high density layer and the optional facer can thereafter be selectively applied to low density layer and or high density layer .

In one or more embodiments high density layer and low density layer can be prepared by employing techniques known in the art for the production of cellular polyurethane or polyisocyanurate construction boards. As noted above the methods are known in the art as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 117 375 6 044 604 5 891 563 5 573 092 U.S. Publication Nos. 2004 01099832003 0082365 2003 0153656 2003 0032351 and 2002 0013379 as well as U.S. Ser. Nos. 10 640 895 10 925 654 and Ser. No. 10 632 343 which are incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the high density cellular body is first formed using techniques described above. In one particular embodiment a facer is positioned above and below the high density layer. Following the manufacture of this high density board a low density layer is formed thereon i.e. the low density layer is formed on one of the facers positioned on the high density layer using techniques known in the art. In one particular embodiment a facer can then be positioned on top of the low density layer i.e. on the planar surface of the low density layer that is opposite to the high density layer . In one or more embodiments this manufacturing technique can occur within a continuous operation or production line.

In other embodiments a high density cellular body or layer can be formed with optional facers. In a second manufacturing step a low density layer or cellular body can be formed with optional facers. The high density layer with optional facers and low density layer with optional facers can be adhered together to form the composite structure. Optionally a reinforcement can be positioned therebetween. Conventional adhesives may be employed to adhere the boards to one another. In one or more embodiments the adhesive may include a one part or two part polyurethane or polyisocyanurate adhesive. In other embodiments a hot melt adhesive may be employed. Exemplary hot melt adhesives include polyolefin and polydiolefin based hot melt adhesives.

The composite boards can be sized to a variety of dimensions. In general composite boards are planar in nature and as shown in can be characterized by including a length a width and a height or thickness . Because the composite boards are advantageously employed in the construction industry they may advantageously be sized to a four foot width and eight foot length i.e. 4 8 other useful sizes may include 4 10 and 4 4 . As for the overall thickness of the composite board the respective thicknesses of the high density layers and low density layers can vary and therefore the overall thickness can vary. Likewise the thickness of the facer employed if any will likewise contribute to the overall thickness of the composite board. In any event the thickness of the composite boards of one or more embodiments can advantageously be from about 1.0 to about 6.0 inches 2.5 15 cm or in other embodiments from about 1.5 to about 5.0 inches 3.8 13 cm or in other embodiments from about 2.0 to about 4.5 inches 5.1 11 cm . In certain embodiments the thickness of the high density layer can vary from about 0.5 to about 2.0 inches 1.3 5 cm in other embodiments from about 0.5 to 1.0 inches 1.3 2.5 cm and still in other embodiments from about 0.50 to about 0.75 inches 1.3 1.9 cm . The low density layer in one or more embodiments can also vary from about 0.5 to about 4.0 inches 1.6 10 cm and in other embodiments from about 1.0 to about 4.0 inches 2.5 10 cm and still in other embodiments from about 2.0 to about 4.0 inches 5 10 cm .

In order to demonstrate the practice of the present invention the following examples have been prepared and tested. The examples should not however be viewed as limiting the scope of the invention. The claims will serve to define the invention.

The following formulation was used to make approximately 0.5 inch 1.57 cm thick high density boards on a commercial laminator.

In the wind uplift test at 16 fasteners per board 4 8 it failed 27 seconds in to the 120 psf 585.9 kg m in the first test and passed 120 psf 586 kg m in the second test. At 32 fasteners per board 4 8 in the wind uplift test the board achieved 24 seconds in to the 240 psf 1172 kg m .

Various modifications and alterations that do not depart from the scope and spirit of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art. This invention is not to be duly limited to the illustrative embodiments set forth herein.

