---

title: Load-aware compensation in light-emitting-diode backlight illumination systems
abstract: System(s) and method(s) are provided for power management in an electronic display via compensation of a power source of a light-emitting-diode (LED) backlighting system. A compensation feedback loop includes a load-aware controller that receives the bad condition from a dimming controller and supplies a control signal to the power source. An efficiency regulator functionally connected the backlight circuitry closes the compensation, feedback loop and provides an input signal to the load-aware controller. The dimming controller implements phase-shifted pulse-modulation dimming, which based on duty cycle can establish a dimming equilibrium with two load conditions. The load aware controller includes a set of compensation blocks arranged in parallel, with a single compensation block connected to the input signal and that provides the control signal. A selector component in the load aware controller determines a compensation block to be connected to the compensation feedback loop based on the received load condition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09064461&OS=09064461&RS=09064461
owner: Atmel Corporation
number: 09064461
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131111
---
The subject disclosure relates to illumination systems that include light emitting diode LED technology and more specifically to power management via compensation of a power source of an LED backlighting system the compensation based on load conditions of the LED backlighting system.

Backlights are used to illuminate liquid crystal displays LCDs . LCDs with backlights are used in small displays for mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs portable computers as well as in large displays for computer monitors and televisions. Often the light source for the backlight includes one or more cold cathode fluorescent lamps CCFLs . The light source for the backlight can also be an incandescent light bulb an electroluminescent panel ELP or one or more hot cathode fluorescent lamps HCFLs .

As costs of light emitting diodes LEDs are reduced and their quality is improved the display industry is enthusiastically pursuing the use of light emitting diodes LEDs as the light source in backlight display technology because CCFLs have many shortcomings For instance CCFLs do not easily ignite in cold temperatures they require adequate idle time to ignite and they require delicate handling. In addition LEDs have response times substantially faster than CCFLs. Moreover the color gamut afforded by LEDs is wider than other light sources employed for backlighting and thus provide more vivid color. Furthermore LEDs generally have a higher ratio of light generated to power consumed than other backlight sources. Accordingly displays with LED backlights can consume less power than other displays which renders LED based displays more sustainable. LED backlighting has traditionally been used in small inexpensive LCD panels. However LED backlighting is becoming more common in large displays such as those installed in computers and television sets. In large LCD displays several LEDs are generally required to provide adequate backlight for the LCD panel based on specifics of the display the number of LEDs can reach several hundreds.

In LCD displays that utilize a substantive number of LEDs for backlighting power management is typically accomplished through pulse width modulation PWM of power applied to the LEDs also commonly referred to PWM dimming. Conventional LCD displays that exploit PWM dimming in installed LED based backlighting systems generally are unable to implement phase shifted PWM dimming which typically causes electromagnetic interference in various portions of the LED based backlighting system. In addition conventional LCD displays that can implement phase shifted PWM dimming generally present perceived quality of operation issues for instance audible noise arising from response of one or more electronic elements in the LCD display to variations in operation conditions of the LED based backlighting system due to PWM dimming. Accordingly power efficiency of LED based backlighting systems can be improved.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects thereof. This summary is not an extensive overview of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate any scope. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the subject disclosure provide system s and method s for power management in an electronic display via compensation of a power source of a LED based backlighting system based on load conditions. The LED based backlighting system includes backlight circuitry comprising a set of LED arrays configured in strings of one or more LEDs. A compensation feedback loop includes a load aware controller that acquires receives retrieves etc. the load condition e.g. a load metric or load metric value from a dimming controller and supplies a control signal to a power source. An efficiency regulator component functionally connected to the backlight circuitry completes the feedback loop or feedback circuit and provides an input signal to the load aware controller. The dimming controller implements phase shifted PWM dimming which based at least on the duty cycle of the PWM dimming profile can establish a dimming equilibrium state with at least two load conditions. The load aware controller can include at least two compensation blocks arranged or connected in parallel with a single compensation block connected to the input signal and that provides the control signal as output. Based on the received load condition a selector component in the load aware controller determines a compensation block to be connected to the compensation feedback loop the determination can be based on historical values of load condition. Architecture of load aware controller is general and extensible in particular though not exclusively in digital implementation of compensation block s for which a digital filter with at least one pole can be configured as a result of equilibrating operation of the LED based backlighting system for a new load condition.

When compared to conventional power management systems in LED based backlighting systems the system s and method s of the subject disclosure provide at least the following advantages i enable reduction of a voltage applied to backlight circuitry while ensuring that current supplied to the a set of LEDs is regulated and ii enable PWM dimming without generation of electromagnetic interference or audible noises caused by form fluctuation in capacitive element s in LED based backlighting systems.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It may be evident however that the various embodiments of the subject disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present disclosure.

As employed in this specification and annexed drawings the terms component system block interface controller and the like are intended to include a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. One or more of such entities are also referred to as functional elements. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system block interface controller and the like.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of LED strings includes one or more LED strings a set of parameters includes one or more parameters etc.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components blocks modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

In example backlighting system in an aspect of the subject disclosure compensation feedback loop for V includes load aware controller which acquires receives retrieves etc. a load metric and supplies control signal V based at least on one or more of the load metric or V. The compensation comp. feedback loop or circuit is closed through efficiency regulator component also referred to as efficiency regulator via an input signal V e.g. an offset voltage supplied to load aware controller . In an aspect in response to the load variations in backlight circuitry efficiency regulator generates the input signal V e.g. an offset voltage wherein the offset is valued with respect to a current or nearly current value of V that energizes or drives backlight circuitry . Magnitude of V results from the subtraction of V from V namely V V V. The magnitude of V is established by efficiency regulator as described hereinafter. As illustrated an adder node enables the subtraction operation and provides V to load aware controller to close the compensation or regulation feedback loop.

In example backlighting system load aware controller can receive or retrieve load from dimming controller which can implement dimming of backlight circuitry through pulse width modulation PWM of power supplied thereto. In an aspect PWM dimming is implemented while peak current is maintained constant to mitigate or prevent white point shift. Load can be time dependent and can depend at least in part on PWM dimming implementation as described hereinafter. Load can be represented by a load metric or load metric value and thus is also referred to herein as load metric . As described herein and in contrast to conventional backlighting systems load aware regulation of V mitigates variations thereof with the ensuing avoidance of audible noises that can originate from form fluctuation of capacitive element s capacitor in the output stage of power or voltage supply to backlight circuitry

Topology of LEDs in backlight circuitry also can determine at least in part aspects of PWM dimming implementation. In one or more embodiments such as example embodiment presented in backlight circuitry comprises a set of N strings of light emitting diodes LEDs distributed throughout an electronic display area not shown here N is a natural number equal to or greater than unity. One or more LED strings in a set of LED strings can be controlled by a constant current driver circuit or driver which can apply voltage or supply current. As illustrated LED strings are connected in parallel and each string includes a driver which is connected in series with the string in various operational scenarios driver connects its string to an electrical ground. In the set of strings one or more strings of LEDs include either red R blue B or green G LEDs. Each string with 1 2 . . . N in the set of N strings of LEDs is illustrated as a linear chain including one or more LEDs connected in series by wires traces or other connecting elements. While in example embodiment the linear chain of LEDs is arranged vertically other arrangements of strings with LEDs in each string discretely scattered across the electronic display area are also possible. Moreover LED strings can be mutually parallel or can be deployed in other relative orientations. To implement PWM dimming dimming controller is functionally coupled to drivers and selectively turns on and off each LED string according to a time waveform or profile specific to each LED string . In an aspect load can be assessed as the number of active LEDs multiplied by the current circulating through the active strings in one or more embodiments dimming controller includes a load assessment component not shown that assesses the load .

In particular though not exclusively PWM dimming in example backlighting system can be phase shifted PWM dimming wherein each LED string is turned on and off periodically according to a single predetermined frequency and a single predetermined duty cycle D but out of phase relative to disparate strings with a phase shift equal to M where M is a finite integer mod N index that characterizes separation amongst strings M 1 nearest neighbor strings M 2 second nearest neighbor strings and so forth. A positive value of M indicates an LED string power onset is delayed with respect to its neighbor whereas a negative value of M indicates the LED string power onset is advanced with respect to its neighbor. In one or more embodiments dimming controller can include a timing signal generator not shown that provides clock signals that determine the PWM dimming waveform and thus the frequency . In addition dimming controller can include a phase signal generator component not shown which produces one or more values of phase one or more phase delay register s that can be part of a memory within the dimming controller or functionally coupled thereto.

Dimming controller can include a processor that provides at least part of its functionality or the functionality of one or more components therein such as timing signal generator not shown or phase signal generator component not shown . In an aspect the processor can execute one or more sets of code instructions retained in the memory that can reside within dimming controller or that can be functionally coupled thereto. In certain embodiments dimming controller also can include one or more I O interfaces. In additional or alternative embodiments dimming controller also can be implemented as a set of computer executable code instructions retained in a memory and executed by one or more processors.

Diagram in illustrates phase shifted PWM dimming for N 7 strings of LEDs through a time span of four PWM frames each of which spans an interval 1 . Each string is turned on and off in accordance with a PWM waveform or time sequence. Illustrated duty cycle is D 5 8 and 1 8 . In an aspect of phase shifted PWM dimming the number of active strings of LEDs toggles between the two integers that are nearest to the average number of active LED strings. For a PWM duty cycle D the number of active strings can adopt at most two possible values floor DN and ceil DN here floor x evaluates to the largest integer less than or equal to the argument x and ceil x is the smallest integer greater than or equal to x wherein x is a real number. For a duty cycle D that is commensurate with the number N of LED strings in the set of strings of LEDs e.g. D p N with p a positive integer the foregoing values of active strings become degenerate e.g. equal since dimming controller can drive the backlight circuitry embodied in the set of strings into an equilibrium condition in which an integer number of strings e.g. p is active at all times. Diagram presents the number of active strings Nas a function of time for the illustrated PWM waveforms or time sequences open circles in diagram represent discrete values obtained for NA for a time discretization in 1 8 intervals. As indicated supra Nfluctuates from 4 floor 35 8 to 5 ceil 35 8 which are different since D 5 8 is not commensurate with N 7 in alternative terms dimming controller can only achieve an equilibrium condition in which the backlight circuitry embodied in the set of strings fluctuates between operation in 4 active strings of LEDs and 5 active strings of LEDs.

It should be appreciated that phase shifted PWM dimming has advantages over PWM dimming in the absence of phase shift e.g. 0. In the latter mode of power dimming all LED strings are simultaneously turned on and turned off such PWM dimming is termed herein simultaneous PWM. In such scenario at a time the LED strings are on the DC DC converter is on and drains full power from the system power bus to supply the voltage V to the group of LEDs that are part of the set of strings . Simultaneous PWM can cause electromagnetic interference EMI to other parts of a backlighting system particularly but not exclusively blocks on the system power bus not shown because of the periodic draining of power effected at the simultaneous PWM frequency . Harmonic frequency ies of also can cause EMI. In contrast to simultaneous PWM phase shifted PWM dimming leads to the DC DC converter to drain power from the system power bus continuously or substantially continuously extracting an average power accordingly phase shifted PWM dimming mitigates generation of EMI from the backlighting system onto the system power bus not shown .

Efficiency regulator can exploit topology of LEDs in backlight circuitry to determine V. In one or more embodiments such as example embodiment efficiency regulator can monitor voltage of one or more strings and configure the reference voltage V to a value that is low and when applied to compensate V the compensated value of V maintains voltages of the strings above a minimum voltage that ensures operation constant current mode of respective constant current driver circuits . As illustrated in which presents an example embodiment of driver 1 J N for string efficiency regulator can probe string voltage Vor gate voltage Vof the transistor to establish if driver operates in accordance with manufacturer specification for forward bias voltage V V Vof string of LEDs. In an aspect of the subject innovation dimming controller turns on and off driver in accordance with a PWM waveform J which can be a phase shifted waveform see e.g. . It should be appreciated that Vis the drain voltage of transistor which in the series connection of LEDs in string equals the sum of the forward bias voltage of each LED in string . It should be appreciated that due to process and temperature variation the forward voltage of each string is different thus Vis different for each string. Various detailed aspects of operation and related advantages of efficiency regulator are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 652 736 to instant assignee and entitled System and Method for Controlling a Multi String Light Emitting Diode Backlighting System for an Electronic Display and filed on Jan. 12 2007 the entirety of the disclosure of the above referenced patent application is incorporated herein by reference.

The set of compensation blocks can include any combination of analog implemented compensation blocks and digital implemented compensation blocks e.g. T compensation blocks can be analog and Q T can be digital with 0 T Q. In a digital implementation of a compensation block that is disconnected the input signal V subsequent to analog to digital AD conversion can be forced to adopt a value of zero to maintain the state of the compensation block and thus the compensation feedback loop for the corresponding load . Processor s can implement the AD conversion and digital to analog DA conversion that can be necessary to sample input signal V and to provide an analog output control signal value V. displays a sketch of an example spectral gain that can be exploited for digital implementation at least one of compensation blocks . The example spectral gain represents a 1 pole 1 zero gain. It should be appreciated that other combination of r poles and S zeroes with R and S natural numbers greater than or equal to unity can be employed to implement a compensation block e.g. . Spectral gain response for one or more compensation blocks can be retained in memory as part of register s . For specific spectral gain models such as a set of parameters that define frequency gain slope at frequencies below and saturation gain Hcan be retained in at least one of register s . Digitally implemented compensation blocks can be added to the set of compensation blocks in response to previously unrecorded changes in load metric for example if forward voltage specifications of one or more LEDs in one or more strings change as a result of LED degradation or changes in operational environment e.g. temperature in region s of an electronic display not shown that contains backlight circuitry a new load metric can be established. If the new load is sufficiently different e.g. within a predetermined configurable tolerance from a recorded load metric value processors can establish a new set of parameters for an R pole S zero filter or a new spectral gain for a new filter record in registers the new set of parameters or the new spectral gain and implement a new compensation block e.g. based at least in part on the newly recorded magnitudes.

In an analog implementation of a compensation block that is disconnected an input pin can remain in open circuit. In an embodiment the compensation block in the analog implementation can be embodied in a resistor inductor capacitor RLC circuit which can retain a capacity for a specific load subsequent to disconnection in view of changes in load.

Based on received load selector component can connect one of the compensation blocks to input signal V via a switch component and to an output connector a system bus a wire line a trace a wireless interface etc. via switch . Thus the output of the connected compensation block e.g. provides the output signal V ofload aware controller . In addition based on the received load or a change thereof selector component can disconnect a first compensation block e.g. currently connected and connect a second compensation e.g. block that was disconnected at a time of or prior to reception of the load thus the first compensation block becomes deactivated whereas the second compensation block becomes active. In an aspect selector component can energize or enable at least one pin in switch to implement a connection of input signal V and at least one pin in switch to implement connection of a compensation block e.g. . In another aspect selector component can de energize or disable at least one pin in switch to disconnect a compensation block e.g. and at least one pin in switch to disconnect input signal V from the compensation block e.g. that is disconnected.

It is noted that the number of compensation blocks and the switching e.g. the connection and disconnection of compensation block s effected by selector component is designed and implemented in a manner such that noise introduced in backlighting system or circuitry therein is smaller than noise associated with variation of load conditions associated with PWM dimming. In an aspect in certain embodiments load aware controller can include an integrity component not shown that monitors switching noise e.g. through various measurements and automatically or autonomously corrects a switching frequency to ensure adequate noise level e.g. below a predetermined threshold due to the switching effected by selector component .

In certain embodiments in which backlighting system includes LEDs that have matched or substantially matched current ratings and forward voltage ratings load aware controller can be implemented with two compensation blocks e.g. Q 2 since in equilibrium the backlight circuitry can fluctuate amongst two values of load L I floor DN and L I ceil DN where Iis the matched current loads Land Lare measured in units of current. A load assessment component not shown within dimming controller can determine Land Land supply such load signal value or load metrics to load aware controller as part of load .

In addition or in the alternative in one or more embodiments in which Q 2 selector component can assess a change in load conditions based on received load the assessment can be based on comparison of a first load metric and a second load metric. Based on the assessment outcome selector component can identify a compensation block in the set of compensation blocks to connect as part of the compensation feedback loop in response to the outcome of the assessment. It is noted that a dedicated assessment component not shown can be included in load aware controller to perform the foregoing assessment. The various load conditions and associated load metric can originate from LEDs in disparate strings not being rating matched luminosity or brightness changes throughout operation of an electronic display that include backlight circuitry display enters power save mode end user adjusts brightness to a new value etc. temperature changes such as those that may occur in the electronic display in operation at non uniform temperatures or the like. In the one or more embodiments in which a plurality of strings of LEDs have different string current dimming controller can retrieve receive or otherwise acquire a set of currents Ifor a set of respective strings of LEDs and determine a group of two or more load signals or load metrics in equilibrium during phase shifted PWM dimming. In an aspect the load assessment component not shown in dimming controller can monitor current in one or more drivers and determine the group of load signal values in the equilibrium state. The group of load metrics is supplied as part of load to load aware controller which can swritch through a group of compensation blocks wherein G a natural number is the cardinality of the group of two or more load signal values in the equilibrium state.

To implement the various features or aspects described supra load aware controller is functionally coupled to proeessor s . In addition input output I O components not shown can enable configuration of various registers and other values utilized in operation of load aware controller . In an aspect processor s can be configured to provide or can provide at least in part the described functionality of load aware controller or one or more functional elements e.g. components block therein. In an aspect to provide such functionality processor s can exploit bus to exchange data or any other information amongst functional elements e.g. component s block s within load aware controller and memory or elements therein such as register s . Bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process. The exchanged information can include at least one of code instructions code structure s data structures or the like.

Processor s also can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory to implement or provide at least part of the described functionality of load aware controller. Such code instructions can include program modules or software or firmware applications that implement specific tasks which can be accomplished through one or more of the methods described in the subject specification and that are associated at least in part with functionality or operation of example backlighting system . In one or more alternative or additional embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst one or more functional elements components blocks etc. of load aware controller . Further in some embodiments digitally implemented compensation blocks in the set of compensation blocks can be implemented as software or firmware and can reside within memory as one or more sets of code instructions that when executed by processor s implement such functional elements components blocks etc. and described functionality thereof.

In one or more embodiments load aware controller can be either a general microcomputer or a special purpose microcomputer. Load aware controller and other component s or functional element s can be implemented on a single integrated circuit IC chip or on multiple IC chips. Such single IC chip also can include other functional elements such as dimming controller . In addition through provision of code instructions to memory load aware controller can be programmable. In the alternative load aware controller can be non programmable and operate in accordance with aspects herein as established at manufacturing time. In embodiments in which load aware controller is non programmable a tradeoff between performance of compensation feedback loop and complexity of the load aware controller can be achieved in which less complexity and related costs outweighs possible increased variations in output voltage as a result of new load conditions becoming present in backlight circuitry . In view of the foregoing it is readily appreciated that load aware controller can be implemented in hardware software or firmware.

Simulation results presented in charts and thus convey that in load aware compensation V can be set to lower values than in conventional compensation in view of reduced variation in V in response to load variation. Thus load aware compensation as described herein is more energy efficient.

When compared to conventional power management systems in LED based backlighting systems at least one advantage of the load aware controller and related compensation feedback circuit described herein is that power efficiency of a LED based backlighting system e.g. can be implemented through PWM dimming with reduced variation of output voltage applied to backlight circuitry in the LED based backlighting system in response presence of time dependent load condition s of the backlight circuitry. Reduced variation of the output voltage avoids introducing audible noises arising from electronic components e.g. capacitor of the backlighting system . It should be appreciated that such avoidance does not entail pushing the frequency of the PWM dimming waveform to an inaudible frequency which typically limits the PWM dimming efficiency in view of a lower bound s on response of drivers or current sinks in the backlight circuitry.

In view of the example system s described above example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowchart in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. Eor example one or more example methods disclosed herein can alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methodologies. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described example method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination with each other to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

Method s disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such method s to computers or chipsets e.g. integrated semiconductor based circuits with processing capability ies for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors that enact method s described herein can be employed to execute code instructions retained in a memory or any computer or machine readable storage medium to implement method s described herein the code instructions when executed by the one or more processor implement or carry out the various acts in the method s described herein. The code instructions provide a computer or machine executable framework to enact the method s described herein.

Supplying the control signal can be implemented in various modalities as illustrated in which display respectively flowcharts of example methods and for supplying a control signal value that can be employed to compensate a power source of an LED based backlighting illumination system according to aspects of the subject disclosure. With respect to example method at act a first compensation block in a compensation feedback loop in a backlighting system is disconnected. As described supra a selector component e.g. that is part of the load aware controller e.g. that enacts example method can implement the subject act. Disconnecting the first compensation block can include forcing an offset or error signal to zero to maintain the state of the compensation feedback loop for utilization in instances in which a load metric leads to connecting the first compensation block subsequent to the disconnecting it through act . At act a second compensation block in the compensation feedback loop in the backlighting system is connected based at least on a load metric. The selector component e.g. can implement the subject act.

With respect to example method at act it is determined if a first load metric is different from a second load metric. The first load metric can be acquired according to act whereas the second load metric can be a historical value or set of historical values e.g. a time sequence previously acquired. If the determining indicates the first load metric and the second load metrics are different flow is directed to act conversely if the determining establishes that the first load metric and the second load metric are not different then act is re enacted. Act can be re enacted after new load metric s are acquired. At act a first compensation block for connecting to a compensation feedback loop in a backlighting system e.g. is selected. In an aspect the selecting can be based on an relationship e.g. a one to one association amongst the first compensation block and the first load metric for example during previous operation of backlighting system the first compensation block was selected for closing the compensation feedback loop for a load metric value equal or substantially equal e.g. within a predetermined numerical tolerance to the first load metric. At act a second compensation block that closes the compensation feedback loop in the backlighting system is disconnected. Disconnecting the second compensation block can include forcing an offset or error signal to zero to maintain the state of the compensation feedback loop for utilization in instances in which a load metric leads to connecting the second compensation block subsequent to the disconnecting it through act . At act the first compensation block is connected to the compensation feedback loop in the backlighting system. The connecting can include energizing a switch or switch component for outputting a control signal e.g. V to a power source as described supra.

As employed herein the term relative to means that a value A established relative to a value B signifies that A is a function of the value B. The functional relationship between A and B can be established mathematically or by reference to a theoretical or empirical relationship. As used herein the term coupled means directly or indirectly connected in series or in parallel by wires traces or other connecting elements including wireless interfaces. Coupled elements may receive signals from each other.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage and substantially any term s that convey other information storage component s relevant to operation and functionality of a functional element or component described herein refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. The memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of further illustration and not limitation RAM can be available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to or configured to perform one or more of the steps or acts described above.

Further the steps or acts of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two such as in a firmware module. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in display equipment. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components e.g. chipsets in display equipment. Additionally in some aspects the steps or acts of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes or instructions on a machine readable medium or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium. Computer readable media machine readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above also are included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. In addition although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Moreover all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

