---

title: System and methods for mapping price and location of tickets in an event venue
abstract: A system and methods for mapping price and location of tickets in an event venue are described. An interactive event venue seat map is provided by a network-based system that implements an online marketplace for tickets for upcoming events. The interactive event venue seat map enables sellers to view pricing information and transaction information for both sold and current event listings for any section or zone in an event venue. The interactive event venue seat map allows sellers to browse and click on sections to see sold and listed data for any section and zone in the event venue and to compare a proposed sale price to available pricing information of sold and current event listings in comparable sections. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09530108&OS=09530108&RS=09530108
owner: STUBHUB, INC.
number: 09530108
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130226
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 221 560 filed Aug. 30 2011 and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 544 615 filed on Aug. 20 2009 which has a U.S. Pat. No. 8 024 234 which is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 552 782 filed Oct. 25 2006 which has a U.S. Pat. No. 7 917 398 which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Computer systems and networks have facilitated the tasks of buying selling and transferring goods. For example global computer networks such as the Internet have allowed purchasers to relatively quickly and efficiently seek and purchase goods online. Similarly global computer networks provide an efficient and cost effective medium for sellers to advertise offer provide and sell their goods. Electronic commerce companies provide buyers and sellers with online services and the infrastructure to accept orders of goods from remote purchasers to perform the financial transactions necessary to confirm and complete the sale of goods to ship or distribute the goods to remote purchasers and to perform other related logistics. For these reasons sellers actively use the Internet to offer sell and distribute a wide variety of goods to take advantage of the many benefits provided by the Internet and electronic commerce.

One example of a market for goods within the realm of electronic commerce is the online ticket market. StubHub provides a network based system which implements an online ticket marketplace for buyers and sellers of tickets for live events such as sports concerts theater and other entertainment events. The StubHub online ticket marketplace enables legitimate convenient reliable and secure transactions at fair market value and provides ticket fulfillment services even for sold out events. Accordingly the StubHub online ticket marketplace provides benefits for fans who wish to buy sell or otherwise transfer tickets as well as for teams artists and venues.

A system and methods for mapping price and location of tickets in an event venue are described. In general an interactive event venue seat map is provided by a network based system to make ticket transactions more efficient and cost effective for sellers and buyers in an online marketplace for tickets for upcoming events. The listing process for sellers includes a price mapping feature that introduces sold ticket data in a uniformly displayed interactive event venue seat map for enabling sellers to view both sold and current listing data for any section or zone in an event venue. The listing process for sellers also provides a lookahead section filter when the seller enters section information for an event with an interactive event venue seat map. As the seller types in ticket information for a listing the section field is read as the seller types and relevant sections are suggested for the seller to choose. This not only makes typing for the seller easier but also reduces the number of listings that go unmapped and therefore unsold.

The interactive event venue seat map allows sellers to browse and click on sections to see sold and listed data for any section in the event venue. The interactive event venue seat map also provides a zone view that allows sellers to click on any zone in the legend to see all sold and listed data for that zone. The interactive event venue seat map further includes a compare feature for providing sellers with a quick visual indication whether a proposed sale price is within a sale price range determined from sold and current listing data of other similar listings. For example the interactive event venue seat map compares and shows sections where the average sold price is close to the price that the seller is considering which helps the seller pinpoint sections to look at in more detail.

Sellers with active event listings also can access the interactive event venue seat map at any time via their my active ticket listings page in their accounts. A compare prices icon is presented for each active event listing that when clicked displays an interactive event venue seat map for that listing to allow the seller to keep abreast of pricing trends for their event and make necessary pricing adjustments as needed.

Sellers with active event listings also may receive transactional e mail messages that complement and drive sellers to the interactive event venue seat map. The transactional e mail messages inform sellers that their tickets are still listed and that the event date is approaching and also provide a link to the online ticket marketplace and or an interactive event venue seat map for the event to allow sellers to view the most recent pricing data.

The interactive event venue seat map provides sellers with the opportunity to view pricing details to allow for a more accurate picture of the current market value of their tickets. Displaying sold ticket prices serves as a highly valuable gauge for sellers arming them with insight on the actual prices fans have been willing to pay for specific locations. Accordingly sellers are better able to price their tickets based on the truest market value resulting in a quicker sale. The interactive event venue seat map helps both the occasional seller who wants to make a quick pricing decision as well as the more frequent seller who wants to research trends and listing data to ensure their tickets are listed with a price that makes them likely to be purchased.

By providing sellers with sold and current listing data in an interactive event venue seat map listings of more tickets to a greater number of events are created at the most competitive and attractive prices possible. Buyers benefit from having a greater selection of tickets priced at a true market value. As such marketplace efficiencies are improved with respect to selling and buying processes by more efficiently connecting buyers and sellers making it easier and more convenient for fans to exchange tickets to events nationwide. Various embodiments are described and claimed.

The foregoing aspects and many of the attendant advantages of various embodiments will become more readily appreciated and better understood by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

Various embodiments are described for mapping price and location of tickets in an event venue. Numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Reference throughout the specification to various embodiments some embodiments one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in various embodiments in some embodiments in one embodiment or in an embodiment in places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Various elements of the communications system may be implemented utilizing one or more computing devices having computing and or communications capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary computing devices may include without limitation a mobile device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile computing device a communications device a telephone a mobile telephone a cellular telephone a smart phone a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a work station a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a handheld computer a mini computer a network appliance a web appliance a server a server computer a server array a server farm an Internet server a web server a network server a main frame computer a supercomputer a distributed computing system multiprocessor system processor based systems a control system consumer electronic equipment a media device a gaming device a television a digital television a set top box STB wireless access point base station subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller a network access device a telephone network device a mobile telephone network device a VoIP network device a radio network device a television network device a satellite network device a router a hub a gateway a bridge a switch a machine or combination thereof.

The computing devices utilized by the communications system may be implemented by various hardware and or software components in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary hardware components may include processing devices such as central processing unit CPU and or other processors microprocessors application processors radio processors baseband processors digital signal processors DSP circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD a field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets memory such as volatile and or non volatile memory a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD or cathode ray tube CRT input devices such a keyboard mouse stylus touch pad and or touch screen networking devices such as ports network interface cards NICs transmitters receivers transceivers and or antennas as well as other components. Exemplary software components may include computer programs applications application programs system programs operating system OS software middleware firmware a software interface a programmatic interface an application program interfaces API a network interface a web interface a messaging interface modules instruction sets routines subroutines functions calls computing code or combination thereof.

Various elements of the communications system may support wired and or wireless communications functionality in accordance with the described embodiments. For example some computing devices may be arranged to communicate information over one or more types of communication links such as a wire cable bus printed circuit board PCB backplane switch fabric semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optic connection Ethernet connection peer to peer P2P connection a data channel a radio channel a satellite channel a television channel a broadcast channel an infrared IR channel a radio frequency RF channel a portion of the RF spectrum one or more licensed or license free frequency bands and so forth.

Various elements of the communications system may support communication over one or more types of networks in accordance with the described embodiments. For example some computing devices and networks may support communications over a Wide Area Network WAN the Internet a telephone network e.g. analog digital POTS PSTN ISDN xDSL a mobile telephone network e.g. CDMA GSM NDAC TDMA E TDMA NAMPS WCDMA CDMA 2000 UMTS 3G 4G a radio network a television network a cable network an optical network e.g. PON a satellite network e.g. VSAT a packet switched network a circuit switched network a public network a private network and or other wired or wireless communications network configured to carry data. Computing devices and networks also may support wireless wide area network WWAN communications services including Internet access such as EV DO EV DV CDMA 1 RTT GSM GPRS EDGE HSDPA HSUPA and others.

Computing devices and networks may support wireless local area network WLAN and or wireless metropolitan area network WMAN data communications functionality in accordance with Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standards protocols and variants such as IEEE 802.11 WiFi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20x Mobile Fi and others. Computing devices and networks also may support short range communication such as a wireless personal area network WPAN communication Bluetooth data communication infrared IR communication near field communication electro magnetic induction EMI communication passive or active RFID communication micro impulse radar MIR ultra wide band UWB communication automatic identification and data capture AIDC communication and others.

Further aspects and advantages of various embodiments will become more readily appreciated and better understood by the following description of the elements of the communications system illustrated in . Although certain exemplary embodiments and implementations may be illustrated and described as comprising a particular combination of elements and performing a particular set of operations it is to be understood that the principles and techniques discussed herein are not limited to such examples.

In the embodiment shown in the communications system includes among other elements a client which may comprise or employ one or more client devices such as a mobile computing device a PC and or any other computing device having computing and or communications capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. The client devices generally may provide one or more client programs such as system programs and application programs to perform various computing and or communications operations. Exemplary system programs may include without limitation an operating system e.g. MICROSOFT OS UNIX OS LINUX OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and others device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary application programs may include without limitation a web browser application messaging applications e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS telephone voicemail VoIP video messaging contacts application calendar application electronic document application database application media application e.g. music video television location based services LBS application e.g. GPS mapping directions point of interest locator and so forth. In some usage scenarios one or more of the client programs may display various graphical user interfaces GUIs to present information to and or receive information from one or more of the client devices .

As shown the client is communicatively coupled via one or more networks to a network based system . The network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to allow the client to establish one or more communications sessions with the network based system using various computing devices and or client programs . Accordingly a communications session between the client and the network based system may involve the unidirectional and or bidirectional exchange of information and may occur over one or more types of networks depending on the mode of communication. While the embodiment of illustrates the communications system deployed in a client server operating environment it is to be understood that other suitable operating environments and or architectures may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

Data and or voice communications between the client and the network based system may be sent and received over one or more networks such as the Internet a WAN a WWAN a WLAN a mobile telephone network a landline telephone network a VoIP network as well as other suitable networks. For example the client may communicate with the network based system over the Internet or other suitable WAN by sending and or receiving information via interaction with a web site e mail IM session and or video messaging session. The client also may communicate with the network based system via a telephone call to a customer service agent and or interactive voice response IVR system made over a mobile telephone network a landline network and or a VoIP network. In wireless implementations the client may communicate with the network based system over the Internet via a WLAN or mobile telephone network that supports WWAN communications services. The client also may communicate over a mobile telephone network via SMS and or MMS messaging. It is to be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this regard.

In various usage scenarios communication sessions and or messaging between the client and the network based system may involve multiple modes of communication and or multiple networks. In some cases for example the client may initiate communication with the network based system by interacting with a web site. In response the network based system may communicate with the client in a variety of ways such as via the web site e mail IM SMS MMS and or a telephone call from a customer service agent and or IVR system. The communication from the network based system may comprise a message e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS containing relevant static or dynamic content an embedded hyperlinked URL for directing the client to a web site and or a hyperlinked telephone number for allowing the client to click and place a telephone call to an agent e.g. customer service agent and or IVR system of the network based system .

When communicating with the network based system the client may employ one or more client devices and or client programs . In various implementations the client devices and or client programs may host or provide one or more interfaces for communicating with the network based system . Exemplary interfaces may include a web interface an API interface a messaging interface and or other suitable communication interface in accordance with the described embodiments. The client programs for communicating with the network based system may comprise for example pre installed authored downloaded and or web based computer programs.

The client programs provided by one or more of the client devices e.g. mobile computing device and or PC may include a web client. The web client may comprise for example a desktop and or mobile e.g. WAP web browser e.g. Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Safari Opera Netscape Navigator etc. capable of rendering web pages e.g. HTML documents and supporting various browser based web technologies and programming languages such as HTML XHTML CSS Document Object Model DOM XML XSLT XMLHttpRequestObject JavaScript ECMAScript Jscript Ajax Flash Silverlight Visual Basic VB VB Scripting Edition VBScript PHP ASP Java Shockwave Python Perl C .net and or others.

In various usage scenarios the client may use a web client to provide an interface e.g. HTTP interface for navigating to a web site associated with the network based system and for requesting and receiving web page data from the network based system . For example the client may use the web client to navigate to a web site associated with the network based system by entering a URL into a web browser address bar and or by clicking on a hyperlinked URL delivered to the client via a web page web based application e mail IM SMS MMS and or other delivery mechanism.

In one or more embodiments the web client may comprise or be implemented as a web browser toolbar for communicating with the network based system . In such embodiments the web browser toolbar may include for example a button e.g. dedicated customized add on and or a hyperlinked URL for navigating to a web site associated with the network based system . The web browser toolbar also may implement enhanced features such as a search engine interface e.g. text entry box input fields checkboxes clickable hyperlinks and or one or more pull down menus for accessing the network based system sending information e.g. search query keywords user preferences menu selections to the network based system and or receiving information e.g. search results relevant static or dynamic content from the network based system .

In one or more embodiments the web client may comprise or be implemented as a widget such as a desktop or mobile widget for communicating with the network based system . In such embodiments the desktop or mobile widget may comprise web based code an interpreter a virtual machine and or an API implementation to request receive present and or update content hosted by the network based system . The desktop or mobile widget may comprise for example a client side web application displayed on the desktop or phone top of one or more of the client devices implemented using various web technologies and programming languages. In various implementations the desktop or mobile widget may be supported by a host runtime environment such as a web browser or suitable rendering engine and or may be installed and run as a stand alone application outside of a web browser.

In various embodiments the network based system may provide users with one or more client side web applications as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 262 468 titled System and Methods for Providing Location Based Upcoming Event Information Using a Client Side Web Application Implemented on a Client Device which was filed on Nov. 31 2008 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments once downloaded and installed on a client device e.g. PC or mobile device of the user the client side web application may be configured to provide upcoming event information based upon the location of the user.

As shown in the communications system includes among other elements a third party which may comprise or employ a third party server hosting a third party application . In various implementations the third party server and or third party application may host a web site associated with or employed by a third party such as an affiliate partner or other third party entity or user in accordance with the described embodiments. It can be appreciated that in some implementations the third party may provide the third party application for promoting enhancing complementing supplementing and or substituting for one more services provided by the network based system . For example the third party server and or third party application may enable the network based system to provide the client with additional services and or information such as additional ticket inventory.

In some usage scenarios one or more of the client programs may be used to access the network based system via the third party . For example the client may use a web client to access and or receive content from the network based system after initially communicating with a third party web site. The web site of the third party e.g. affiliate partner may comprise for example a hyperlinked advertisement a web widget and or an API implementation comprising web based code within a web page to present static or dynamic content hosted by the network based system and or to provide programmatic access to the network based system .

It can be appreciated that the hyperlinked advertisement web widget and or API implementation for communicating with the network based system may be hosted by various third party web sites such as an affiliate web site a partner web site an online marketplace web site an entertainment web site a sports web site a media web site a search engine web site a social networking web site a blog and or any other corporate or personal web site or web page in accordance with the described embodiments. In some cases the third party may be directly or indirectly compensated for directing traffic from the third party web site to the web site of the network based system and or in the event that an electronic commerce transaction results after a user is directed from the third party web sites to the web site of the network based system .

In various embodiments the web client and or the network based system may provide the user with the ability to receive and aggregate content and or online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services of the network based system and other third party services eBay services Kijiji services PayPal services etc. . For example the web client may display location based upcoming event information that includes event listings published by sellers via the online marketplace services of the network based system as well as event listings published by sellers via one or more third party online marketplace services e.g. eBay services Kijiji services . In such embodiments the client side web application may display an aggregate of ticket inventory available from multiple online marketplaces providing the user with multiple purchasing options.

The client programs executed by one or more of the client devices may include a programmatic client for accessing and communicating with the network based system . Along with performing a certain set of functions the programmatic client may include for example an implementation of an API provided by the network based system for enabling access to and or communication with various elements e.g. servers databases of the network based system . In various embodiments the API implementation may comprise executable code in accordance with an SDK provided by the network based system .

In some usage scenarios the programmatic client may be implemented as a stand alone or web based database point of sale PUS and or inventory management application for managing a large volume of available inventory and communicating with the network based system . The programmatic client may be employed for example by high volume sellers to author update and manage a large number of inventory listings. In some cases a high volume seller may use the programmatic client to perform batch mode communication with the network based system . The batch mode communication from the high volume seller may comprise data for numerous inventory items e.g. hundreds thousands for publication by the network based system . The programmatic client also may be used to communicate with the network based systems in real time. For example communications from the high volume seller may comprise real time inventory updates so that the listings published by the network based system accurately reflect the available inventory of the high volume seller.

The client programs executed by one or more of the client devices e.g. mobile computing device and or PC also may include a messaging client. The messaging client may comprise for example an application that supports one or more modes of communication such as e mail IM SMS MMS telephone VoIP video messaging and so forth. It can be appreciated that some messaging clients may required and or launch an Internet connection in the background when executed.

In accordance with various embodiments the network based system may communicate with and provide services to users such as buyers and or sellers of goods such as event tickets. For example the network based system may comprise or implement an online ticket marketplace for buyers and sellers of tickets for live events such as sports concerts theater and other entertainment events.

It is to be appreciated that goods for purchase and or sale may include both tangible goods e.g. physical tickets electronic tickets intangible goods e.g. rights and or licenses that are afforded by the tickets and other goods in accordance with the described embodiments. It also is to be appreciated that users other than buyers and or sellers may communicate with the network based system . In some cases for example the client may be associated with an administrator or customer service agent and may communicate with the network based system to monitor update and or otherwise manage one or more computing devices and or services of the network based system .

In various implementations the servers of the network based system may comprise or implement software components deployed in a tiered environment where one or more servers are used to host server software running in each tier. For example using a three tiered architecture one or more server software components may be hosted by front end servers one more server software components may be hosted by a middle tier or middleware implemented by application servers and one more server software components may be hosted by a back end tier implemented by databases and or file systems. In some embodiments servers of the network based system may be communicatively coupled with each other via a local area network LAN and or suitable intranet or back end network.

The network based system may comprise one or more communications servers for providing suitable interfaces to enable communication using various modes of communication and or via one or more networks . In the embodiment of the communications servers include a web server an API server and a messaging server to provide interfaces to one or more application servers . The application servers of the network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to provide various online marketplace and or ticket fulfillment services to users that access the network based system .

In various usage scenarios the client may communicate with the applications servers of the network based system via one or more of a web interface provided by the web server a programmatic interface provided by the API server and a messaging interface provided by the messaging server . It can be appreciated that the web server the API server and the messaging server may be structured arranged and or configured to communicate with various types of client devices and or client programs and may interoperate with each other in some implementations.

The web server may be arranged to host web pages e.g. HTML documents and provide an appropriate web interface e.g. HTTP CGI etc. for enabling data to be presented to and received from entities via the Internet. The web server may be arranged to communicate with web clients and or applications such as a web browser web browser toolbar desktop widget mobile widget web based application web based interpreter virtual machine and so forth. The web server may provide a web interface to enable access by the client and or the third party to the various services and functions provided by the application servers . For example the web server may be arranged to receive data from the client and or third party and to pass the data to one or more application servers within the network based system . The web server also may present the client and or third party with relevant static and dynamic content hosted by the network based system in response to various requests and or events.

The API server may be arranged to communicate with various client programs and or a third party application e.g. third party web site comprising an implementation of API for the network based system . The API server may provide a programmatic interface to enable access by the client and or the third party to the various services and functions provided by the application servers . For example the programmatic interface provided by the API server may be used for batch mode and or real time communication with a high volume seller for receiving and updating inventory listings. The programmatic interface provided by the API server also may be used to communicate relevant static or dynamic content hosted by the network based system to an API implementation of one or more client programs and or a third party application e.g. third party web site . The API implementation may comprise for example executable code in accordance with a SDK provided by the network based system .

The messaging server may be arranged to communicate with various messaging clients and or applications such as e mail IM SMS MMS telephone VoIP video messaging and so forth. The messaging server may provide a messaging interface to enable access by the client and or the third party to the various services and functions provided by the application servers . For example the messaging interface provided by the messaging server may be used to communicate with the client and or the third party in a variety of ways such as via e mail IM SMS MMS video messaging and or a telephone call e.g. landline mobile VoIP with a customer service agent and or IVR system.

When implemented as an online ticket marketplace the application servers of the network based system may provide various online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services including for example account services buying services selling services listing catalog services dynamic content management services delivery services payment services and notification services. In the exemplary embodiment shown in the application servers may comprise an account server a buying server a selling server a listing catalog server a dynamic content management server a payment server a notification server and a delivery server structured and arranged to provide such online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services.

The application servers in turn may be coupled to and capable of accessing one or more databases including a subscriber database an events database and a transaction database . The databases generally may store and maintain various types of information for use by the application servers and may comprise or be implemented by various types of computer storage devices e.g. servers memory and or database structures e.g. relational object oriented hierarchical dimensional network in accordance with the described embodiments.

The account server implemented by one or more of the application servers may allow a user to establish and or manage a subscriber account with the network based system . For example while some services provided by the network based system may be generally accessible a user may be required to access an existing subscriber account or register a new subscriber account with the network based system in order to receive certain customized and or subscriber specific services.

To create a subscriber account a user may provide the network based system with account information such as a unique username e mail address password name location e.g. address city country and or zip code telephone numbers e.g. home work and or mobile and or other required information for identifying and or authenticating the user. After receiving the required account information and instructions from the user to create the subscriber account the network based system may create the subscriber account and store the account information in the subscriber database .

To effectuate the buying or selling of goods such as event tickets the user may be required to link the subscriber account of to a source of funds and or financial value for completing different transactions via the network based system . It can be appreciated that the user may provide various types of entities or third party financial accounts capable of supplying or receiving funds and or financial value in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary entities and or third party financial accounts may include without limitation a bank bank account lender line of credit credit card company credit card account debit card prepaid debit card account third party payment services account e.g. PayPal account payroll account check money order or any other suitable source of financial value.

Additionally or alternatively to linking the subscriber account to a source of financial value based on a commercial currency e.g. U.S. dollar a user may link to the subscriber account to a source of financial value based on a proprietary and or promotional currency e.g. points rewards coupons capable of accumulation and or redemption by the user to pay for goods or services. It can be appreciated that multiple sources of funds and or financial value associated with the user may be linked to the subscriber account enabling the user to select among such sources to effectuate different payment transactions via the network based system . The user may select various options for receiving payment when a sale is effectuated via the network based system . For example the user may request payment for sales via check deposit to a third party payment services account e.g. PayPal account or Season Ticket Account and or other type of source capable of receiving funds and or financial value in accordance with the described embodiments.

After a subscriber account is created the user may view and or make changes to account information add or edit existing contacts retrieve or change the password view and edit sources of funds and or financial value on file view and edit payment options and or otherwise manage the subscriber account. In various implementations the user may customize a subscriber account with one or more interests and ticketing preferences. For example the user may add and edit information associated with the subscriber account regarding one or more cities venues artists teams and sporting events theaters and season ticket and packages of interest to the user.

When accessing the subscriber account the user may view and or manage various details of past and pending transactions. For example the subscriber account may provide a seller with details regarding past and pending ticket sale listings e.g. shipped canceled inactive expired deleted active pending confirmation awaiting shipment and may allow the user to track event listings modify the prices of event listings view and confirm received orders view and confirm orders to ship print or reprint shipping labels view shipped orders view canceled orders view the status of payments and edit payment options view past payments and so forth. The subscriber account also may provide a buyer with details regarding past and pending ticket purchase transactions e.g. past orders purchased delivered canceled expired order status delivery status active bids auctions lost and may allow the user to view order history track active bids modify offers download and print electronic tickets view and edit payment options and so forth.

In accordance with various embodiments sellers with one or more active listings can access an interactive event venue seat map via their my active ticket listings page in their account. A compare prices icon may be presented for each active listing that when clicked displays an interactive event venue seat map for that listing to allow the seller to keep abreast of pricing trends for the event and make necessary pricing adjustments as needed.

The user also may customize a subscriber account with one or more notification preferences. For example the user may configure the subscriber account to receive notifications change notifications and or discontinue notifications. In some cases the user may request to receive promotions via an e mail newsletter featuring events happening in a particular location. The user also may subscribe to receive customized alert notifications in a variety of ways such as via e mail IM SMS MMS and or other suitable delivery mechanism. In addition to receiving such notifications via e mail IM SMS MMS the user may access the subscriber account and view recent notifications such as alert notifications and other messages received in the past week.

In accordance with various embodiments sellers with one or more active listings may choose to and or automatically receive transactional e mail messages that complement and drive sellers to an interactive event venue seat map. The transactional e mail messages may inform sellers that their tickets are still listed and that the event date is approaching and also provide a link to the online ticket marketplace and or an interactive event venue seat map for the event to allow sellers to view the most recent pricing data.

The selling server implemented by one or more of the application servers may allow a user to offer goods for sale via an online marketplace provided by the network based system . To list goods for sale such as a single or multiple event tickets a seller may provide the network based system with required event information such as event location of the tickets sale type ticket quantity seating details e.g. section row seat comments price and payment method. It can be appreciated that one or more delivery options may be available for selling the tickets depending on the locations of the buyer and the seller the time remaining before the event and or the form of the tickets e.g. physical tickets electronic tickets .

After receiving the required event information and instructions from the seller to publish an event listing the network based system may create an active event and store the event information in the events database for publication to users of the network based system . The event information stored in the events database may change frequently as new event listings for upcoming events are added and then removed when the tickets for such events listings are purchased. The events database may store relatively static information for an event such as category e.g. sports concerts theater as well as real time dynamic information such as current event listings true levels of ticket inventory and pricing information for active event listings and sold event listings.

In accordance with various embodiments the selling server of the network based system may be configured to obtain and or provide information for active ticket listings and sold ticket listings. The information may comprise pricing information including active ticket prices e.g. fixed auction and or declining prices for unsold tickets and sold ticket prices e.g. actual prices fans have paid for specific locations for providing an accurate representation of the current market value of tickets for an event. For each event the pricing information may comprise data defining active listings e.g. section row quantity listed price and sold listings e.g. section row quantity date sold price for each section and for each zone e.g. aggregated sections in an event venue.

The pricing information also may include data defining the highest price the lowest price and the average price for all active tickets and or sold tickets within any section or zone. In some implementations the average price may be calculated as a median price for all active and or sold tickets within any section or zone by dropping the lowest and highest priced tickets. The pricing information may comprise data defining comparable sections such as the top ten sections which are closest in price. The pricing information may further comprise the overall average ticket price for an event calculated for example by dropping the five lowest and highest priced tickets. The pricing information also may include rising and falling pricing trend information such as price change data e.g. the percentage change in the average price of sold tickets for an event within the last N number of days listing rate data e.g. the percentage change in the amount of active listings within the past week and or selling rate data e.g. the percentage change in the amount of sold tickets within the past week . It can be appreciated that other types of information and or data may be obtained and or provided in accordance with the described embodiments.

To create an event listing for publishing tickets for an upcoming event which are for sale a seller may select the appropriate type of event city or venue for event tickets being offered for sale and then may be queried or prompted to select a specific event after making selections from various categories and subcategories presented via a set of interactive pull down menus. Once an event has been selected the seller may provide the price per ticket and the ending date of the sale when the event listing is to be removed from publication. For some events the event listing may expire three business days before the event. In certain markets tickets may be sold on consignment and the listing may remain until the start of the event.

In some cases if the seller has additional tickets to list for the same event or for the same team e.g. season tickets the seller is able to start the listing process for the additional tickets with the previously selected ticket event e.g. Mar. 20 2007 Dallas Mavericks New York Knicks the previously selected genres e.g. sports basketball NBA 2006 20007 regular season New York Knicks and or the previously selected seats. For example the seller may list multiple tickets as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 689 787 titled System and Method for Posting Multiple Items for Sale which was filed on Mar. 22 2007 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In accordance with various embodiments the seller creates an event listing for publishing tickets to an upcoming event which are for sale. To create the event listing the seller may be presented with a pull down menu listing categories such as sports tickets concert tickets theater and arts tickets and ticket gift certificates. If the seller selects the sports tickets category a pull down menu listing sports tickets such as baseball tickets basketball tickets football tickets and other types of sports tickets is presented. If the seller then selects football tickets a pull down menu listing sports subcategories such as NFL tickets CFL tickets and NCAA tickets is presented. If the seller selects the NFL tickets a pull down menu listing ticket subcategories such as NFL regular season tickets NFL playoff tickets and NFL pro bowl tickets is presented. If the seller selects the NFL regular season tickets a pull down menu listing NFL teams is presented. Once the seller selects tickets for particular NFL team a listing of available events including event details e.g. team and opponent date time venue name for the team are displayed which can be sorted by event date and venue. The seller may then select an event from the listing of available events. It can be appreciated that appropriate sets of pull down menus for listing categories and successive subcategories may be presented for any type of event ticket in accordance with the described embodiments.

After an event has been selected the seller may provide the network based system with the shipping location of the tickets and verify current contact information e.g. address and telephone phone number . The seller may select from various delivery options e.g. courier electronic delivery and provide a sale type such as a fixed price sale e.g. set price capable of subsequent modification a declining price sale e.g. automatically decreasing price over time from maximum price to minimum or an auction sale e.g. buyers bid from a starting price during an open period with the highest bidder placing an order when the auction closes .

The seller may provide the ticket quantity for specific seats or general admission. The seller may provide the ticket quantity and may allow the quantity of offered tickets to be split among several buyers in multiples of two. The seller may provide seating and ticket details for the offered tickets such as section row seat numbers and may provide other comments. In some cases the seller may select to prevent buyers from viewing the specific seat numbers when the event listing is published by the network based system .

In accordance with various embodiments when entering seating and ticket details the seller may be presented with a user interface that provides a lookahead section filter. As the seller begins to type partial information for an event that is associated with an interactive event venue seat map into a section field the field is read and relevant sections are displayed to the seller in a drop down menu. The seller may then choose the section from the menu making the entering of ticket details easier for the seller and reducing the number of listings that go unmapped and therefore unsold.

After the seller has provided the required seating and ticket details the seller is prompted to enter a price per ticket and payment method. The seller may provide a selected payment method for the sale of the tickets such as via check deposit to a third party payment services account e.g. PayPal account Season Ticket Account and or other type of source capable of receiving funds and or financial value. The seller also may select to donate some or all of the proceeds of a sale to a third party such as a non profit organization or entity e.g. charity foundation fund alliance society as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 697 850 titled System and Method for Providing Logistics for a Sale or Transfer of Goods with Proceeds Provided to a Third Party which was filed on Oct. 30 2003 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In accordance with various embodiments the listing process for sellers includes a price mapping feature that introduces sold ticket data in a uniformly displayed interactive event venue seat map for enabling sellers to view both sold and current listing data for any section or zone in an event venue. When entering pricing information the seller may be presented with a user interface for entering payment method and pricing information that provides a compare prices feature. In addition to providing a price field for allowing the seller to enter a price per ticket the user interface may provide a compare prices icon. When the compare prices icon is clicked the seller is presented with an interactive event venue seat map regardless of whether the seller has entered pricing information.

In one or more implementations the interactive event venue seat map may be displayed within a DIV pop up overlay that substantially overlays e.g. 70 overlay the user interface for entering the payment method and pricing information. The overlay may provide the event information e.g. event name venue and date ticket details e.g. section and row entered by the seller pricing trend information e.g. rising or falling sales and an event summary e.g. average price for the event number of active listings and number of sold listings . The overlay also may include a price input field for entering and or editing a price per ticket. In some cases the price input field may be pre populated with previously entered pricing information. When pricing information e.g. price per ticket is included in the price input field the overlay may provide a ticket price comparison showing the total number of comparable sections.

In accordance with various embodiments the overlay comprises an interactive event venue seat map comprising a layout of the event venue indicating sections of the event venue for which tickets are listed. In response to the ticket details e.g. section and row entered by the seller a tabbed sold active pop up window is displayed that overlays a portion of the interactive event venue seat map that presents the name of the section entered by the seller and available pricing information for the section and corresponding tab e.g. sold tab or active tab . In one implementation the sold active pop up window presents the lowest sold active price for the section the average sold active price for the section the highest sold active price for the section and corresponding indicators. When pricing information is available for the section of the seller a section marker pointing to the section and indicating the average price for the section is also presented on the interactive event venue seat map. If there is no available pricing information for the section of the seller a message is displayed requesting the seller to click on a comparable section.

When pricing information is available for the section the sold active pop up window also presents ticket details and transaction information for sold or active event listings that may be displayed in columns that can be sorted by the seller. The ticket details for sold event listings may include row and quantity and the transaction information for sold event listings may include the sold date and price paid. The ticket details for active event listings may include row and quantity and the transaction information for active event listings may includes the listed price per ticket.

In response to the price per ticket entered by the seller section markers pointing to comparable sections that are within a predetermined range of the price per ticker entered by the seller and indicating the average price for tickets within each comparable section are presented on the interactive event venue seat map. Such section makers show sections where the average sold price is close to the price that the seller is considering which helps the seller pinpoint sections to look at in more detail.

The interactive event venue seat map allows the seller to browse and click on sections to see sold and listed data for any section in the event venue. When presented with the interactive event venue seat map the seller may roll over a particular section causing a roll over screen to appear that includes the section name the average sold price for tickets in the section and the average listed price for tickets in the section. If the particular section is clicked and pricing information is available for the zone the sold active pop up displays the section name and presents ticket details and transaction information for sold or active event listings within the section.

The interactive event venue seat map also provides a zone view that allows sellers to click on any zone name in a zone legend to see all sold and listed data for that zone. If a zone name is clicked and pricing information is available for the zone the sold active pop up displays the zone name and presents ticket details and transaction information for sold or active event listings within the zone. If the sold tab is selected the ticket details include section row and quantity and the transaction information includes the sold date and price paid. If the active tab is selected the ticket details include section row and quantity and the transaction information includes the listed price per ticket. When the seller clicks a different tab pricing information ticket details and transaction information corresponding to the different tab is presented if available.

The interactive event venue seat map also provides a compare feature to provide sellers with a quick visual indication whether a proposed sale price is within a sale price range determined from sold and current listing data of other similar listings. For example the seller may enter or edit and price per and use the compare feature to view a list of comparable sections and available pricing information. After being presented with market value information and finally deciding on a price per ticket the seller can save and or update the price of a ticket for a new or existing event listing.

In general the interactive event venue seat map provides sellers with the opportunity to view pricing details to allow for a more accurate picture of the current market value of their tickets. Accordingly sellers are better able to price their tickets based on the truest market value resulting in a quicker sale. In some embodiments the interactive event venue seat map also may provide a visual warning to a seller when a proposed price is not competitive with respect to sold and current listing data of other similar listings.

The buying server implemented by one or more of the application servers may allow a user to locate goods offered for sale via an online marketplace provided by the network based system . To find goods for sale such as a single or multiple event tickets a buyer may view active event listing published by the network based system .

In accordance with various embodiments information may be presented to and or received from information from the user via one or more user interfaces presented on the display of a client device e.g. PC or mobile device . The user interfaces presented to the user by a client side web application may comprise a search engine interface e.g. text entry boxes input fields checkboxes clickable hyperlinks pull down menus etc. for allowing the user to provide event criteria for searching and or filtering event listings. The user interfaces presented to the user also may comprise search results including upcoming event listings that satisfy the event criteria.

For example the buyer may browse active event listings by clicking and following links for various event categories and subcategories such as sports tickets concert tickets theater tickets cities sports teams artists show type e.g. Broadway opera ballet comedy event names and so forth. The buyer also may search for events using a search engine interface and or one or more pull down menus. For example the buyer may enter one or more keywords into a search engine text entry box and view results comprising active events that satisfy the query. In various implementations the buyer may be presented with a ticket finder screen comprising a plurality of pull down menus for allowing the buyer to quickly formulate a search by selecting a category e.g. sports concert theater etc. a location e.g. city and a number of tickets from the pull down menus.

In some embodiments a user may search for and or request upcoming event information based on a variety of event criteria such as an event name category city venue artist genre team player e.g. starting pitcher favorite player theater date range date number of tickets price range ticket attributes e.g. zone range zone section range section row range row seat number range seat number and or combination thereof. Accordingly the event criteria included in a search query may comprise ticket attributes as well as one or more conditions associated with the event parameters for requesting information for such upcoming events only when such conditions are met.

It can be appreciated that various combinations of event criteria are possible in accordance with the described embodiments. For example a user may request upcoming event information specifying combinations such as a certain number of tickets and a maximum price a particular artist and a certain city a certain player and a particular event venue and so forth. A user also may request upcoming event information based on one or more ticket attributes. For instance a user may request a certain number of tickets for an upcoming event in one or more specified zones sections rows and or or seats. Additionally event criteria may be applied alone or in combination across one or more events. A user may request for example tickets in a certain row e.g. front row or row range e.g. rows 1 5 within a specified zone e.g. club infield or section e.g. section 224 for a designated team e.g. professional baseball team and or for one or more games e.g. particular opponent rivalry game . The embodiments are not limited in the regard.

It can be appreciated that in some cases an upcoming event may not satisfy all event criteria specified by the user. For example tickets for an upcoming event may be available but not within a price range specified by the user. Additionally there may be no upcoming events that satisfy the event criteria specified by the user when there are no available tickets such as when no sellers have listed tickets for an event and or before tickets for an event go on sale. In such cases the client side web application may inform the user that there are no search results satisfying the search criteria and then perform a new search with relaxed search criteria. Alternatively or additionally the client side web application may automatically relax the search criteria and attempt another search.

Once a buyer has located and selected an event the tickets being offered for sale for the event may be presented to the buyer. In various embodiments the user may view the details of tickets being offered for sale and the location of tickets in the event venue as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 552 782 titled Method and System for Illustrating Where a Ticket is Located in an Event Venue which was filed on Oct. 25 2006 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments the buyer may be presented with an interactive event venue seat map and details of available tickets according to criteria specified by the buyer.

In one implementation for example after selecting an event the buyer may be presented with an interactive event venue seat map and an initial listing of all event tickets for sale. The event listings may include details such as section row quantity and price and may be sorted by the buyer according to such details. The sections of the interactive event venue seat map for which tickets are available may be displayed in color while sections having no available tickets may be displayed in white.

Within the interactive event venue seat map comparable or similarly located e.g. upper level sections having available tickets may be displayed in the same color while sections having available tickets that are not comparable or similarly located may be displayed in different colors. For example the colors used in the sections may correspond to zones for the sections with each zone comprising several comparable or similarly located sections. Along with the interactive event venue seat map the buyer may be presented list comprising the different zone names and the color used for each zone. The names of zones having available tickets may be displayed in black text while the names of zones having no available tickets may be displayed in gray text.

When presented with the interactive event venue seat map the buyer may roll over a particular section causing a roll over screen to appear indicating the quantity and price range of tickets available in that section. By clicking on a particular section the event listings may be filtered to display only the event listings in the selected section along with the specific details e.g. section row quantity price for such tickets. The buyer also may zoom in zoom out drag and or rotate the interactive event venue seat map.

When presented with the initial listing of all event tickets for sale the buyer may filter the initial listing by inputting criteria such as one or more price ranges e.g. 75 286 286 349 349 442 442 559 and 559 and up . Once the buyer selects a price range the event listings are filtered to display only the event listings in the selected price range. Additionally the interactive event venue seat map is modified to display sections in color for which tickets are available in the selected price range.

Each event listing may include ticket attributes such as section row quantity and price. Each listing also may include a link to view additional details that when clicked may display the ticket attributes along with further ticket details e.g. seat numbers time remaining to purchase the tickets seller comments delivery options a selectively enlargeable image of the event venue for reviewing the location of the seats and an action button for initiating purchase of the tickets.

To place an order for the tickets the buyer may provide a delivery location select a method of payment e.g. credit card confirm the transaction details e.g. description of the tickets delivery method delivery location payment amount and method of payment and the complete the purchase. When the buyer places the order a confirmation e mail is sent to the buyer and the seller is notified of the order request via e mail and requested to confirm the availability and delivery of the tickets. Upon receiving confirmation from the seller that the tickets have been sent the buyer is notified as to when delivery can be expected. It can be appreciated that upon the sale of the tickets one or more delivery options may be available depending on the locations of the buyer and the seller the time remaining before the event and or the form of the tickets e.g. physical tickets electronic tickets .

The listing catalog server implemented by one or more of the application servers may be arranged to receive and respond to queries and or to provide access to event information stored in the events database . A query to the listing catalog server may comprise for example a search query web query web feed request e.g. RSS feed request ATOM feed request API request HTTP request e.g. Get Post etc. a web form submission e.g. XHTML HTML form and or suitable request mechanism in accordance with the described embodiments. In various implementations a query may be submitted to the listing catalog server via one or more communications servers from one or more client devices client programs a third party server and or a third party application . Queries also may be submitted to the listing catalog server internally from other application severs of the network based system .

In one embodiment the listing catalog server may be implemented by a distributed architecture comprising a plurality of distributed indexing modules. Each of the distributed indexing modules may provide an interface for receiving queries from front end servers such as the communications servers . The distributed indexing modules may store and build updatable indexes against which a query can be checked to expedite retrieval of a query result. The indexes may comprise for example common keywords or search terms and event IDs linked to such keywords or search terms. The distributed indexing modules also may cache common query results.

The distributed indexing modules may be arranged to receive updated indexing information brokered via a message bus from a local gatherer module. The local gatherer in turn may be coupled to and collect indexing information from the events database . The indexing modules may update and or filter the indexes based on the updated information received from the local gatherer module and or information from other indexing modules.

The local gatherer module may be arranged to periodically scan items stored in the events database and obtain updated indexing information. For example the local gatherer module may request items from the events database that have changed within a given time period. The event information stored in the events database may change frequently as new event listings for upcoming events are added and then removed when the tickets for such events listings are purchased. Furthermore the events database may store relatively static information for an event such as category e.g. sports concerts theater as well as real time dynamic information such as current event listings and true levels of ticket inventory. It can be appreciated that the event information maintained by the events database may be extremely dynamic especially in cases where LMS and electronic ticketing services are provided by the network based system .

The listing catalog server may receive and respond to the queries with event information for upcoming events that satisfy such queries. The event information may be provided locally from the listing catalog server if available e.g. cached and or may be retrieved by the listing catalog server from the events database . In various implementations event information from the listing catalog server may be communicated via one or more communications servers to one or more client devices client programs a third party server and or a third party application . The event information from the listing catalog server also may be provided internally to other application severs of the network based system .

Exemplary event information parameters that may be included in the response from the listing catalog server are described below in the following table.

It can be appreciated that in some implementations not all of the event information parameters included in the table may be necessary to present the requested upcoming event information to the user. Accordingly when all of the event information parameters are included the response may be parsed to extract only those event information parameters that are needed. Alternatively the query and or the response may be configured to request and respond with only those event information parameters necessary to display the requested upcoming event information. It also can be appreciated that the response may include different event information parameters and or additional event information parameters than those described in the table.

The dynamic content management server implemented by one or more of the application servers may be arranged to provide a user with relevant and or related dynamic content customized according to a particular context of the user. The dynamic event information may comprise for example event information that changes as new event listings for upcoming events are added and as event listings are removed when the tickets for such events listings are purchased and real time event specific information such as current event listings price ranges and true levels of ticket inventory. Relevant or related dynamic content may comprise for example dynamic content customized according to the location of the user such as location based advertising content e.g. banner ads relevant and or related categories and subcategories e.g. links for local sports teams artists performing in the location theater shows playing in the location a list of event names and dates for upcoming events in the location arranged by category and or other type of dynamic featured content that changes according to the location of the user.

In some implementations the appearance of a user interface displayed to the user may be customized or branded with dynamic content based on the location of the user and or event criteria specified by the user. For example a web page or web client may comprise a comprise a header skin or other designated area that dynamically displays different graphics e.g. pictures logos backgrounds etc. advertisements news and or other featured content received from the network based system according to the location and or event criteria of the user.

In various embodiments the dynamic content management server may be structured arranged and or configured to bind dynamic information to a particular node and or combination of nodes defining the context of the user. Exemplary nodes may include for example geography nodes e.g. event cities category nodes e.g. sports concerts theater sports nodes e.g. baseball football basketball sports subcategory nodes e.g. professional college music genre nodes e.g. jazz rock alternative theater subcategory nodes e.g. musical comedy ticket subcategory nodes e.g. regular season playoff bowl conference nodes team nodes artist nodes theater show nodes venue nodes event nodes and so forth. It can be appreciated such nodes may be arranged e.g. hierarchically and or in other ways in accordance with the described embodiments.

The dynamic content management server may be configured bind dynamic content such as relevant and or related categories and subcategories event listings for upcoming events promotional or advertising content UI graphics and or various other types of customized content to a node or combination of nodes. When navigating a web site provided by the network based system for example the user may be presented with links for selecting from among various locations categories and or subcategories and for viewing content associated with such selections. When the user makes a particular selection the context of the user may be defined by one or more nodes associated with such selection and the user may be presented with dynamic content customized to the context of the user.

In various embodiments the dynamic content management server may implement a front end query tool and presentation layer to query the listing catalog server according to the context of the user. In response to the query the dynamic content management server may receive dynamic content e.g. XML content from the listing catalog server and provide the dynamic content to one or more dynamic content modules embedded in a web page presented to the user. Accordingly the content associated with event listings may change based on the context of the user configurable parameters and or available inventory.

In one example a user selects a particular city and the dynamic content management server has bound dynamic content to a geography node associated with the particular city. Upon selection of the particular city by the user the context of the user may be defined at least in part by the geography node of the selected city and the user may be presented with the dynamic content that is bound to the geography node. In this case the user may be presented with a web page including dynamic content customized for the particular city such as graphics e.g. pictures background and advertising content e.g. banner ads for the particular city relevant and or related categories and subcategories e.g. links for local sports teams artists performing in concert in the city theater shows playing in the city a list of event names and dates for upcoming events in the city arranged by category and or other type of dynamic content that changes according to the city selected by the user.

In another example a user selects a particular football team and the dynamic content management server has bound dynamic content to a team node associated with the particular football team. Upon selection of the team by the user the context of the user may be defined at least in part by the team node and the user may be presented with the dynamic content that is bound to the team node. In this case the user may be presented with a web page including dynamic content customized for the particular team. For example the web page presented to the user may be dynamically branded with graphics e.g. pictures background advertising content e.g. banner ads and or news associated with the particular team. The user also may be presented with event listings for upcoming games for the team as well as relevant and or related categories and subcategories e.g. links for road games playoff games for the team. In this implementation the context of the user may be defined by one or more other nodes in a hierarchical path to the team node such as a category node e.g. sports sports nodes e.g. football sports subcategory node e.g. professional and ticket subcategory node e.g. regular season . As such the user may be presented with dynamic content bound to one or more of such nodes such as links to other professional football teams for which regular season tickets are available.

It can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited to the foregoing examples and that dynamic content may be bound to a particular nodes and or a combination of nodes for customizing that content displayed to a user based on the context of the user. Accordingly the dynamic content management server may be used to create dynamic content campaigns including a various types of static and dynamic content and to bind such campaigns to nodes or groups of nodes that define a context of the user. It also can be appreciated that a node and or combination of nodes can be detected as a user selects one more links and or in other ways such as when a query is submitted e.g. text entry selection of checkboxes selection from a pull down menu a search result is returned or in any other way in accordance with the described embodiments.

The payment server implemented by one or more of the application servers may be arranged to effectuate and or manage payments between buyers and sellers and to post and track financial transactions for users of the network based system . Transaction information for past and pending transactions may be stored by the network based system in the transaction database . The payment server also may provide dispute resolution mechanisms to handle payment disputes arising between transacting parties and or fraud prevention mechanisms to prevent fraudulent transaction unauthorized use of financial instruments non delivery of goods abuse of personal information and so forth. While the payment server is shown in as forming part of the networked based system it will be appreciated that the payment server may form part of a third party payment system that is separate and distinct from the network based system in alternative embodiments.

In various implementations the payment server may account for a transfer of funds and or financial value by debiting the a source of funds and or financial value linked to the subscriber account of the buyer and crediting a source of funds and or financial value linked to the subscriber account of the seller. For example the network based system may securely communicate with one or more financial institutions such as a bank or credit card company over one or more networks and arrange the transfer of funds and or financial value from the buyer to the seller. It can be appreciated that while certain settlement mechanisms may be described for purposes of illustration the embodiments are not limited in this regard and a variety of settlement networks and modalities may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

In one embodiment after the buyer reviews and confirms an order the account e.g. credit card of the buyer is verified and the sale amount e.g. ticket price plus delivery cost is authorized. The seller is notified of the proposed purchase by e mail or other notification mechanism and requested to confirm that the tickets are still available and that the transaction can be completed.

Upon receiving confirmation from the seller the account e.g. credit card of the buyer is charged. Funds from the account of the buyer may be electronically transferred into a merchant account associated with the network based system and a transaction fee may be deducted. The remaining proceeds are then directed to the seller by issuing a payment in accordance with the payment method selected by the seller such as via check deposit to a third party payment services account e.g. PayPal account Season Ticket Account and or other type of source capable of receiving funds and or financial value and or donation to a third party such as a non profit organization or entity.

It can be appreciated that the network based system may provide a double blind complete ticket sale transaction without interaction between buyer and seller. Namely the network based system may facilitate an entire ticket sale transaction without requiring any interaction between the seller and the buyer. The network based system controls and or facilitates the entire sale and purchase process and serves as an intermediary between the buyer and seller effectively isolating the participation of the seller in the transaction from the participation of the buyer in the transaction. Accordingly the identity of one transacting party can remain concealed from the other.

The notification server implemented by one or more of the application servers may be arranged to generate and send various types of notifications to users of the network based system . The notification server may communicate with users over one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a WAN a WWAN a WLAN a mobile telephone network a landline telephone network a VoIP network etc. via interfaces provided the communications servers such as the web server API server and or messaging server . It can be appreciated that in some implementations notifications may be forwarded to users via an intermediary such as an Internet Service Provider ISP online service provider OSP web based e mail service provider message aggregator e.g. SMS aggregator mobile transaction network entity and so forth.

The notifications may comprise messages delivered to users via e mail IM SMS MMS video message telephone call as well as messages delivered to the subscriber account of the user. In some cases the notifications may provide the user with information related to various online marketplace transactions. For example notifications may be sent to sellers for indicating the status of event listings informing the seller of offers e.g. auction bids for event listings or sales of similar tickets and allowing the user to modify the prices of event listings notifying the seller of placed orders and requesting confirmation of the availability of tickets for such orders providing delivery instructions and requesting confirmation of delivery tracking shipped orders providing the status of payments and so forth. Notifications may be sent to buyers for tracking ticket purchase transactions e.g. active bids auctions lost for event listings and allowing the buyer to modify offers confirming an order and delivery tracking shipped orders providing pick up instructions and requesting confirmation of receipt downloading and print electronic tickets and so forth.

In accordance with various embodiments sellers with one or more active listings may choose to and or automatically receive transactional e mail messages that complement and drive sellers to an interactive event venue seat map. The transactional e mail messages may inform sellers that their tickets are still listed and that the event date is approaching and also provide a link to the online ticket marketplace and or an interactive event venue seat map for the event to allow sellers to view the most recent pricing data.

In some implementations a buyer may subscribe to receive customized alert notifications for upcoming events as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 262 468 titled System and Methods for Upcoming Event Notification and Mobile Purchasing which was filed on Oct. 31 2008 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such implementations the notification server may be arranged to generate and send an alert notification comprising a text message including relevant static or dynamic event information as well as an embedded hyperlink. The hyperlink may comprise a hyperlinked telephone number for allowing the user to place a telephone call to an agent of the network based system for transacting a mobile purchase. Alternatively or additionally the hyperlink may comprise a URL or URI for navigating to the network based system for transacting the mobile purchase.

It can be appreciated that in some cases an upcoming event may not satisfy all event criteria specified by the user. In some implementations when there are no upcoming events that satisfy all the event criteria specified by the user the user may choose to receive alert notifications for one or more upcoming events conditioned on the complete satisfaction of the event criteria. In such implementations the network based system may allow the user to select to receive an alert notification whenever an upcoming event that substantially and or completely satisfies the search criteria is listed. For example the user may choose to receive on sale alert notifications when tickets that satisfy one or more preferences of the user become available. The network based system also may provide the user with various capabilities e.g. preference settings and options to allow the user to receive on sale alert notifications for preferred tickets and to allow the user to automatically and or optionally purchase such preferred tickets.

The delivery server implemented by one or more of the application servers may arrange the delivery of goods from the seller to the buyer. For the delivery of time sensitive goods such as a single or multiple event tickets the network based system may determine and present delivery options that ensure that an event ticket is delivered to the buyer before an event and the costs associated with such delivery options.

In various embodiments the network based system may coordinate the delivery of event tickets as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 867 171 titled System and Method for Providing Logistics for a Sale of Goods which was filed on Sep. 27 2001 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments the network based system may automatically arrange and or facilitate the logistics for the delivery of event tickets from the seller to the buyer.

In one implementation for example when the buyer places an order available delivery options are presented to the buyer that ensure that the event tickets can be delivered before the event either to the buyer or to a pick up location e.g. event venue will call or an office of the network based system in proximity to the buyer. The network based system may determine all available delivery options based on the form of the tickets e.g. physical tickets electronic tickets the time remaining before the event the location of the goods the location of the buyer pick up locations in proximity to the buyer and or the capabilities one or more couriers e.g. air land couriers express couriers local couriers or runners that can execute the delivery within the time remaining before the event.

When a physical ticket is to be delivered the network based system may determine and present shipping options to the buyer. The buyer may provide a delivery or pick up location and the network based system may automatically determine couriers capable of ensuring delivery and present a list identifying the couriers the available shipping methods e.g. two day one day overnight same day for each courier and the associated cost of each shipping method.

When a courier and shipping method is selected by the buyer the seller may be notified and presented with a printable shipping label for the courier and logistics for providing the tickets to the courier. For example the network based system may automatically determine the closest courier facility in proximity to the seller and may allow and arrange for the courier to retrieve the tickets. In such cases the network based system may communicate relevant information e.g. seller address delivery address pick up day and time frame to the courier in order to coordinate ticket retrieval. If the courier cannot service any of the selected locations at any of the selected times the network based system may require the seller to drop off the tickets at the nearest courier facility. The seller also may select to drop off the tickets at the nearest courier facility. If the seller selects or is required to drop off the tickets the buyer may be provided with the location of the courier facility driving or walking directions to the courier facility and or a map showing the courier facility.

Upon confirmation by the seller that the tickets have been sent or picked up the network based system may communicate delivery tracking information to the buyer and or seller. The network based system may notify the buyer of the delivery location and expected time and date of delivery. If the delivery location is at a pick up location such as the event venue will call or an office associated with the network based system the buyer may be provided with the pick up location driving or walking directions to the pick up location and or a map showing the pick up location.

To ensure delivery to the buyer before an event a last sale time may be associated with an event listing. In some cases for example the last sale time for an event listing may be three business days before the event to provide sufficient transit time to ensure completion of delivery. In such cases the event listing will expire at the last sale time.

It can be appreciated that both sellers and buyers may desire the last sale time to be as close to the event start time as possible in order to maximize the opportunity to make a sale and the opportunity to witness an event. Accordingly the network based system may provide sellers and buyers with various last minute services LMS for maintaining an event listing and the ability to sell and purchase listed tickets right up to the start of the event.

In one implementation for example the network based system may allow tickets to be sold on consignment and may maintain an event listing until the start of the event. When a seller requires delivery of physical tickets for an upcoming event the seller may select to sell the tickets using LMS provided by the network based system . The seller may request LMS and provide the network based system with contact information e.g. name address telephone number e mail address ticket information e.g. event name event venue ticket event dates closest city to the event and authorization to release the tickets.

In response to the LMS request the seller may be contacted by an agent of the network based system via telephone or other contact method and provided with additional selling information. Depending on the time remaining before the event the seller may be instructed to ship or physically deliver the tickets to an LMS center associated with the network based system . Typically the location of the LMS center will be in close proximity to the event venue. The seller also may select to physically deliver the tickets to the LMS center. When physical delivery of the ticket to the LMS center is required or selected the seller may be provided with the location of the LMS center driving or walking directions to the LMS center and or a map showing the LMS center.

Once the tickets are delivered to the LMS center the event listing may be maintained until the start of the event and the subsequent delivery of the tickets to a buyer is handled by the network based system . For example the LMS center and or the network based system may handle the responsibility of shipping the tickets to the buyer delivering the tickets to the event venue will call and or the keeping the tickets at the LMS center until pick up by the buyer. It can be appreciated that the LMS provided by the network based system may facilitate delivery and allow the network based system to defer the last sale time until the start of the event.

In various embodiments the network based system may provide electronic ticketing services for allowing a buyer to purchase one or more electronic tickets that can be used at the event venue. It can be appreciated that providing such electronic ticketing services may allow the network based system to defer the last sale time until the start of the event.

When the user selects an upcoming event from event listings published by the network based system a web page may be presented to the user that includes event information for the selected upcoming event such as the name of the event the date and time of the event the event venue available ticket listings including ticket attributes e.g. section row quantity price and so forth. In some cases a purchaser of event tickets may provide the event information to the network based system in order to list the tickets for sale on a secondary market. In other cases the venue event promoter or other type of ticket issuer may provide the network based system with event details such as event description event venue event date and time artist and so forth. In response the network based system may manage the event enable the venue to sell tickets for the event manage the generation and distribution of electronic tickets and facilitate the use of electronic tickets for access control to the venue. For example the network based system may create an event listing generate electronic tickets publish available tickets for sale and coordinate the sale of the electronic tickets.

In various embodiments a web page presented to a user may comprise the event information along with a link to purchase electronic tickets and or a link to view additional details. By clicking the link to purchase electronic tickets the user may initiate a purchase of one or more electronic tickets. By clicking the link to view additional details a subsequent web page may be displayed including ticket attributes along with further ticket details e.g. seat numbers time remaining to purchase the tickets seller comments delivery options a selectively enlargeable image of the event venue for reviewing the location of the seats and an action button for initiating purchase of the tickets. In some cases one or more web pages may include a link to view delivery options such as a location of driving or walking directions to and or a map showing a pick up location.

To effectuate an electronic ticket purchase the user may be prompted to enter account information such as a unique username or e mail address and a password. Upon receiving the required account information the user is authenticated with the network based system and may initiate an electronic ticket purchase. After authentication the network based system may transact the purchase using a source of financial value linked to the subscriber account of the user or may request the user to supply payment information e.g. credit card account PayPal account etc. for the transaction.

In various embodiments a user may purchase electronic tickets and or save electronic ticket information using a web client such as a web browser web browser toolbar and or a desktop or mobile widget. For example a user may save an electronic ticket and or a hyperlink to a file associated with the electronic ticket in a subscriber account in the web browser toolbar and or within a desktop or mobile widget. The user also may display information for and differentiate among purchased electronic tickets on a client device e.g. PC or mobile device via the web client.

The buyer may purchase one or more electronic tickets using a credit card or other source of funds or financial value linked to the subscriber account of the buyer. In one or more embodiments the network based system may provide variable distribution and access control for purchased electronic tickets. For example the network based system may provide the buyer with various delivery options for receiving and or delivering the purchased electronic tickets.

The network based system may allow the buyer to have the electronic tickets delivered to an e mail address associated with the buyer. The buyer may access the e mail account display the electronic tickets and print out paper copies of the electronic tickets. Each of the paper copies of the electronic tickets may include a bar code which can be scanned at the event venue to allow access.

Alternatively or additionally the buyer may instruct the network based system to send an electronic ticket to a mobile device e.g. mobile phone or PDA associated with the buyer. For example the buyer may receive the electronic ticket at the mobile device and display a bar code of the electronic ticket on a screen of the mobile device which may be scanned at the event venue to grant access. In some usage scenarios the buyer may receive an SMS message sent to a mobile device that includes a link to a web page to render a ticket. In other usage scenarios the buyer may receive an MMS message sent to a mobile device that includes an image of the ticket. When the buyer chooses delivery to a mobile device the buyer also may receive the ticket via e mail as a backup in case the buyer wants to print out a paper copy to bring to or use at the event venue. The buyer may receive a text message at the time of ticket purchase and if the tickets are purchased more than a predetermined time before the event e.g. two days before the event a reminder text message just before e.g. one day prior to the event.

In various embodiments when the buyer purchases electronic tickets using a credit card the buyer may access the venue by swiping the credit card used to make the purchase at the event venue. Alternatively or additionally the buyer may use a driver s license to validate the ticket at the event venue. In some implementations only the buyer may use the credit card used to make the purchase or a driver s license as a means of entry at the event venue. It can be appreciated that in such implementations the buyer may validate his her ticket at the venue as well as validate other purchased tickets for other people who are present with the buyer at the time of entry into the event venue.

In various embodiments the network based system may provide the buyer with various delivery options for splitting the distribution of a single order of multiple electronic tickets among one or more recipients in addition to and or other than the buyer as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 325 789 titled System and Methods for Variable Distribution and Access Control for Purchased Event Tickets which was filed on Dec. 1 2009 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments a buyer may purchase multiple electronic tickets e.g. block of four electronic tickets at once in a single order and choose to variably distribute one or more of the purchased electronic tickets and or the underlying rights associated with one or more of the purchased electronic tickets to different end recipients using different delivery mechanisms e.g. e mail SMS message MMS message etc. or other suitable delivery mechanism. Upon delivery each electronic ticket may be used by the recipient independently of the buyer arriving at the event so that the entire party does not need to be present to enter the event venue.

As described above the network based system may communicate with users over one or more types of networks via interfaces provided the communications servers and provide various services to users such as online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services via the application servers and databases . When servicing a user the network based system may present information to and or receive information from the user in a variety of ways such by displaying and receiving information via user interfaces e.g. web pages interactive screens sending and receiving messages e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS video message placing and or receiving telephone calls e.g. landline mobile VoIP IVR calls and so forth. User interfaces also may be displayed to a user via one or more client programs such as a web client e.g. web browser desktop or mobile widget web browser toolbar and or a third party application .

Exemplary representations of user interfaces displayed on a computer for providing variable distribution and access control for purchased event tickets are described below with reference to . It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited to such exemplary representations. Furthermore it is to be understood that while a particular user interface may be described as comprising a certain set of features and functions a user interface may comprise fewer features and functions additional features and functions and or a combination of various features and functions of different user interfaces in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the user interface comprises an interactive web page for allowing a seller user to enter ticket details. The user interface includes a section field for entering section information regarding the tickets for sale. The user interface provides a lookahead section filter such that partial section information in the section field is read as the seller types and relevant sections are displayed to the seller in a drop down menu . The seller may then select the section from the menu making the entering of ticket details easier for the seller and reducing the number of listings that go unmapped and therefore unsold.

As shown the user interface comprises an interactive web page for allowing the seller to enter a payment method and a price per ticket. The user interface includes a price field for allowing the seller to enter a price per ticket and a compare prices icon . When the compare prices icon is clicked the seller is presented with an interactive event venue seat map in a separate window e.g. DIV pop up overlay regardless of whether the seller has entered pricing information into the price field .

As shown the user interface comprises an overlay e.g. DIV pop up overlay for providing sellers with the opportunity to view pricing details to allow for a more accurate picture of the current market value of their tickets. The overlay includes event information e.g. event name venue and date ticket details e.g. section and row entered by the seller pricing trend information e.g. rising or falling sales and an event summary e.g. average price for the event number of active listings and number of sold listings .

The overlay also includes a price input field for entering and or editing a price per ticket. If the user has previously entered initial pricing information within the price field of the user interface for example the price input field of the overlay is pre populated with the previously entered price. When pricing information e.g. price per ticket is included in the price input field and a compare button is clicked the overlay provides a ticket price comparison showing the total number of comparable sections. In some cases such as when price per ticket has been previously entered the ticket price comparison is automatically shown without the need to click the compare button . The overlay also includes a save price function implemented as a link icon button and or other suitable object for closing the overlay and saving and or updating the price of a ticket for a new or existing event listing.

The overlay comprises an interactive event venue seat map comprising a layout of the event venue indicating sections of an event venue for which tickets have been listed. The sections of the interactive event venue seat map having available tickets are displayed in color while sections having no available tickets are displayed in white. Comparable or similarly located e.g. upper level sections having available tickets are displayed in the same color corresponding to a zone for the aggregated sections.

In response to the ticket details e.g. section and row entered by the seller a sold active pop up window is displayed that overlays a portion of the interactive event venue seat map and that can be repositioned by dragging the sold active pop up window within the interactive event venue seat map . As shown the sold active pop up window includes a sold tab and active tab and a close box. Initially the name of the section entered by the seller is included in the sold active pop up window and one of the sold tab and active tab is selected for presentation by default. If pricing information is available for the section and for the selected tab e.g. sold tab or active tab then the lowest sold active price for the section the average sold active price for the section the highest sold active price for the section and corresponding indicators are presented in the sold active pop up window . When pricing information is available for the section a section marker pointing to the section of the seller and indicating the average price for the section of the seller is also presented on the interactive event venue seat map . Otherwise a message is presented in the sold active pop up window indicating that there is no available pricing information for the section and requesting the seller to click on a comparable section.

When pricing information is available for the section the sold active pop up window also presents ticket details and transaction information for sold or active event listings. If the sold tab is selected the ticket details include row and quantity and the transaction information includes the sold date and price paid. If the active tab is selected the ticket details include row and quantity and the transaction information includes the listed price per ticket. When the seller clicks a different tab pricing information ticket details and transaction information corresponding to the different tab is presented if available.

In response to the pricing information e.g. price per ticket entered by the seller section markers e.g. section marker and section marker pointing to comparable sections that are within a predetermined range of the price per ticket entered by the seller and indicating the average price for tickets within each comparable section are presented. Such section makers show sections where the average sold price is close to the price that the seller is considering which helps the seller pinpoint sections to look at in more detail and may be displayed when seller clicks the compare button or automatically when price per ticket has been previously entered by the seller.

The interactive event venue seat map is configured to allow the seller to browse and click on sections to see sold and listed data for any section in the event venue. The seller also may zoom in zoom out drag and or rotate the interactive event venue seat map . When presented with the interactive event venue seat map the seller may roll over e.g. mouseover a particular section causing a roll over screen e.g. mouseover box to appear that includes the section name the average sold price for tickets in the section and the average listed price for tickets in the section. If the particular section is clicked and pricing information is available for the zone the sold active pop up displays the section name and presents ticket details and transaction information for sold or active event listings within the section. As described above the seller can click on the different tabs e.g. sold tab and active tab to display available pricing information ticket details and transaction information corresponding to the selected tab.

The interactive event venue seat map also includes a zone legend showing the different zone names and color codes corresponding to the zones. For zones that have available tickets a box next to the zone name is displayed in the color corresponding to the zone. The interactive event venue seat map provides a zone view that allows sellers to click on any zone name in the zone legend to see all sold and listed data for that zone. When a zone name is selected the color code of any section not in the selected zone is faded but still remains active for mouseover or click.

If a zone name is clicked and pricing information is available for the zone the sold active pop up displays the zone name and presents ticket details and transaction information for sold or active event listings within the zone. If the sold tab is selected the ticket details include section row and quantity and the transaction information includes the sold date and price paid. If the active tab is selected the ticket details include section row and quantity and the transaction information includes the listed price per ticket. When the seller clicks a different tab pricing information ticket details and transaction information corresponding to the different tab is presented if available.

It can be appreciated that interactive event venue seat map provides sellers with the opportunity to view pricing details to allow for a more accurate picture of the current market value of their tickets. Displaying sold ticket prices serves as a highly valuable gauge for sellers arming them with insight on the actual prices fans have been willing to pay for specific locations. Accordingly sellers are better able to price their tickets based on the truest market value resulting in a quicker sale. The compare feature of the interactive event venue seat map also provides sellers with a quick visual indication whether a proposed sale price is within a sale price range determined from sold and current listing data of other similar listings. In some embodiments the interactive event venue seat map also may provide a visual warning to a seller when a proposed price is not competitive with respect to sold and current listing data of other similar listings.

After being presented with market value information the seller may enter a different price per ticket in the price input field and click on the compare button to view an updated list of comparable sections and available pricing information. After finally deciding on a price per ticket the seller can click on the save price function or the close box to close the overlay to save and or update the price of a ticket for a new or existing event listing.

As shown the user interface comprises an interactive web page for allowing the seller view active ticket listings. The user interface includes an active event listing a price field for allowing the seller to view and edit a price per ticket for the active event listing and a compare prices icon associated with the active event listing . When the compare prices icon is clicked the seller is presented with an interactive event venue seat map in a separate window e.g. DIV pop up overlay . In various implementations the price input field of the overlay is pre populated with the price included in the price field and the interactive event venue seat map displays relevant and comparable pricing information based on the ticket information for the active event listing and the price included in the price field .

As shown the logic flow may comprise providing one or more user interfaces for creating an event listing for a seller block receiving ticket details from the seller block obtaining available pricing information for the event based on sold prices and listed prices block and providing at least one user interface for presenting an interactive event venue seat map to display available pricing information for a section of the seller based on the sold prices and the listed prices block .

In accordance with various embodiments the interactive event venue seat map may comprise a layout of the event venue indicating sections of the event venue for which tickets are listed and a window overlaying a portion of the interactive event venue seat map that identifies the section of the seller and that is configured to display the available pricing information for the section of the seller based on sold prices for sold ticket listings and listed prices for active ticket listings.

It can be appreciated that while the logic flow may illustrate a certain sequence of steps other sequences of steps may also be performed in accordance with the described embodiments. Moreover some individual steps of the logic flow may include multiple sub steps that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual step. Furthermore additional steps may be added or some steps may be removed depending on the particular implementation.

In various embodiments one or more operations of the logic flow may comprise or be implemented as executable computer program instructions. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented by software a software module an application a program a subroutine instructions an instruction set computing code words values symbols or combination thereof. The executable computer program instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented according to a predefined computer language manner or syntax for instructing a computer to perform a certain function. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented using any suitable programming language in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments one or more operations of the logic flow may comprise or be implemented as executable computer program instructions stored in an article of manufacture and or computer readable storage medium. The article and or computer readable storage medium may store executable computer program instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform methods and or operations in accordance with the described embodiments. The article and or computer readable storage medium may be implemented by various systems and or devices in accordance with the described embodiments.

The article and or computer readable storage medium may comprise one or more types of computer readable storage media capable of storing data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other suitable type of computer readable storage media in accordance with the described embodiments.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components firmware components and or combination thereof.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however also may mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

