---

title: Detecting laser scanner usage and adjusting application behavior
abstract: A scanner detection model is created by a detection system to determine whether a laser scanner is present so the user is notified of the potential inability to accurately read a machine-readable identifier on a user device. A user operating the user device accesses an electronic record and a machine-readable identifier that comprises information identifying the electronic record is displayed on the user device. A scanner detection module detects display of the machine-readable identifier and turns on a camera resident on the user device. The camera captures and analyzes images. The scanner detection module identifies whether the scanner is a laser scanner based on an analysis of the images and the scanner detection model created by the detection system. If the scanner is a laser scanner, a message is displayed on the user device indicating that the machine-readable identifier is to be entered or inputted, instead of scanned.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08827157&OS=08827157&RS=08827157
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08827157
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130619
---
The present disclosure relates generally to laser scanner detection and more particularly to methods and systems for detecting a laser scanner and altering the behavior of an application executing on a user device based on the detection.

Merchants offer coupons or rebates as incentives for purchasing particular products. Traditionally coupons are distributed in a paper format. A user redeems the coupon by taking the physical coupon to a merchant and purchasing a product that satisfies the terms of the coupon. Other forms of traditional coupons include rebates for purchasing particular products wherein after purchasing a product that satisfies the terms of the rebate offer the user fills out and returns required forms to request the rebate.

More recently merchants have offered electronic offers. Such offers may be linked to merchant loyalty cards wherein a user enrolls in a merchant s loyalty program and receives a loyalty card. A user then associates certain discounts to the loyalty card and redeems these discounts by presenting the loyalty card or some form of identifying information such as a telephone number and the method of payment to the merchant when purchasing the discounted products.

With the advent of smart phone technology merchants are now able to present users with electronic offers that are accessed and saved using an offer application resident on a wireless communication device. Users can search for offers using various offer applications and present a selected offer to a merchant for redemption without requiring paper coupons loyalty cards or rebate forms.

In certain example aspects described herein a method for detecting laser scanners comprises a scanner detection model created by a detection system to determine whether a laser scanner is present so the user is notified of the potential inability to accurately read a machine readable identifier on a user computing device. The detection system gathers images related to laser scanners and images related to non laser scanners and analyzes the images to learn to identify features of a laser scanner in operation and to detect image patterns that will aid in the identification of a laser scanner that is trying to scan information on the user device.

A user operating the user device accesses an electronic record and a machine readable identifier that comprises information identifying the electronic record is displayed on a user interface of the user device. A scanner detection module detects display of the machine readable identifier and turns on a camera resident on the user device. The camera captures and analyzes images. The scanner detection module identifies whether the scanner is a laser scanner based on an analysis of the captured images and the scanner detection model created by the detection system. If the scanner is a laser scanner a message is displayed on the user device indicating that the machine readable identifier is to be entered or inputted instead of scanned.

These and other aspects objects features and advantages of the example embodiments will become apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of illustrated example embodiments.

The example embodiments described herein provide computer implemented techniques for detecting a laser scanner and altering the behavior of an application executing on a user device based on the detection. In an example embodiment the user device displays an offer for example a loyalty reward coupon discount or other offer redeemable with a merchant manufacturer service provider and or provider of goods a ticket for example a concert ticket or sporting event ticket a boarding pass a voucher a form of identification or other document that utilizes a barcode on the user interface to be scanned by a scanner for example a point of sale scanner . In an example embodiment the offer comprises a barcode such as a one dimensional barcode a QR code or other form of two dimensional code or other machine readable code that is read by the scanner. In an example embodiment the scanner is a laser scanner wherein controlled deflection of laser beams allows the scanner to read barcode or other machine readable information. However when certain machine readable information is displayed on the user interface of the user device many scanners such as laser scanners are unable to accurately read that information. Accordingly the methods and systems described herein detect when a laser scanner is trying to scan information displayed on the user interface of the user device and when detected displays a message notifying the user and or the scanner operator that the scanner cannot detect the displayed information. The user and or scanner operator can be further instructed to manually input the information into the operator s system.

A detection system creates a scanner detection model. In an example embodiment the scanner detection model is an artificial neural network or other form of adaptive system model wherein the system analyzes data and relationships to find patterns in data. In an example embodiment the model is used to determine whether a laser scanner is present so the user is notified of the potential inability to accurately read the barcode or other information. The detection system gathers images related to laser scanners and images related to non laser scanners. In an example embodiment the system gathers multiple perhaps hundreds or thousands of images. The detection system analyzes the images and learns to identify features of a laser scanner in operation and to detect image patterns that will aid in the identification of a laser scanner that is trying to scan information on a user device. In an example embodiment this process is an ongoing learning process wherein images are continuously added to the detection system and the model is continuously updated. In an example embodiment a user operating the user device enables a scanner detection feature on the user device.

The user operating the user device accesses an offer and the barcode comprising information identifying the offer is displayed on the user interface of the user device. The user shows the displayed barcode to the scanner operator who then scans the displayed barcode. In another example the user places the displayed barcode within a detection field of a scanner.

The scanner detection module detects display of the barcode and turns on the camera resident on the user device. The camera captures images at predefined intervals for example every tenth of a second every second or any other predefined interval . The scanner detection module analyzes the images. In an example embodiment the scanner detection module comprises code from the detection system that allows it to identify features of a laser scanner trying to scan information and to detect image patterns that will aid in the identification of a laser scanner. The scanner detection module identifies whether the scanner is a laser scanner. If the scanner is a laser scanner a message is displayed on the user device directing the merchant to enter the offer code instead of scanning the barcode. In order to take advantage of the techniques described herein and e.g. have the camera automatically turn on the user may have to activate a setting or install an application on her mobile device.

The scanner detection module saves the images with the corresponding laser scanner classification. When the user device has network access or at predefined intervals the saved images and corresponding laser scanner classifications are sent to the detection system to update the scanner detection model.

The functionality of the example embodiments will be explained in more detail in the following description read in conjunction with the figures illustrating the program flow.

Turning now to the drawings in which like numerals indicate like but not necessarily identical elements throughout the figures example embodiments are described in detail.

Each network includes a wired or wireless telecommunication means by which network systems including systems and can communicate and exchange data. For example each network can be implemented as or may be a part of a storage area network SAN personal area network PAN a metropolitan area network MAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless local area network WLAN a virtual private network VPN an intranet an Internet a mobile telephone network a card network Bluetooth near field communication network NFC any form of standardized radio frequency or any combination thereof or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates the communication of signals data and or messages generally referred to as data . Throughout this specification it should be understood that the terms data and information are used interchangeably herein to refer to text images audio video or any other form of information that can exist in a computer based environment.

In an example embodiment each network system including systems and includes a device having a communication module capable of transmitting and receiving data over the network . For example each network system including systems and may comprise a server personal computer mobile device for example notebook computer tablet computer netbook computer personal digital assistant PDA video game device GPS locator device cellular telephone Smartphone or other mobile device a television with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto or other appropriate technology that includes or is coupled to a web browser or other application for communicating via the network . In the example embodiment depicted in the network systems including systems and are operated by merchants users and a detection system operator respectively.

The merchant system comprises at least one point of sale POS terminal that is capable of processing a purchase transaction initiated by a user for example a cash register. In an example embodiment the merchant operates a commercial store and the user indicates a desire to make a purchase by presenting a form of payment at the POS terminal . In another example embodiment the merchant operates an online store and the user indicates a desire to make a purchase by clicking a link or checkout button on a website. In another example embodiment the user device is configured to perform the functions of the POS terminal . In this example the user scans and or pays for the transaction via the user device without interacting with the POS terminal . In another example embodiment the merchant operates a business requiring the scanning or entering of a bar code or other form of identification for example a ticket voucher form of identification boarding pass or other document that utilizes a barcode.

In an example embodiment the merchant system comprises a scanner that is capable of communicating with a user device and the POS terminal via an application . In an example embodiment the scanner is capable of reading or scanning a code for example a barcode such as a one dimensional barcode a QR code or other form of two dimensional code or other machine readable code . In an example embodiment the scanner is a barcode scanner and may be configured to read any number of barcode formats including without limitation a universal product code UPC a global trade item number GTIN a stock keeping unit SKU a Japanese article number JAN a world product code WPC an International Standard Book Number ISBN a European Article Number EAN etc. According to other example embodiments scanner may be an electronic field generator with a CPU a laser scanner a charged coupled device CCD reader a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS reader a camera based reader an omni directional barcode scanner a camera a RFID reader or any other device that is capable of reading product identifier information offer information and or other forms of information depicted in a machine readable identifier or barcode in a merchant system .

In an example embodiment the merchant system is capable of communicating with the user device via the application . The application may be an integrated part of the POS terminal or a standalone hardware device not shown in accordance with alternative example embodiments.

In an example embodiment the user device may be a personal computer mobile device for example notebook computer tablet computer netbook computer personal digital assistant PDA video game device GPS locator device cellular telephone Smartphone or other mobile device television or other appropriate technology that includes or is coupled to a web server or other suitable application for interacting with web page files. The user can use the user device to display an offer voucher boarding pass form of identification or other document comprising a barcode via a user interface and an application . The application is a program function routine applet or similar entity that exists on and performs its operations on the user device . For example the application may be one or more of a shopping application merchant system application an Internet browser a digital wallet application a loyalty card application another value added application a user interface application or other suitable application operating on the user device . In some embodiments the user must install an application and or make a feature selection on the user device to obtain the benefits of the techniques described herein.

In an example embodiment the user interface displays a machine readable code such as a barcode to be read by the scanner . The methods described herein are performed to determine whether the scanner is capable of reading the machine readable code. As used herein the term barcode refers to any form of machine readable code.

An example user device comprises a scanner detection module . An example scanner detection module is a browser plug in or user device operating system component corresponding to the detection system . The scanner detection module may be an integrated part of the application an integrated part of the user device operating system an integrated part of the detection system or a standalone hardware device not shown in accordance with other example embodiments. The user installs the scanner detection module on the user device to facilitate the detection of a laser scanner and provide a notification alerting the user and or merchant to manually enter the barcode information. In an example embodiment the camera communicates with the scanner detection module . For example the camera provides data to the scanner detection module to allow for the detection of a laser scanner. In an example embodiment the scanner detection module comprises application programming interfaces APIs that allow the module to interact and communicate with the application and or camera .

In an example embodiment the camera is able to capture photographs and or video images via the user device . In an example embodiment the captured images are saved in the data storage unit and available for analysis by the scanner detection module .

In an example embodiment the data storage unit and application may be implemented in a secure element or other secure memory not shown on the user device . In another example embodiment the data storage unit may be a separate memory unit resident on the user device . An example data storage unit enables storage of user contact details for retrieval of a user offer system account. In an example embodiment the data storage unit can include any local or remote data storage structure accessible to the user device suitable for storing information. In an example embodiment the data storage unit stores encrypted information such as HTML5 local storage.

An example user device communicates with the detection system . An example detection system comprises an image classifier module . The image classifier module gathers images related to laser scanners and images related to non laser scanners. In an example embodiment the image classifier module gathers multiple perhaps hundreds or thousands of images. The image classifier module analyzes the images and learns to identify features of a laser scanner in operation and to detect image patterns that will aid in the identification of a laser scanner that is trying to scan information from the user device . In an example embodiment the image classifier module creates a scanner detection model. The scanner detection model is an artificial neural network or other form of adaptive system model wherein the image classifier module analyzes data and relationships to find patterns in data. In an example embodiment the model is used to determine whether a laser scanner is present so the user is notified of the potential inability to accurately read the barcode or other information. In an example embodiment this process is an ongoing learning process wherein images are continuously added to the image classifier module and the model is continuously updated. The images and laser scanner detection model are saved in the data storage unit .

In an example embodiment the data storage unit can include any local or remote data storage structure accessible to the detection system suitable for storing information. In an example embodiment the data storage unit stores encrypted information such as HTML5 local storage.

The components of the example operating environment are described hereinafter with reference to the example methods illustrated in . The example methods of may also be performed with other systems and in other environments.

In block a scanner detection model is created by a detection system . In an example embodiment the scanner detection model is an artificial neural network or other form of adaptive system model wherein the model analyzes data and relationships to find patterns in data. An artificial neural network is a computational module that functions to process information such as studying behavior pattern recognition forecasting and data compression. An example scanner detection model may be hardware and software based or purely software based and run in computer models. In an example embodiment the scanner detection model comprises inputs for example images that are multiplied by weights and then computed by a mathematical function to determine the output for example whether or not a laser scanner is detected . Depending on the weights the computation will be different. In an example embodiment an algorithm is used to adjust the weights of the scanner detection model in order to obtain the desired output from the network for example to accurately identify a laser scanner . In an example embodiment the scanner detection model is used to determine whether a laser scanner is present so the user is notified of the potential inability to accurately read barcode information. The method for creating a scanner detection model is described in more detail hereinafter with reference to the methods described in .

In block the detection system gathers images of laser scanners. In an example embodiment a laser scanner produces controlled deflection of laser beams that allows the scanner to read a barcode or other machine readable information. In an example embodiment many laser scanners rely on the reflective properties of paper to accurately read a barcode. The reflective nature of a user device screen makes it difficult for the laser scanner sensor to differentiate the black and white bars of a barcode and accurately read the information. In an example embodiment the detection system gathers multiple perhaps hundreds or thousands of images of laser scanners. In an example embodiment the images are obtained from user devices the Internet merchant systems or other suitable locations. An operator of the detection system may also input images into the detection system or otherwise operate the detection system to capture the images. In an example embodiment the detection system continues to gather images of laser scanners to update the scanner detection model as described herein.

In block the detection system gathers images of non laser scanners. In an example embodiment non laser scanners comprise camera based barcode scanners two dimensional scanners CCD readers CMOS readers LED scanners and other suitable non laser scanners. In an example embodiment non laser scanners are not dependent upon emitting on a single beam of light that follows a specific path between the scanner bar code and the barcode background like laser scanners are. In an example embodiment the detection system gathers multiple perhaps hundreds or thousands of images of non laser scanners. In an example embodiment the images are obtained from user devices the Internet merchant systems or other suitable locations. An operator of the detection system may also input images into the detection system or otherwise operate the detection system to capture the images. In an example embodiment the detection system continues to gather images of non laser scanners to update the scanner detection model as described herein.

In block the detection system analyzes the images gathered in blocks and . In an example embodiment the detection system feeds the images gathered in blocks and into a neural network which has been trained with known images of laser scanners. In this embodiment each image is classified into positive and negative matches for the presence of a laser scanner. The neural network will learn how to classify images into positives and negatives by using a number of images as training data. The features that make a positive or a negative example cannot be determined in advance. The neural network will build it s own model based on the training data that is provided. As more training data is fed into the model it will continuously improve. In another example embodiment each image is analyzed to detect image patters.

In block the detection system learns features of laser scanners and is able to classify them into positive and negative matches of laser scanners. In an example embodiment the detection system creates the scanner detection model. In an example embodiment the detection system produces an algorithm to adjust the weights of the scanner detection model in order to accurately identify a laser scanner.

Returning to in block a user selects an electronic record to be saved on the user device or in the user s detection system account. In an example embodiment the electronic record is an offer voucher boarding pass ticket form of identification or other form of electronic record that comprises a machine readable identifier or barcode to identify the offer and or redemption terms associated therewith. The methods described herein with reference to an offer may be used in connection with any other form of electronic record in other example embodiments.

In an example embodiment offers are created by the merchant system the manufacturer system not shown detection system or another third party system not shown and be distributed by the detection system . In another example embodiment the offers are created by the detection system or third party system not shown on behalf of the merchant system the manufacturer system not shown and or both systems. In another example embodiment the offers are distributed by the merchant system or a third party system not shown .

In an example embodiment the offers may include but are not limited to coupons loyalty points prepaid offers rebates and other forms of value added services. In this embodiment the offers may comprise merchant offers manufacturer offers third party offers and other types of offers. In an example embodiment the offers are for a specific product or group of products. For example the offer may be for 1.00 off Brand A laundry detergent or 1.00 off a Manufacturer X product. These offers may be redeemed at any merchant that accepts manufacturer coupons. In an alternative example embodiment the offers are for a particular merchant. For example the offer may be for 10 off a 50 purchase at Merchant Q. In an alternative example embodiment the offers comprise loyalty reward point redemptions. For example the offer may be for 10 loyalty points for every purchase of a Manufacturer X product.

In an example embodiment the offers comprise details on how the offer can be redeemed and redemption rules. For example the offer may comprise the identification of the item to be purchased such as product title brand information universal product code UPC a stock keeping unit SKU a Japanese article number JAN a world product code WPC International Standard Book Number ISBN European Article Number EAN color size and other relevant sale information.

In an example embodiment each offer will have one or more rules or conditions associated with it. These rule include but are not limited to a purchase threshold for example receive 1.00 off Brand Z laundry detergent that is regularly priced 5.00 or more or 10 single purchase of more than 50 from Merchant X an aggregate purchase threshold for example receive 10 off next purchase from a merchant after the accumulated purchase of Manufacturer B products has reached 100 a minimum number of purchases of an item for example receive 10 off your tenth purchase of Brand Z items a time restriction for example receive 10 off a lunch time purchase a maximum discount for example the merchant system sets 10 off as a maximum and user A gets 1 off while user B gets 2 off and or a location restriction for example receive 10 off a purchase at a specified location . In an example embodiment these rules are set by the merchant system at the time the offer is created and reviewed before the offer is applied. In an alternative example embodiment the offer is a prepaid offer and the redemption rules may include an expiration date. The offer content and discount may be personalized to a particular user. For example user A may receive a 5 off coupon for a particular product or service while user B may receive a 10 off coupon for the same product or service.

The user reviews the offers. In an example embodiment the user device displays the offer in a web browser for the user to review. In an example embodiment the offer is displayed in an offer application resident on the user device . In another example embodiment the offer is displayed in response to an Internet search in an electronic message or text message or as a banner or other advertisement in an Internet browser.

The user selects prepays agrees to pay for prints saves and or interacts with the offer. In an example embodiment the user selects one or more offers distributed by the detection system or by others through the various distribution channels. In an example embodiment the user selects the offer by clicking on it pressing a button to save the offer pressing a button to pay for the offer or by other suitable means to indicate a desire to select pay and or save the offer.

The user can download select scan or otherwise capture the offer and import the offer specifics such as merchant product value redemption rules and other specifics to the user device . In an exemplary embodiment the user may register with a merchant system s loyalty rewards program and offers generated from the loyalty rewards program can be associated with the user device . In an example embodiment the offers are saved on the user device and or in the user s detection system account.

In block the user elects to enable the laser scanner detection feature on the user device . For example the user can input commands into the user device to open an application that operates the laser scanner detection feature or to select an option in an application to enable the laser scanner detection feature. In an example embodiment the user may enable the feature at any time prior to or while accessing the offer to be displayed for scanning In an example embodiment the laser scanner detection feature is an integrated part of an application and the user enables the feature by downloading the application or turning the feature on. In another example embodiment the laser scanner detection feature is an integrated part of the user device operating system and the user enables the feature by turning the feature on or downloading an operating system update.

In block the user accesses the offer by accessing an electronic record that includes the offer details. In an example embodiment the user initiates a purchase transaction with the merchant system to redeem the offer. In an example embodiment the user accesses the offer via the application by inputting commands into the user device to access the offer saved on the user device . In another example embodiment the offer is saved in the user s detection system account and the offer is transmitted to the user device for display when the user inputs an instruction into the user device to access the offer. In this embodiment the user requests access to the offer and the detection system responds by displaying the offer. In another example embodiment the detection system responds by transmitting a notification to the scanner detection module to determine the type of scanner prior to displaying the offer.

In block the offer is displayed on the user device . In an example embodiment the offer comprises a machine readable identifier that identifies the offer and or redemption terms associated with the offer. The POS terminal uses the machine readable identifier to access information regarding the offer for application of the offer to a transaction. In an example embodiment the machine readable identifier is a barcode or other form of one dimensional code. In another example embodiment the machine readable identifier is a QR code or other form of two dimensional code. In yet another example embodiment the machine readable identifier is any code readable by a machine. The methods described herein with reference to a barcode may be used in connection with any other form of machine readable identifier in other example embodiments.

In an example embodiment the barcode is displayed on the user interface to be scanned by the scanner . In another example embodiment the offer is displayed and the user selects a feature that enables the barcode to be displayed. In this embodiment the methods described herein may be performed after the user selects a feature to enable the barcode to be displayed on the user interface . In certain embodiments the barcode is displayed when the user selects the offer. For example the user device displays the barcode either independently of or together with information for the offer when the user accesses the offer.

In block the user device determines whether the scanner that is trying to read the barcode displayed on the user device is a laser scanner. In an example embodiment the user is ready to scan the offer barcode displayed on the user interface of the user device to redeem the offer and the scanner detection module resident on the user device determines whether the scanner is a laser scanner. The method for determining whether a scanner is a laser scanner is described in more detail hereinafter with reference to the methods described in .

In block the scanner detection module turns on the camera resident on the user device . In an example embodiment the scanner detection module has been enabled as previously described with reference to block in and the module is activated when the user accesses the offer as previously described with reference to block in . In this embodiment the scanner detection module turns on the camera to enable the detection of a laser scanner. In another example embodiment the camera is turned on before the barcode is displayed.

In an example embodiment the scanner detection module detects whether to turn on the front facing or back facing camera or both. In one embodiment the scanner detection module comprises a default setting to turn on the front facing camera in other words facing the user interface . In another example embodiment the scanner detection module may perform the methods described in block through using the front facing or back facing camera or both until a scanner is detected or until the user closes the offer record displayed on the user interface .

In block the camera captures multiple images at predefined intervals. In an example embodiment the predefined intervals are predefined by the detection system . In an example embodiment the predefined intervals are every tenth of a second every second or any other predefined interval. In an example embodiment the camera continues to capture images until the scanner is identified as a laser scanner or non laser scanner.

In block the scanner detection module analyzes the images captured in block of . In an example embodiment the captured images are analyzed while additional images are being taken. In an example embodiment the scanner detection module comprises code from the detection system that allows it to identify features of a laser scanner trying to scan information and to detect image patterns that will aid in the identification of the scanner . In an example embodiment the code from the detection system comprises the scanner detection model. In an example embodiment the scanner detection module identifies image features and patterns of the captured images and applies an algorithm to determine whether the scanner is a laser scanner. In an example embodiment the image classifier module has learned features in images that are associated with laser scanners as described previously with reference to . In an example embodiment of block the scanner detection module analyzes images captured by the camera to extract features from those images to compare the extracted features with the features associated with laser scanners and to determine whether the extracted features match or correlate sufficiently with any of the features associated with laser scanners. If the scanner detection module determines that the extracted features match or correlate sufficiently with any of the features associated with laser scanners then the scanner detection module identifies the scanner that is trying to scan the displayed machine readable identifier as a laser scanner. Alternatively If the scanner detection module determines that the extracted features do not match or correlate sufficiently with any of the features associated with laser scanners then the scanner detection module does not identify the scanner that is trying to scan the displayed machine readable identifier as a laser scanner.

In another example embodiment the scanner detection module analyzes the wavelength or color emitted by the scanner . For example the scanner detection module detects the red light emitted by the scanner and classifies the scanner as a laser scanner based on the detection of the color of light emitted. In another example embodiment the scanner detection module analyzes the captured images and identifies specific features to classify the scanner . In this embodiment the specific features have been previously identified by the detection system as indicating the scanner is a laser scanner. For example the scanner detection module will identify whether the captured images contain over a specified percentage of a predefined color such as red.

In block the scanner detection module classifies the scanner as a laser scanner or a non laser scanner based on the results of block . In an example embodiment the scanner detection module classifies the scanner based on the analysis of the captured images and the scanner detection model.

In block the captured images and the classification of the scanner are saved. In an example embodiment the captured images and the classification of the scanner are saved in the data storage unit and transmitted to the detection system as described herein with reference to .

Returning to in block the scanner detection module determines whether the scanner is a laser scanner. In an example embodiment the determination is made based on the classification described in block in .

If the scanner is not a laser scanner the method proceeds to block in . In block the barcode is displayed and scanned by the scanner .

In block the user device displays a message directing the merchant to enter the barcode information into the POS terminal . In an example embodiment the machine readable identifier is removed from the user interface and a message is displayed indicating that the scanner is unable to adequately read the information. In another example embodiment the message can be displayed over or otherwise on the same screen as the machine readable identifier. The user is prompted by the message to tell the merchant to manually enter the code. In an example embodiment the code is a series of numbers letters symbols or a combination thereof that is read from the user interface of the user device and entered into the POS terminal . In an example embodiment the application interprets the machine readable identifier and displays an alpha numeric identification for the offer to facilitate manual entry of the offer information into the POS terminal .

In block the merchant enters the code into the POS terminal . In an example embodiment the code is entered via a keypad not shown or other input mechanism coupled to or otherwise integrated with the POS terminal .

In block the offer is redeemed. For example the POS terminal uses the offer identification obtained from the machine readable identifier or the manual input accesses redemption information associated with the offer based on the identification and applies the offer to current transaction if the transaction meets the redemption terms of the offer. In an example embodiment the user pays any additional balance and the purchase transaction is completed. In an example embodiment the user exits the application and the scanner detection module is inactivated.

In block the scanner detection model is updated. In an example embodiment the scanner detection model is continuously updated. In this embodiment the scanner detection module is continuously updated to reflect the updated model. The method for updating the laser scanner detection model is described in more detail hereinafter with reference to the methods described in .

In block the user device determines whether it has network access. In an example embodiment the captured images and scanner classification are transmitted to the detection system via the network concurrently with the completion of the purchase transaction. In another example embodiment the captured images and scanner classification are transmitted to the detection system via the network at a later time.

In block the captured images and scanner classification are stored until the user device has network access. In an example embodiment the captured images and scanner classification are stored in the data storage unit .

In block the user device transmits the captured images and corresponding scanner classification s to the detection system . In an example embodiment the user device was without network access and transmits all saved images and corresponding scanner classifications. In another example embodiment the user device only transmits the saved images and corresponding scanner classifications that have not been previously transmitted to the detection system .

In block the detection system analyzes the images. In an example embodiment the images are analyzed in a manner consistent with the previously described with reference to block in .

In block the detection system learns features of a laser scanner and detects image patterns. In an example embodiment the detection system updates the scanner detection model based on the images and classification s received from the user device . In this embodiment the detection system modifies the algorithm that adjusts the weights of the scanner detection model in order to accurately identify a laser scanner.

In block the user installs an update for the scanner detection module . In an example embodiment the scanner detection module is updated as part of a user device operating system update. In another example embodiment the scanner detection module is updated as part of an application update. In an example embodiment the user is prompted to install an update on a periodic basis as the scanner detection model is updated.

The computing machine may be implemented as a conventional computer system an embedded controller a laptop a server a mobile device a smartphone a set top box a kiosk a vehicular information system one more processors associated with a television a customized machine any other hardware platform or any combination or multiplicity thereof. The computing machine may be a distributed system configured to function using multiple computing machines interconnected via a data network or bus system.

The processor may be configured to execute code or instructions to perform the operations and functionality described herein manage request flow and address mappings and to perform calculations and generate commands. The processor may be configured to monitor and control the operation of the components in the computing machine . The processor may be a general purpose processor a processor core a multiprocessor a reconfigurable processor a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a graphics processing unit GPU a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components any other processing unit or any combination or multiplicity thereof. The processor may be a single processing unit multiple processing units a single processing core multiple processing cores special purpose processing cores co processors or any combination thereof. According to certain embodiments the processor along with other components of the computing machine may be a virtualized computing machine executing within one or more other computing machines.

The system memory may include non volatile memories such as read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other device capable of storing program instructions or data with or without applied power. The system memory may also include volatile memories such as random access memory RAM static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM and synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM . Other types of RAM also may be used to implement the system memory . The system memory may be implemented using a single memory module or multiple memory modules. While the system memory is depicted as being part of the computing machine one skilled in the art will recognize that the system memory may be separate from the computing machine without departing from the scope of the subject technology. It should also be appreciated that the system memory may include or operate in conjunction with a non volatile storage device such as the storage media .

The storage media may include a hard disk a floppy disk a compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD a Blu ray disc a magnetic tape a flash memory other non volatile memory device a solid state drive SSD any magnetic storage device any optical storage device any electrical storage device any semiconductor storage device any physical based storage device any other data storage device or any combination or multiplicity thereof. The storage media may store one or more operating systems application programs and program modules such as module data or any other information. The storage media may be part of or connected to the computing machine . The storage media may also be part of one or more other computing machines that are in communication with the computing machine such as servers database servers cloud storage network attached storage and so forth.

The module may comprise one or more hardware or software elements configured to facilitate the computing machine with performing the various methods and processing functions presented herein. The module may include one or more sequences of instructions stored as software or firmware in association with the system memory the storage media or both. The storage media may therefore represent examples of machine or computer readable media on which instructions or code may be stored for execution by the processor . Machine or computer readable media may generally refer to any medium or media used to provide instructions to the processor . Such machine or computer readable media associated with the module may comprise a computer software product. It should be appreciated that a computer software product comprising the module may also be associated with one or more processes or methods for delivering the module to the computing machine via the network any signal bearing medium or any other communication or delivery technology. The module may also comprise hardware circuits or information for configuring hardware circuits such as microcode or configuration information for an FPGA or other PLD.

The input output I O interface may be configured to couple to one or more external devices to receive data from the one or more external devices and to send data to the one or more external devices. Such external devices along with the various internal devices may also be known as peripheral devices. The I O interface may include both electrical and physical connections for operably coupling the various peripheral devices to the computing machine or the processor . The I O interface may be configured to communicate data addresses and control signals between the peripheral devices the computing machine or the processor . The I O interface may be configured to implement any standard interface such as small computer system interface SCSI serial attached SCSI SAS fiber channel peripheral component interconnect PCI PCI express PCIe serial bus parallel bus advanced technology attached ATA serial ATA SATA universal serial bus USB Thunderbolt FireWire various video buses and the like. The I O interface may be configured to implement only one interface or bus technology. Alternatively the I O interface may be configured to implement multiple interfaces or bus technologies. The I O interface may be configured as part of all of or to operate in conjunction with the system bus . The I O interface may include one or more buffers for buffering transmissions between one or more external devices internal devices the computing machine or the processor .

The I O interface may couple the computing machine to various input devices including mice touch screens scanners electronic digitizers sensors receivers touchpads trackballs cameras microphones keyboards any other pointing devices or any combinations thereof. The I O interface may couple the computing machine to various output devices including video displays speakers printers projectors tactile feedback devices automation control robotic components actuators motors fans solenoids valves pumps transmitters signal emitters lights and so forth.

The computing machine may operate in a networked environment using logical connections through the network interface to one or more other systems or computing machines across the network . The network may include wide area networks WAN local area networks LAN intranets the Internet wireless access networks wired networks mobile networks telephone networks optical networks or combinations thereof. The network may be packet switched circuit switched of any topology and may use any communication protocol. Communication links within the network may involve various digital or an analog communication media such as fiber optic cables free space optics waveguides electrical conductors wireless links antennas radio frequency communications and so forth.

The processor may be connected to the other elements of the computing machine or the various peripherals discussed herein through the system bus . It should be appreciated that the system bus may be within the processor outside the processor or both. According to some embodiments any of the processor the other elements of the computing machine or the various peripherals discussed herein may be integrated into a single device such as a system on chip SOC system on package SOP or ASIC device.

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity or option to control whether programs or features collect user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by a content server.

Embodiments may comprise a computer program that embodies the functions described and illustrated herein wherein the computer program is implemented in a computer system that comprises instructions stored in a machine readable medium and a processor that executes the instructions. However it should be apparent that there could be many different ways of implementing embodiments in computer programming and the embodiments should not be construed as limited to any one set of computer program instructions. Further a skilled programmer would be able to write such a computer program to implement an embodiment of the disclosed embodiments based on the appended flow charts and associated description in the application text. Therefore disclosure of a particular set of program code instructions is not considered necessary for an adequate understanding of how to make and use embodiments. Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more aspects of embodiments described herein may be performed by hardware software or a combination thereof as may be embodied in one or more computing systems. Moreover any reference to an act being performed by a computer should not be construed as being performed by a single computer as more than one computer may perform the act.

The example embodiments described herein can be used with computer hardware and software that perform the methods and processing functions described herein. The systems methods and procedures described herein can be embodied in a programmable computer computer executable software or digital circuitry. The software can be stored on computer readable media. For example computer readable media can include a floppy disk RAM ROM hard disk removable media flash memory memory stick optical media magneto optical media CD ROM etc. Digital circuitry can include integrated circuits gate arrays building block logic field programmable gate arrays FPGA etc.

The example systems methods and acts described in the embodiments presented previously are illustrative and in alternative embodiments certain acts can be performed in a different order in parallel with one another omitted entirely and or combined between different example embodiments and or certain additional acts can be performed without departing from the scope and spirit of various embodiments. Accordingly such alternative embodiments are included in the invention claimed herein.

Although specific embodiments have been described above in detail the description is merely for purposes of illustration. It should be appreciated therefore that many aspects described above are not intended as required or essential elements unless explicitly stated otherwise. Modifications of and equivalent components or acts corresponding to the disclosed aspects of the example embodiments in addition to those described above can be made by a person of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope of embodiments defined in the following claims the scope of which is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass such modifications and equivalent structures.

