---

title: Estimating restitution curves in an anatomical mapping system
abstract: A method for mapping an anatomical structure includes sensing activation signals of physiological activity with a plurality of electrodes disposed in or near the anatomical structure, each activation signal having an associated cycle length, estimating an action potential duration and diastolic interval for each cycle length, generating a restitution curve based on the estimated action potential duration and diastolic interval from a preceding cycle length, iteratively optimizing each estimated action potential duration and corresponding diastolic interval to maximize a functional relationship between the estimated action potential duration and estimated diastolic interval from preceding cycle length, and generating an action potential duration restitution curve based on the optimized action potential durations and diastolic intervals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09089272&OS=09089272&RS=09089272
owner: Boston Scientific Scimed Inc.
number: 09089272
owner_city: Maple Grove
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131218
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. section 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application 61 748 181 entitled ESTIMATING RESTITUTION CURVES IN AN ANATOMICAL MAPPING SYSTEM filed on Jan. 2 2013 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to cardiac mapping systems. More specifically the present disclosure relates to a cardiac mapping system configured to estimate restitution curves based on recorded activation signals.

Electrical restitution is the relationship between changes in action potential duration with varying diastolic intervals occurring between a first cardiac systole and an extra systole. Restitution reflects the recovery properties of the cardiac tissue with respect to the time of initiation of the extra systole. An electrical restitution curve can be constructed by measuring the action potential duration over a range of diastolic intervals. The curve is initially very steep where short diastolic intervals result in a greater shortening of the action potential durations. After the initially steep portion a plateau is reached as the action potential duration APD reaches a maximum at longer diastolic intervals. The slope of the electrical restitution curve over the entire range of diastolic intervals or the slope of the steepest portion of the curve can be used as a measure of the responsiveness of APD changes to a change in diastolic interval. Increased dispersion of action potential duration and refractoriness is associated with an increased risk of arrhythmias. The shortened action potential duration resulting from the shortened diastolic interval alters the refractoriness of the myocardium which is believed to set up pathways for reentrant depolarizations in a way that greatly enhances susceptibility to fibrillation.

Disclosed herein are various embodiments of a method for mapping anatomical structures from intrinsic cardiac activation signals sensed by a cardiac catheter as well as anatomical mapping systems employing such methods.

In Example 1 a method for mapping an anatomical structure includes sensing activation signals of physiological activity with a plurality of electrodes disposed in or near the anatomical structure each activation signal having an associated cycle length estimating an action potential duration and diastolic interval for each cycle length generating an initial restitution curve based on the estimated action potential duration and diastolic interval from a preceding cycle length iteratively optimizing each estimated action potential duration and corresponding diastolic interval to maximize a functional relationship between the estimated action potential duration and estimated diastolic interval from preceding cycle length and generating a final action potential duration restitution curve based on the optimized action potential durations and diastolic intervals.

In Example 2 the method according to Example 1 wherein the step of estimating an action potential duration and diastolic interval includes randomly partitioning each cycle length to estimate the corresponding action potential duration and diastolic interval.

In Example 3 the method according to either Example 1 or 2 wherein the step of iteratively optimizing each estimated action potential duration and corresponding diastolic interval further includes iteratively optimizing with a first partition resolution and iteratively optimizing with a second partition resolution after optimizing with the first partition resolution wherein the second partition resolution is higher than the first partition resolution.

In Example 4 the method according to any of Examples 1 3 wherein the step of generating the restitution curve includes generating a two dimensional dataset that pairs each estimated action potential duration with the estimated diastolic interval from a preceding cycle length and plotting the two dimensional dataset to generate an initial restitution curve.

In Example 5 the method according to any of Examples 1 4 wherein the step of maximizing the functional relationship includes at least one of maximizing a mutual information between the estimated action potential duration and estimated diastolic interval from preceding cycle length maximizing a maximal information coefficient score the estimated action potential duration and estimated diastolic interval from preceding cycle length and maximizing a distance correlation measure between the estimated action potential duration and estimated diastolic interval from preceding cycle length.

In Example 6 the method according to any of Examples 1 5 the method further includes maximizing a similarity between the generated restitution curve and a predetermined restitution template.

In Example 7 the method according to any of Examples 1 6 wherein the step of maximizing the similarity includes at least one of maximizing a correlation coefficient between the generated restitution curve and the predetermined restitution template and minimizing a mean square error between the generated restitution curve and the predetermined restitution template.

In Example 8 the method according to any of Examples 1 7 wherein the predetermined restitution template corresponds to any one of an exponential function a sigmoidal function and a previously generated optimized restitution curve.

In Example 9 the method according to any of Examples 1 8 wherein the action potential duration restitution curve is generated for each of the plurality of electrodes.

In Example 10 the method according to any of Examples 1 9 wherein the activation signals of physiological activity are sensed in response to a pre determined pacing protocol instituted by at least one of the plurality of electrodes.

In Example 11 the method according to any of Examples 1 10 the method further includes generating an anatomical map of the anatomical structure based on the generated action potential duration restitution curve.

In Example 12 a method for mapping an anatomical structure includes sensing cardiac activation signals with a plurality of electrodes disposed in or near the anatomical structure each activation signal associated with a cycle length partitioning each cycle length into an action potential duration and a diastolic interval generating a restitution dataset such that each data point includes an action potential duration and a directly preceding diastolic interval generating a two dimensional plot of the data points the plot having a predefined grid of discrete grid locations determining a functional association within the restitution dataset adjusting the partition of each cycle length such that each data point is shifted from one grid location to another grid location repeating the adjusting and determining steps to maximize the functional association within the restitution data set and generating an action potential duration restitution curve based on the restitution dataset corresponding to the maximized functional association.

In Example 13 the method according to Examples 12 wherein the functional association includes at least one of maximizing a mutual information between the estimated action potential duration and estimated diastolic interval from preceding cycle length maximizing a maximal information coefficient score the estimated action potential duration and estimated diastolic interval from preceding cycle length and maximizing a distance correlation measure between the estimated action potential duration and estimated diastolic interval from preceding cycle length.

In Example 14 the method according to either of Examples 12 and 13 wherein the functional association is based on maximizing a similarity between the generated restitution curve and a predetermined restitution template.

In Example 15 the method according to any of Examples 12 14 wherein the similarity includes at least one of maximizing a correlation coefficient between the generated restitution curve and the predetermined restitution template and minimizing a mean square error between the generated restitution curve and the predetermined restitution template.

In Example 16 the method according to any of Examples 12 15 wherein the predetermined restitution template corresponds to any one of an exponential function a sigmoidal function and a previously generated optimized restitution curve.

In Example 17 the method according to any of Examples 12 16 wherein after the functional association is maximized the method includes increasing the resolution of the predefined grid and repeating the adjusting and determining steps until the functional association is further increased across the entire restitution data set.

In Example 18 the method according to any of Examples 12 17 wherein the cardiac activation signals are sensed in response to a pre determined pacing protocol instituted by at least one of the plurality of electrodes.

In Example 19 the method according to any of Examples 12 18 wherein the predetermined pacing protocol includes at least one of random pacing pulses with inter pulse intervals sampled from a statistical distribution.

In Example 20 the method according to any of Examples 12 19 the method further including generating a cardiac map based on the generating action potential duration restitution curve.

In Example 21 a method for mapping an anatomical structure includes sensing activation signals of physiological activity with a plurality of electrodes disposed in or near the anatomical structure each activation signal having an associated cycle length generating a function of action potential duration and preceding cycle length partitioning each cycle length into an action potential duration and a diastolic interval based on the generated function and generating an action potential duration restitution curve based on the partitioned action potential duration and a preceding diastolic interval.

In Example 22 the method according to Example 21 wherein the step of generating a function includes generating a histogram of the cycle length of each activation signal based on the preceding cycle length determining a refractory period of a cycle length based on the generated histogram estimating an action potential duration based on the determined refractory period and repeating the steps of generating a histogram determining the refractory period and estimating the action potential duration for a plurality of preceding cycle length.

In Example 23 the method according to either of Examples 20 21 wherein the step of generating a histogram includes determining the range of recorded cycle lengths segmenting the determined range into equidistance bins identifying all triplets of three consecutive activation signals and generating a histogram of cycle lengths for a second and third activation signal for triplets that share a first cycle length bin.

In Example 24 the method according to any of Examples 20 23 wherein the refractory period is determined for all cycle length bins.

In Example 25 the method according to any of Examples 20 24 wherein the step of determining the refractory period includes identifying a region of the generated histogram between zero and a first bin with counts at least equal to a predetermined threshold and determining the refractory period according to the identified region.

In Example 26 the method according to any of Examples 20 25 wherein the estimated action potential duration is the duration of the refractory period.

In Example 27 the method according to any of Examples 20 26 wherein the step of determining the refractory period includes fitting a smoothing function to the generated histogram and identifying as the refractory period a region of the generated histogram between zero and where the smoothing function falls below a predetermined threshold.

In Example 28 the method according to any of Examples 20 27 wherein the smoothing function is a sigmoidal smoothing function.

In Example 29 the method according to any of Examples 20 28 wherein the activation signals of physiological activity are sensed in response to a pre determined pacing protocol instituted by at least one of the plurality of electrodes.

In Example 30 the method according to any of Examples 20 29 the method further includes generating a cardiac map based on the generating action potential duration restitution curve.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

While the invention is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The intention however is not to limit the invention to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The system includes a mapping probe and an ablation probe . In each is separately introduced into the selected heart region through a vein or artery e.g. the femoral vein or artery through suitable percutaneous access. Alternatively the mapping probe and ablation probe can be assembled in an integrated structure for simultaneous introduction and deployment in the heart region .

The mapping probe has a flexible catheter body . The distal end of the catheter body carries a three dimensional multiple electrode structure . In the illustrated embodiment the structure takes the form of a basket defining an open interior space see although other multiple electrode structures could be used wherein the geometry of the electrode structure and electrode locations are known. The multiple electrode structure carries a plurality of mapping electrodes each having an electrode location and channel. Each electrode is configured to sense intrinsic physiological activity in the anatomical region on which the ablation procedure is to be performed. In some embodiments the electrodes are configured to detect activation signals of the intrinsic physiological activity within the anatomical structure e.g. the activation times of cardiac activity.

The electrodes are electrically coupled to a processing system . A signal wire not shown is electrically coupled to each electrode on the basket structure . The wires extend through the body of the probe and electrically couple each electrode to an input of the processing system as will be described later in greater detail. The electrodes sense intrinsic electrical activity in the anatomical region e.g. myocardial tissue. The sensed activity e.g. activation signals is processed by the processing system to assist the physician by generating an anatomical map e.g. action potential duration APD restitution curve or a conduction velocity CV restitution curve to identify the site or sites within the heart appropriate for ablation.

The ablation probe includes a flexible catheter body that carries one or more ablation electrodes . The one or more ablation electrodes are electrically connected to a radio frequency RF generator that is configured to deliver ablation energy to the one or more ablation electrodes . The ablation probe is movable with respect to the anatomical feature to be treated as well as the structure . The ablation probe is positionable between or adjacent to electrodes of the structure as the one or more ablation electrodes are positioned with respect to the tissue to be treated.

The processing system outputs to a display the generated APD map to the physician. In the illustrated embodiment the processing system includes an output display device e.g. a CRT LED display or a printer . The device presents the APD map in a format most useful to the physician. In addition the processing system may generate position identifying output for display on the display device that aids the physician in guiding the ablation electrode s into contact with tissue at the site identified for ablation.

The illustrated three dimensional structure comprises a base member and an end cap between which flexible splines generally extend in a circumferentially spaced relationship. As discussed above the three dimensional structure takes the form of a basket defining an open interior space . In some embodiments the splines are made of a resilient inert material such as Nitinol metal or silicone rubber and are connected between the base member and the end cap in a resilient pretensed condition to bend and conform to the tissue surface they contact. In the illustrated embodiment eight splines form the three dimensional structure . Additional or fewer splines could be used in other embodiments. As illustrated each spline carries eight mapping electrodes . Additional or fewer mapping electrodes could be disposed on each spline in other embodiments of the three dimensional structure . In the illustrated embodiment the three dimensional structure is relatively small e.g. 40 mm or less in diameter . In alternative embodiments the three dimensional structure is larger e.g. 40 mm in diameter or greater .

A slidable sheath is movable along the major axis of the catheter body . Moving the sheath forward i.e. toward the distal end causes the sheath to move over the three dimensional structure thereby collapsing the structure into a compact low profile condition suitable for introduction into an interior space such as for example into the heart. In contrast moving the sheath rearward i.e. toward the proximal end exposes the three dimensional structure allowing the structure to elastically expand and assume the pretensed position illustrated in . Further details of embodiments of the three dimensional structure are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 647 870 entitled Multiple Electrode Support Structures which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A signal wire not shown is electrically coupled to each mapping electrode . The wires extend through the body of the mapping catheter into a handle in which they are coupled to an external connector which may be a multiple pin connector. The connector electrically couples the mapping electrodes to the processing system . Further details on mapping systems and methods for processing signal generated by the mapping catheter are discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 070 094 entitled Systems and Methods for Guiding Movable Electrode Elements within Multiple Electrode Structure U.S. Pat. No. 6 233 491 entitled Cardiac Mapping and Ablation Systems and U.S. Pat. No. 6 735 465 entitled Systems and Processes for Refining a Registered Map of a Body Cavity the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

It is noted that other multi electrode structures could be deployed on the distal end of the mapping catheter . It is further noted that the multiple mapping electrodes may be disposed on more than one structure rather than for example the single mapping catheter illustrated in . For example if mapping within the left atrium with multiple mapping structures an arrangement comprising a coronary sinus catheter carrying multiple mapping electrodes and a basket catheter carrying multiple mapping electrodes positioned in the left atrium may be used. As another example if mapping within the right atrium with multiple mapping structures an arrangement comprising a decapolar catheter carrying multiple mapping electrodes for positioning in the coronary sinus and a loop catheter carrying multiple mapping electrodes for positioning around the tricuspid annulus may be used.

Although the mapping electrodes have been described as being carried by dedicated mapping probes such as the mapping catheter the mapping electrodes may be carried on non mapping dedicated probes or multifunction probes. For example an ablation catheter such as the ablation catheter can be configured to include one or more mapping electrodes disposed on the distal end of the catheter body and coupled to the signal processing system and guidance system . As another example the ablation electrode at the distal end of the ablation catheter may be coupled to the signal processing system to also operate as a mapping electrode.

To illustrate the operation of the system is a schematic side view of an embodiment of the basket structure including a plurality of mapping electrodes . In the illustrated embodiment the basket structure includes 64 mapping electrodes . The mapping electrodes are disposed in groups of eight electrodes labeled 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8 on each of eight splines labeled A B C D E F G and H . While an arrangement of sixty four mapping electrodes is shown disposed on a basket structure the mapping electrodes may alternatively be arranged in different numbers on different structures and or in different positions. In addition multiple basket structures can be deployed in the same or different anatomical structures to simultaneously obtain signals from different anatomical structures.

After the basket structure is positioned adjacent to the anatomical structure to be treated e.g. left atrium left ventricle right atrium or right ventricle of the heart the processing system is configured to record the activation signals from each electrode channel related to physiological activity of the anatomical structure i.e. the electrodes measure electrical activation signals intrinsic to the physiology of the anatomical structure. The activation signals of physiological activity can be sensed in response to intrinsic physiological activity or based on a predetermined pacing protocol instituted by at least one of the plurality of electrodes . The processing system can be configured to determine a restitution curve based on a mutual information correlation between a previous diastolic interval pDI and an action potential duration and similarly between a previous diastolic interval and a conduction velocity of the anatomical structure. Alternatively the processing system can be configured to determine a restitution curve using a histogram based on a correlation between an action potential duration and a previous diastolic interval pDI . A restitution curve can be useful for a physician when trying to identify or characterize a cardiac pathology e.g. cardiac arrhythmia.

As illustrated in a restitution curve is a plot of the variation of APD with respect to pDI or CL and is important in understanding cardiac pathologies such as aberrant signal conduction and or fibrillation. Restitution curves can also be used to guide the insertion of action potential waveforms into activation signals to visualize activation signal propagation. An APD restitution curve is typically measured over a range of diastolic intervals and plotted to resemble or correspond to an exponential curve. Conventionally to measure the APD for each corresponding DI the DI is set constant via a cardiac pacing protocol to artificially generate the various Drs.

In some embodiments the processing system is configured to determine an APD restitution curve based on a functional relationship or association between the APD and pDI of the acquired action potentials. After the activation signals are recorded the processing system determines the cycle length of each activation signal and estimates the APD and DI for each cycle length. The initial estimate of APD and DI for each cycle length can be random or based on a priori information such as a pre determined restitution template or a previously determined restitution curve. The processing system generates a two dimensional restitution data set which pairs each estimated APD with an estimated pDI i.e. an estimated DI from the directly preceding activation signal. The restitution dataset is plotted on two dimensional coordinate plane to generate an initial restitution curve as illustrated in where the x axis is the pDI in milliseconds and the y axis is the APD in milliseconds and thus each point on the restitution curve will be in the form of pDI APD . Since the initial restitution curve is based on the initial restitution dataset of estimated and or arbitrarily chosen APD s and DI s the initial restitution curve may not resemble the exponential curve illustrated in . However if a priori knowledge is applied when estimating the initial APD and DI for each CL the initial restitution curve may resemble an exponential curve typically characteristic of an APD restitution curve.

The processing system determines a functional association between the two dimensions i.e. the APD and the pDI of the restitution data set. The functional association may include maximizing at least one of a mutual information maximal information coefficient and a distance correlation between the estimated action potential duration and the estimated diastolic interval from the preceding cycle length. Since the actual APD and DI for each CL of the recorded activation signals are unknown the processing system can estimate APD and DI using an iterative functional association. For example the processing system makes iterative changes to optimize initial restitution dataset set until the functional association i.e. a mutual information maximal information coefficient and a distance correlation is maximized at which point the resultant APD restitution curve from the optimized restitution dataset should resemble the illustrated exponential plot of .

A mutual information correlation quantifies the association or dependency between two variables i.e. APD and pDI without any assumption of functional form of the relationship between them. A maximal information coefficient is a measure of the strength of a linear or non linear association between two variables X and Y i.e. APD and pDI. Distance correlation is a measure of statistical dependence between two random variables or two random vectors i.e. APD and pDI of arbitrary not necessarily equal dimension and is usually derived from distance variance distance standard deviation and distance covariance.

To optimize the initial restitution dataset according to a functional association the processing system segments the initial restitution curve into a grid having a plurality of grid locations as illustrated in and an initial functional association is determined. The processing system selects a grid location and moves the points from the selected grid location to each one of the six neighboring grid locations. Since a point of the restitution curve is represented by pDI APD to move a point on the restitution curve the processing system adjusts at least one of the estimated APD and pDI corresponding to that point such that the point is located in one of the neighboring grid locations. After the points are relocated to a neighboring grid location the functional association is determined. If a positive change in the functional association is observed between the previous and current functional association the changes are updated in the restitution dataset. In this manner points within each grid location are relocated to neighboring grid location until the functional association at all grid locations for all grid relocations is maximized. The resultant restitution data set is an optimized restitution dataset consisting of optimized APD and pDI values.

In some embodiments to further optimize the restitution dataset and the corresponding estimated APD and pDI values the resolution of the grid is increased as illustrated in from a coarser resolution to a finer resolution and the iterative process of relocating points from one grid location to a neighboring grid location until the functional association is further maximized. For example at a selected grid location the processing system relocates the points of the restitution dataset that lie within in the selected grid location to any one of the eight neighboring grid locations by adjusting the APD and pDI values associated with that point. A functional association is determined and then compared to the previous functional association. If a positive change in the functional association is observed the changes are update in the restitution dataset. This process is repeated at each grid location for each corresponding neighboring grid location until the functional association is maximized.

In some embodiments the restitution dataset is generated from a selected set of electrodes of the plurality of electrodes. The restitution dataset is optimized according to a functional association as previously described. The resultant optimized APD restitution curve is set as a predetermined restitution template and used as previously mentioned a priori knowledge for generating an optimized restitution dataset for a neighboring set of electrodes.

The a priori information can be used to maximize a similarity between the generated restitution data set and the pre determined restitution template. The similarity may include maximizing a correlation coefficient between the generated restitution curve and the predetermined restitution template or maximizing a mean square error between the generated restitution curve and the predetermined restitution template. The restitution template may include any one of a previously generated restitution template of the same patient or a different patient a restitution curve generated from an adjacent or neighboring set of electrodes during the same study a rising exponential function and a sigmoidal function.

In some embodiments the processing system is configured to determine a restitution curve based on a function of action potential duration and preceding cycle length. For example the function may be a histogram correlation between an action potential duration APD and a previous cycle length pCL . A typical histogram of a paced or sinus CL s is expected to be narrow as illustrated in . However a CL histogram during atrial fibrillation or a random pacing protocol can be wide as illustrated in . Given sufficient activation signal recordings the lower tail of the histogram converges to zero due to a refractory period . The refractory period is a time interval after an action potential during which a new action potential cannot be elicited. This refractory period can be used to estimate the APD of each cycle length from which the corresponding DI and pDI can be estimated to generate an APD restitution curve of the recorded activation signals.

The processing system senses the activation signals from the plurality of electrodes and determines a cycle length CL for each activation signal. The activation signals of physiological activity can be sensed in response to intrinsic physiological activity or based on a predetermined pacing protocol instituted by at least one of the plurality of electrodes . A histogram of the determined CL s is generated based on the preceding cycle length. The processing system determines the range of all CL s and segments the range into equidistance bins. For example if the determined range is 110 millisecond ms to 500 ms the processing system may generate bins of 5 ms intervals such as 110 115 ms 115 120 ms 120 125 ms etc. However this interval length can be shorter or longer. As previously described an APD is dependent on the directly preceding DI or pDI. The processing system identifies all sets of three consecutive activation signals and generates a histogram of cycle lengths for the second two activation signals for all triplets that share the same first cycle length bin. For example for all triplets with a first cycle length that falls within the 110 ms 115 ms bin the cycle length between second and third activation signals are histogrammed. The processing system is configured to filter noise and outliers from the generated histograms with a smooth function such as for example a sigmoidal smoothing function.

The refractory period is estimated based on the generated histograms. A region within the generated histograms between zero and a first bin with counts at least equal to a predetermined threshold is identified as the refractory period . The predetermined threshold count may be zero or a relative threshold based on a percentage of the count. The refractory period is determined for all cycle length bins. The action potential duration for each bin is estimated according to the corresponding refractory period and may be set to be duration of the corresponding refractory period.

For all previous cycle length pCL bins i.e. 115 120 msec 120 125 msec etc. the process of generating a histogram determining a refractory period from the generated histogram and estimating the APD from the determined refractory period is repeated to obtain a plurality of APD pCL data points i.e. for all bins. The data points can be plotted to generate a function of APD and previous cycle length. For example an APD vs. pCL curve can be generated according to the determined APD for each pCL bin. The processing system partitions each determined CL into an APD and DI according to this function. The resultant APD s can be plotted against their corresponding preceding diastolic intervals to generate a restitution curve for the partitioned CL s.

Various modifications and additions can be made to the exemplary embodiments discussed without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example while the embodiments described above refer to particular features the scope of this invention also includes embodiments having different combinations of features and embodiments that do not include all of the described features. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations as fall within the scope of the claims together with all equivalents thereof.

