---

title: Apparatus and method for managing user chat experiences with businesses
abstract: A computer-implemented method of managing a chat experience of a user desiring to chat with a selected one of a plurality of businesses or chat hosts utilizes in various aspects a chat management server running computer processes for communicating with user devices. In another aspect, a computer-implemented method of providing a chat experience to a user having a user device and desiring to chat with a selected one of a plurality of businesses utilizes computer processes running on the user device. Corresponding embodiments similarly provide an apparatus performing any of the foregoing methods. Other corresponding embodiments similarly provide a computer readable medium storing instructions, which when loaded into a computer, perform processes corresponding to any of the foregoing methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08965976&OS=08965976&RS=08965976
owner: Getabl Inc.
number: 08965976
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
The present invention relates to electronic messaging and more particularly to apparatus and methods for managing user chat experiences with businesses.

It is known in the prior art to make a chat session available to a user having a computer open to a web page of a company so that the user may contact the company about its goods or services. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 861 176. Other kinds of chat servers host video chat and location based chat among individual users. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 379 087 and published application number 2003 0037110.

In a first embodiment of the invention there is provided a computer implemented method of managing a chat experience of a user desiring to chat with a selected one of a plurality of businesses. The method utilizes a chat management server running computer processes and these processes include 

In a related embodiment the computer processes further include associating a duration for the channel and if the chat channel has not been previously closed by a party to the chat then closing the chat channel effective as of the end of the duration. Optionally the duration is established according to a user specified default.

In another related embodiment the request message originated by the user on the device to enter the chat channel has been issued responsive to a user selection made graphically on a display of the device of the set of businesses or chat hosts. Optionally the data characterizing criteria for a business or chat hosts with which the user seeks to chat have resulted from a search initiated by the user. As a further option the search has resulted by user selection of one of a set of pre defined categories. Alternatively the data characterizing criteria for a business or chat host with which the user seeks to chat have resulted from selection by the user to cause display of favorites saved by the user. Also alternatively the data characterizing criteria for a business or chat host with which the user seeks to chat have resulted from selection by the user to cause display of businesses or chat hosts recently accessed by the user for purposes of chat.

In another related embodiment the computer processes further include responsive to the request message determining a pattern for the chat channel for message routing to seats of the selected business based on availability status data for the selected business and business rules provided by the selected business. Optionally the pattern includes routing all messages from the user to the same seat. Optionally the pattern includes routing successive messages from the user to the next available seat that is not busy. Optionally the pattern includes routing all messages from the user to a plurality of seats simultaneously. In a further related embodiment i business rules provided by the selected business specify a plurality of seat types ii the availability data includes information enabling a user to make a selection corresponding to a specific seat type iii the request message includes data indicative of the seat type corresponding to the selection made by the user and iv subscribing the user device to the chat channel includes subscribing the user device in a manner consistent with the specific seat type.

In another related embodiment the computer processes further include receiving in the search signal data indicating an approximate location of the device and transmitting availability data includes transmitting availability data for businesses based at least in part on the approximate location.

In another related embodiment the computer processes further include storing chat content of the chat channel and archiving the content in a chat database in association with an identifier for the selected business or chat host and for the user. Optionally the computer processes further include storing in the chat database chat metadata with the chat content. Optionally the computer processes further include storing in the chat database data relating to an unsuccessful attempt by the user to initiate chat with one of the plurality of businesses or chat hosts. Optionally the computer processes further include running a computerized analysis of the chat database to identify chat performance measurements for any given business or chat host including at least one of a what fraction of user requests to chat were followed by a response b average time to first response per request c average time to response after the first response per request d average number of responses provided in a given chat session and e what percentage of chat responses were made within a specified period of time.

In another related embodiment identifying the set of businesses or chat hosts meeting the criteria includes determining from stored data whether the user is authorized by any given business or chat host meeting the criteria and if so including the given business or chat host in the set of businesses chat hosts and otherwise excluding the given business or chat host from the set of businesses or chat hosts.

In another related embodiment wherein the selected one of the set of businesses or chat hosts is a selected business the computer processes further include prior to subscribing the user device to the chat channel for the selected one of the set of businesses determining whether the selected one of the set of businesses requires further authorization by the business to enable the user to chat and if so i transmitting to the device over the first network data establishing a form to be displayed on the device configured to receive user supplied information establishing entitlement of the user to chat ii receiving from the device such information iii processing such information and only if authorization is determined as a result of such information allowing the subscribing of the user device to the chat channel.

In another related embodiment the computer processes further include prior to receiving a search signal receiving over the first network from the user s device a request and credentials for authentication of the user determining if the credentials are valid and if so logging in the user device. Optionally the user has at least one additional device and the method further includes 

Optionally the computer processes further include repeating each of the foregoing processes at least once so as to subscribe the user device to at least one additional chat channel for another business selected by the user so that the user device may be simultaneously subscribed to a plurality of chat channels. Optionally when the user has at least one additional device the method further includes receiving over a second network from the at least one additional device a further request and further credentials for authentication of the user determining if the further credentials are valid and if so logging in the at least one additional user device and subscribing the at least one additional device to the plurality of chat channels.

In another related embodiment the computer processes further include receiving a forward chat message from the user over the first network and responsive to the forward chat message forwarding to the user at a secondary electronic destination in accordance with user established settings chat messages addressed to the user from the selected one of the set of businesses or chat hosts and forwarding to the selected one of the set of businesses or chat hosts each message from the user originating from the secondary electronic destination in response to a forwarded message from the selected one of the set of businesses or chat hosts. Optionally the user established settings specify forwarding to occur at all times when forwarding is in effect. Alternatively the user established settings specify forwarding to occur only when the user device is not in communication with the server.

In another related embodiment the computer processes further include upon subscribing the user device to the chat channel identifying the user in accordance with criteria established by the user. Optionally the criteria are global and apply to all businesses with which the user engages in chat. Alternatively the criteria are specified by the user as applicable to the selected one of the businesses.

In yet another related embodiment the computer processes further include receiving from a business user in one of the seats of the selected business that is subscribed to the chat channel a transfer request message to transfer the user to chat with a different seat of the selected business and responsive to the transfer request message transferring the user device to chat with the different seat of the selected business. Alternatively the computer processes further include receiving from a business user in one of the seats of the selected business that is subscribed to the chat channel a join request message to add to the chat channel at least one additional business user from the selected business and responsive to the join request message subscribing to the chat channel the at least one additional business user.

In another related embodiment the computer processes further include running an installed application of the selected business in accordance with business rules specified by the selected business after the user has been subscribed to the chat channel. Optionally running the installed application occurs automatically immediately after the user has been subscribed to the chat channel. Alternatively running the installed application occurs when a business user of the selected business manually invokes the installed application. Alternatively running the installed application occurs when triggered automatically by a response by the user in the course of chat.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a computer implemented method of managing a chat experience of a business user desiring to chat with a selected one of a plurality of other users. the method utilizes a chat management server running computer processes that include 

In a related embodiment identifying the set of users meeting the criteria includes excluding from the set any user who has not authorized receiving chat from the business of the business user so that such user is not displayed on the business user s device. In a further related embodiment of managing a chat experience of a given business user desiring to chat with a selected one of a plurality of other business users in the same business as the given business user the set of users corresponds to at least some of other business users in the same business. Optionally the data characterizing criteria for another user with whom the business user seeks to chat have resulted from a search initiated by the business user. Optionally the search has resulted by business user selection of one of a set of pre defined categories. Alternatively the data characterizing criteria for a another user with whom the business user seeks to chat have resulted from selection by the business user to cause display of favorites saved by the business user. Alternatively the data characterizing criteria for a another user with whom the business user seeks to chat have resulted from selection by the business user to cause display of users recently accessed by the business user for purposes of chat.

In a further related embodiment the computer processes further include associating a duration for the channel and if the chat channel has not been previously closed by a party to the chat then closing the chat channel effective as of the end of the duration.

In a further related embodiment the computer processes further include prior to receiving a search signal receiving over the first network from the business user s device a request and credentials for authentication of the business user determining if the credentials are valid and if so logging in the business user device. In a further related embodiment the business user has at least one additional device and the method further includes receiving over a second network from the at least one additional device a further request and further credentials for authentication of the business user determining if the further credentials are valid and if so logging in the at least one additional device and subscribing the at least one additional device to the chat channel. As a further option the computer processes further include repeating each of the foregoing processes at least once so as to subscribe the business user device to at least one additional chat channel for another user selected by the business user so that the business user device may be simultaneously subscribed to a plurality of chat channels.

In a further related embodiment the user has at least one additional device and the method further includes receiving over a second network from the at least one additional device a further request and further credentials for authentication of the business user determining if the further credentials are valid and if so logging in the at least one additional business user device and subscribing the at least one additional device to the plurality of chat channels.

Corresponding embodiments similarly provide an apparatus performing any of the foregoing methods. Other corresponding embodiments similarly provide a computer readable medium storing instructions which when loaded into a computer perform processes corresponding to any of the foregoing methods.

In another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method of providing a chat experience to a user having a user device and desiring to chat with a selected one of a plurality of businesses. In this embodiment the method utilizes computer processes running on the user device. The processes include 

In another embodiment the invention provides a non transitory computer readable medium encoded with instructions which when loaded into a user device establish processes for providing a chat experience to a user having the user device and desiring to chat with a selected one of a plurality of businesses. The processes include 

As used in this description and the accompanying claims the following terms shall have the meanings indicated unless the context otherwise requires 

 Chat means asynchronous interactive digital communication between two endpoints using at least one of text video voice audio and data files.

 Availability status data means whether a chat channel has been opened for the business and optionally a rating of the responsiveness of the business and optionally taking into account business rules established by the business. Availability status data may indicate status options including at least a plurality of the following away off busy online and open to receive messages even though not available for immediate chat . Two parties to chat need not necessarily be online simultaneously in order for a chat channel to be opened for the parties.

A user is an individual who has an account with a system in accordance with an embodiment hereof for managing chat.

A business user is a user as defined herein who is registered as a user affiliated with a claimed business .

A chat channel is a communication path between a user and a seat in a business selected by the user for engaging in chat. Each claimed business has at least one chat channel and a claimed business may define a plurality of channels wherein each channel can be assigned to a category of communication with the business. Moreover each channel can be provided with a label that is visible to a user so that the user can select a desired channel of the claimed business over which to engage in chat.

A chat session is a specific connection between at least one user who has been subscribed to a chat channel and at least one seat operator of the claimed business.

A seat is a chat node that can be staffed by an individual or robot sometimes herein called an installed application representing a given business in chat. Accordingly when a user seeks to chat with a business having a plurality of seats it is possible for the chat management server to subscribe the user to chat with a seat of the business that is not currently engaged in chat or which currently has sufficient capacity to engage in chat with the user assuming of course that the seat is being occupied by an individual representing the business in chat .

A seat is busy if the number of concurrent chat sessions associated with the seat reaches a pre specified threshold.

A chat host is an individual or group for which there has been established a personal account to host chat and for which there is at least one assigned seat.

A computer process is the performance of a described function in a computer using computer hardware such as a processor field programmable gate array or other electronic combinatorial logic or similar device which may be operating under control of software or firmware or a combination of any of these or operating outside control of any of the foregoing. All or part of the described function may be performed by active or passive electronic components such as transistors or resistors. In using the term computer process we do not necessarily require a schedulable entity or operation of a computer program or a part thereof although in some embodiments a computer process may be implemented by such a schedulable entity or operation of a computer program or a part thereof. Furthermore unless the context otherwise requires a process may be implemented using more than one processor or more than one single or multi processor computer.

A user device is a computer that is used by a user and implemented as a desktop unit a laptop unit a tablet a smartphone or as any other computer having access to a network.

A search signal is a signal originating from a user device to indicate that the user device is running a process configured to support a chat session managed in accordance with embodiments described herein and it includes data characterizing criteria for a business with which the user seeks to chat.

When a device of a particular user is logged in the device is authorized by the chat management server to send communications from and receive communications to the particular user.

An installed application is an application provided by a claimed business that is configured to run under conditions established by the business after a user has been subscribed to a chat channel in order to provide to provide communication functionality between the business and the user that is enhanced in comparison to simple chat. The application may be stored on the chat management server or on a server of the business.

 Business administrator is a role assigned to a business user affiliated with a claimed business in which the business user is empowered by the chat management server to configure chat management settings pertinent to the claimed business.

 Location administrator is a role assigned to a business user affiliated with a claimed business as to a specific location of the claimed business in which the business user is empowered by the chat management server to configure chat management settings pertinent to the claimed business solely with respect to the specific location.

 Business operator is a role assigned to a business user affiliated with a claimed business in which the business user is not empowered by the chat management server to configure chat management settings for any other business user.

 Chat metadata is data characterizing chat activity on the chat management server other than the specific content of the chat itself.

 RESTful a set of architectural principles that govern operation of an application programming interface API for the chat management server described herein. These principles define structures that pertain to communication between clients and servers and are applicable among other things to how resource states are addressed and transferred over HTTP by a wide range of clients written in different languages.

In process of responsive to the search signal the server identifies a set of businesses meeting the criteria and for each business in the set of businesses the server determines availability status data for each location. In process the server transmits to the device availability status data for the set of businesses for display on the user s device. In process of the server receives over the first network a request message originated by the user on the device to enter a chat channel established for a selected one of the set of businesses. In process responsive to the request message the server subscribes the user device to the chat channel for the selected one of the set of businesses and in process the server transmits to the device over the first network a launch chat command.

As we show in further detail below although the processes have been described in connection with a single business with which the user of the device wishes to chat embodiments herein support chatting of the user with a plurality of businesses. Also although the processes have been described in connection with a single user device embodiments herein support making chat history and further chat available to the user simultaneously on a plurality of devices. Of course the processes illustrated with respect to a given user can be replicated with any number of other users who would use their own devices for engaging in chat with businesses of their own selection.

In various embodiments of the present invention when a user seeks to enter into chat with a business the business may itself have established a structure for handling chat of various different types. For example the business may assign one set of seats to handling chat relating to product returns another set of seats to handling technical questions concerning product usage and another set of seats to handle order inquiries. Each set of seats is a different type of seat. Each different type of seat we call in this description and in the accompanying claims a channel . Embodiments of the present invention therefore accommodate a plurality of seat types that is a plurality of channels that can be assigned and configured by the business namely by the business administrator according to its own needs. Moreover the user need not be presented with a monolithic icon representing the entire business for purposes of chat. Instead the business may choose to have the user experience a different icon for each channel in other words the user may press one icon to chat with the business about a product return another icon to chat with the business about technical questions concerning product usage and yet another icon to chat with the business about an order inquiry. Moreover when a user seeks to review chat history discussed below for example in connection with the chat history will reflect the user s chat experience for the channel as opposed to simply chat with a given business operator and the chat history will also show the name of the business operator in each chat session.

Returning now to in process the server receives a request message from a user device to enter a chat channel for a selected business and a seat type selected by the user. In process responsive to the request message the server determines the logical status for each seat operator that is determines whether an individual representing the business is currently occupying each seat. In process the server determines physical availability status and device status for the user s device. In process the server selects one operator from a list of available operators using a suitable algorithm such as round robin or first come first served. If an operator is available then in process the server subscribes the user device to a chat channel for the selected business and the user.

In another case in in process the business is currently offline and the availability data already sent in process has notified the user that the business is currently offline. Depending on settings established by the business the user may be given an opportunity to select between either having the user s device currently subscribed to a chat channel or being notified when the business has come back online and in process the server carries out processes consistent with the user s selection. Similarly in another case in process the business is currently busy and the availability data already sent in process has notified the user that the business is currently busy. Depending on settings established by the business the user may be given an opportunity to select between either having the user s device currently subscribed to a chat channel or being notified when the business has come back online and in process the server carries out processes consistent with the user s selection.

Referring to if the user opts to designate other representatives for handling chat sessions the user can input their contact information. In this embodiment the user inputs the representatives e mail addresses though alternative embodiments may receive other communication handles such as mobile phone numbers that accept SMS messages. The user may configure the algorithm for selecting the representative to service the chat session. In various embodiments the user may configure the chat channel to establish new chat sessions on a round robin basis. In some embodiments the chat channel may broadcast a message regarding a chat request and establish the chat session with the first representative who responds. In further embodiments the chat channel creates a chat session connecting the chat requester with all of the representatives or all of the available representatives.

Referring to if the user opts to designate a robot to handle chat sessions the user can select a robot to configure. In some embodiments the user can select a robot tailored to an existing service. In some embodiments the user can configure a customized robot to service chat.

The embodiments of the invention described above are intended to be merely exemplary numerous variations and modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art. All such variations and modifications are intended to be within the scope of the present invention as defined in any appended claims.

