---

title: Dynamic network configuration based on passive location analytics
abstract: Passive location estimation of mobile devices within a wireless network is provided. The passive location estimation is determined based on one or more measurements that are received from the mobile device and/or from one or more network elements. At least a portion of the passive information can be received in user plane data associated with an application executing on the mobile device. A measurement set for the mobile device can be defined and can be used to build fingerprints of geographical cellular measurements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591603&OS=09591603&RS=09591603
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09591603
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131210
---
The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and also generally to dynamic network configuration based on passive location analytics.

Wide adoption of mobile devices along with ubiquitous cellular data coverage has resulted in an explosive growth of mobile applications that expect always accessible wireless networking. This explosion has placed strains on resources that are scarce in the mobile world. On the user side dropped calls and poor communication have been blamed for user dissatisfaction. On the network side instances of dropped calls and poor communication can occur due to variations in coverage capacity and performance as well as inaccuracies associated with determining the location where the coverage capacity and performance has degraded.

Aspects of the subject disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. However the subject disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein.

Various aspects discussed herein relate to a hybrid approach for passive user equipment localization for wireless networks using various information and measurements that are obtained passively from user equipment devices. Passive user equipment localization is distinguishable from active equipment localization based on the involvement of the user equipment device. According to passive equipment localization as discussed herein one or more network devices collect measurements and associated time stamp information from certain user equipment devices within the network and perform the localization. The user equipment device s are just sending measurements but as discussed herein there is no user equipment device and or user intervention. Instead the network monitors and collects the data. In contrast active location estimation approaches use a trigger from the network side. For example a network device might send a command to the user equipment device and the user equipment device performs the localization interacts with one or more network devices or network elements and feeds back the location estimate to the network device that requested the measurement information.

The information received from the user equipment device according to an aspect can include timing advance values and global positioning system GPS measurements. A timing advance value relates to the length of time it takes for a signal to travel from a user equipment device to a base station e.g. over an uplink . The passive user equipment localization can be determined based on information and or various measurements that are received from the user equipment device for other reasons e.g. call handling mobility handling radio resource handing or various other wireless network operations . Since this information and or measurements are being reported for other purposes the information and or measurements can be leveraged and used to perform the user equipment localization with minimal if any impact to the user equipment device.

In wireless communications networks for customers that report service issues it is important to determine the location where the service issue was observed. Therefore the location information should be as accurate as possible. However the quality of current passive location estimate approaches for wireless communications networks is too poor to meet the requirements for operators and others to perform good radio network coverage and capacity optimization. Currently network operators passively calculate the user equipment device locations for all user equipment devices in all places within the network. However such approaches do not scale to all user equipment devices at the same time.

The disclosed aspects generally relate to locating network equipment e.g. user equipment devices for the purpose of network management and or for providing network services. Further the disclosed aspects relate to measuring a spatial relationship of a user equipment device with respect to one or more reference points. More specifically the disclosed aspects relate to a hybrid approach for passive user equipment device location estimation e.g. determining a position of the user equipment device for a wireless communications network using cellular uplink timing advance and GPS measurements.

In an embodiment a measurement set is defined as a set of measurements from the user equipment device which can include GPS measurements including latitude longitude altitude and or speed. On the cellular network side timing advance measurements and reference signal received power reference signal received quality RSRP RSRQ measurements are obtained from the serving cell and the neighboring cell s . Each measurement set can be associated with the appropriate mobile device and a measurement window e.g. a defined amount of time . A complete reference measurement set includes timing advance measurements RSRP RSRQ measurements and GPS measurements. A partial reference measurement set includes at least GPS measurements if no other measurements are available. The available complete and partial reference measurement sets can be utilized to build fingerprints of geographical cellular measurements.

According to an embodiment to calculate a user equipment device timestamp location that does not fall into any reference measurement set when the user equipment device is radio resource control RCC connected a shorted weighted Euclidean distance estimate can be used to estimate the user equipment device location. The weights are on timing advance measurements and RSRP RSRQ measurements. The GPS location of a reference measurement set that has the shortest weighted Euclidean distance to the non reference measurement set can be used as the estimate of the user equipment device s location.

In another embodiment if the user equipment device is performing a handover and there is no reference measurement set or reference fingerprint that can be used a timing advance measurement and handover based approach can be used to estimate the user equipment device location. For example when the user equipment device is moving left to right during a handover the left cell reports the user equipment device s timing advance measurements before the handover and the right cell reports the user equipment device s timing advance measurements after the handover. The distance of the user equipment device to the left cell Dl is calculated from the last timing advance left cell measurements for the user equipment device. The distance of the user equipment device to the right cell Dr is calculated from the first timing advance right cell measurements for the user equipment device. The distance between the two cells is defined as D . A calculated relationship between Dl Dr and D can result in determining the user equipment device is located on a line between the antennas of the two cells and at what distance from the left cell antenna. In other cases the relationship indicates that the user equipment device is located on one of two intersection locations. In this case the RSRP RSRQ measurements can be used to determine which intersection of the two intersections is the more likely location. If needed the timing advance measurements before and after the handover can be used to calculate an estimated azimuth.

Further the disclosed aspects can be configured to perform the location estimation with a relatively high accuracy level. For example the location estimation utilizes GPS report s from the user equipment device s when the GPS is available. Additionally or alternatively the location estimation utilizes timing advance reports from the user equipment device s during handover when the timing advance reports are available.

The disclosed aspects are also adaptive. For example measurements from the user equipment device s can be used to build a reference basis e.g. for historical measurement purposes . When there are conditions occurring that change a nearby reference e.g. an engineering change the disclosed location estimates can still perform accurately without making changes. Further the disclosed aspects are scalable since no global convergence is necessary. Additionally fast response for the location estimate can be achieved since there is no global convergence necessary.

System includes at least one memory e.g. a memory device that can store computer executable components and instructions. System can also include at least one processor e.g. a processor device communicatively coupled to the at least one memory . Coupling can include various communications including but not limited to direct communications indirect communications wired communications and or wireless communications. The at least one processor can execute or facilitate execution of the computer executable components stored in the at least one memory . The at least one processor can be directly involved in the execution of the computer executable component s according to an aspect. Additionally or alternatively the at least one processor can be indirectly involved in the execution of the computer executable component s . For example the at least one processor can direct one or more components to perform the operations.

It is noted that although one or more computer executable components may be described herein and illustrated as components separate from the at least one memory e.g. operatively connected to memory in accordance with various embodiments the one or more computer executable components could be stored in the at least one memory . Further while various components have been illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that multiple components can be implemented as a single component or a single component can be implemented as multiple components without departing from example embodiments.

System also includes a receiver component that can be configured to receive passive information from a user equipment device e.g. mobile device . For example while an active session is executing on the user equipment device the active session might transmit various information and or measurements that can be utilized by system for location estimation of the user equipment device. The information and or measurements can be various types of information and or measurements that are necessary for call handling mobility handling radio resource handling and various other normal or standard communication operations. Since this information and or measurements are reported to the network to support other functionalities this information and or measurements can be leveraged for the location estimation without any impact to the user equipment device. Further the user equipment devices do not need to be aware that the information and or measurements are used for location estimation purposes.

In accordance with one or more implementations users can opt out of providing personal information demographic information location information proprietary information sensitive information or the like in connection with data gathering aspects. Moreover one or more implementations described herein can provide for anonymizing collected received or transmitted data.

The information and or measurements received from the user equipment device can be associated with respect time stamps. For example when a GPS measurement is received the corresponding time e.g. date time of day day of week and so on can also be received. The time stamp information can be embedded or in another manner associated with the GPS measurement. In another example a timing advance measurement can be received from the user equipment device and associated with e.g. include embedded data related to time stamp information.

A location estimation manager component can be configured to estimate the location of the user equipment devices based at least in part on the received information and or estimates. According to an implementation based on a first measurement being included in the set of measurements the location of the user equipment device is estimated based on a timing advance measurement . According to another implementation based on a first measurement being included in the set of measurements a measurement set for the location of the user equipment device can be generated. Further details related to these location estimates will be provided below.

In order to improve user experience and network performance wireless network operators passively calculate the location of each user equipment device or as many user equipment devices as possible in the network at all places or as many places as possible . For example in 3GPP standardization active on demand query of certain user equipment device s location is supported and defined whenever a particular user equipment device is in the wireless network e.g. LTE UMTS CDMA2000 GSM and so on . The workflow for these on demand query approaches includes inputting an identification of the user equipment device into the network. This triggers a series of operation and message exchanges among network elements until the location result for the user equipment device is reported back to the requesting entity. However this approach does not scale to all the user equipment devices at the same or substantially the same time.

For a network operator to perform meaningful radio network coverage and capacity optimization a drive test can be conducted to measure the signal strength and interference at different locations around the network. This can be used for networks that are in the planning stages and that will be commercially launched and or for optimization of an existing cell site. This can be used to ensure the service quality e.g. accessibility and retainability of key performance indicators KPIs . However there are a few challenges of using a drive test since coverage of the drive test is very limited and the results of the drive test can shift over time.

In accordance with an implementation using user equipment device measurements can be efficient with respect to both cost and result accuracy. Further with user equipment device service quality measurements correlated with location the network performance observed from the perspective of the user equipment device can be pinpointed to the location which can be used to determine the target area of network optimization.

For known reported historical service issues the location where the service issue was observed is important in order to correct the service issue. Therefore the location information should be as accurate as possible. However the quality e.g. the location estimate accuracy of some passive location estimate approaches might be too poor to meet the needs of the above mentioned cases. For example the location estimate accuracy for these cases might be that the location should be within a grid with 25 meters for example which might not have the desired accuracy.

A passive estimation approach includes using an enhanced cell identification e cid only. This approach uses the timing advance measurement from the user equipment device. The timing advance measurement is derived from a calculation that determines the time it takes for the user equipment device s radio signal to reach the serving cell. The timing advance measurements can be used to represent the distance of the user equipment device to the cell antenna. However the timing advance measurement can be derived from a reflected signal wherein a building or other structure is blocking the line of sight of the signal although the error might be considered negligible. When the user equipment device is in a radio resource control RRC connected mode timing advance measurements can be available from the base station e.g. eNodeB eNB and so on . The timing advance measurement might be sampled periodically such as every second. Using this approach however can only constrain the user equipment s location in an arc for a multiple sector cell tower or a ring for an omnidirectional cell tower.

For example illustrates an example non limiting plot of various timing advance measurements measured between a user equipment device and a base station . The e cid of the base station uniquely identifies that base station. As illustrated the coverage area of the base station can be divided into sectors such as a first sector a second sector and a third sector which are demarcated by the illustrated lines. It should be understood that although only three sectors are illustrated the coverage area can be divided into any number of sectors.

Also illustrated are various timing advance measurements that can be captured while the user equipment device is being moved which is away from the base station in this example. The accuracy of a first timing advance measurement TA is constrained to a first arc band or portion of a circle . The accuracy of a second timing advance measurement TA is constrained to a second arc . In a similar manner the accuracy of a third timing advance measurement TA is constrained to a third arc and the accuracy of a fourth timing advance measurement TA is constrained to a fourth arc . The accuracy level of this approach can be in the thousands of meters depending on the cell tower radio frequency RF configuration.

The network is aware of the locations of the neighboring cells and based on triangulation can estimate the location of the user equipment device . If the serving cell signal strength has degraded below a threshold value it can trigger a handover or transfer of control of the network communication for the user equipment device from the current serving cell to one of the neighboring cells.

This operation can be periodic or can be triggered by base station configured events e.g. signal strength is lower than a certain threshold . With these measurement reports triangulation and or multilateration techniques can be applied to calculate the location of the user equipment device. The accuracy of the location estimate is only slightly better than using the location of the center point of the sector for the estimate location.

Another approach for location estimation includes using a RSRP fingerprint. This approach includes building a grid map and further a drive test is needed to perform the measurements at each grid point. A drive test includes dividing the space e.g. geographic area of interest into grids that can be similar in size and shape. A user equipment device is physically placed in each grid and is requested to perform measurements within that grid. For example ten samples might be obtained and averaged for that particular grid. The average measurement becomes the representative measurement for that grid. This is performed independently for all the grids. Thereafter when a user equipment device provides measurements those measurements are compared to the grid measurements and a selection of the grid in which the user equipment device is located is derived from the comparison.

For example the Euclidian distance between the user equipment device s measurements and the prior tests results are calculated. The grid that has the smallest Euclidian distance with the user equipment device s measurement is used as the estimate of that user equipment device s location. This approach is not practical due to the extensive drive test that is necessary. Further a single change in the network configuration changes the fingerprint which means the drive test needs to be performed again in the neighboring locations.

A further approach includes using both e cid and RSRP measurements. However this combined hybrid approach does not produce promising results and the accuracy is only in the hundreds of meters. Another approach relates to combining user equipment trace constrains. Since the user equipment device is not able to move at infinite speed this additional condition can be used to improve the location estimation accuracy. However even with this approach the accuracy is still not as good as it should be.

The one or more aspects disclosed herein utilize a tied approach based on the availability of the measurements. illustrates an example non limiting system configured for dynamic network configuration based on passive location analytics according to an aspect. System includes the at least one memory and the at least one processor . Also included are the receiver component and the location estimation manager component which can be configured to estimate the location based on a timing advance measurement and or can generate a location measurement set .

Further to this implementation a measurement manager component can be configured to define a measurement set . The measurement set can be a set of measurements received passively from the user equipment device e.g. by the receiver component . Included in the measurement set can be a set of measurements from GPS including latitude longitude altitude and or speed. Additionally or alternatively the measurement set can include timing advance measurements with respect to a serving cell and one or more neighboring cells and or RSRP RSRQ measurements with respect to a serving cell and one or more neighboring cells.

Each measurement set can be associated with the measurement user equipment device and a measurement window which can be determined by a timing manager component . The measurement window can be defined as the amount of time it takes for the user equipment device to move from a first location Tx to a second location Ts. For purposes of discussion it can be assumed that the measuring user equipment device moves a negligible distance from its location at Tx to its location at Tx Ts. This distance can range smaller than an averaged error of this approach. However Ts should not be chosen to be too small. Instead Ts should be chosen such that the measurement window includes as many measurements as possible.

The second chart from the bottom of illustrates the unpredictable user equipment UE application driven GPS measurement and reporting. As illustrated all of these measurements and reports or at least a subset of these measurements and reports are included within the time frame of the sliding measurement set window Ts . According to some implementations there might not be any of these measurements that fall within the time frame of the sliding measurement set window Ts .

The third chart illustrates the neighboring cell signal strength measurements at a serving cell edge. In this example two measurements are taken and both these measurements fall within the time frame of the sliding measurement set window Ts . However this is not necessarily the case and according to some implementations one or more of the neighboring cell signal strength measurements might fall outside the time frame of the sliding measurement set window Ts . According to some implementations there might not be any of these measurements that fall within the time frame of the sliding measurement set window Ts .

The fourth chart illustrates the continuous MAC layer timing advance measurements. As illustrated these measurements are fairly periodic and one or more of these measurements fall within the time frame of the sliding measurement set window Ts . According to some implementations however there might not be any number of these measurements that fall within the time frame of the sliding measurement set window Ts .

A complete reference measurement set can be defined as the measurement set that comprises timing advance measurements RSRP RSRQ measurements and GPS measurements. A partial reference measurement set can be defined as the measurement set that contains at least GPS measurements but not all measurements e.g. might include either the timing advance measurements or the RSRP RSRQ measurements . A non reference measurement set can be defined as the measurement set that does not contain a GPS measurement.

As discussed the receiver component obtains GPS reports if available as well as other information and or other measurements based on the availability of such information and or measurements . illustrates an example non limiting representation of user equipment global positioning system measurements according to an aspect. Illustrated is a user equipment device . A user equipment device may contain some or all of the functionality of a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile wireless terminal device mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal wireless communication device wireless communication apparatus user agent user device or user equipment UE . A mobile device can be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a smart phone a feature phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop a handheld communication device a handheld computing device a netbook a tablet a satellite radio a data card a wireless modem card and or another processing device for communicating over a wireless system.

The user equipment device reports its GPS measurements as responses to many application calls. These applications include navigation applications social networking applications weather applications and other applications that might track the location of the user equipment device . The GPS measurements can include latitude longitude altitude speed and so on.

The user equipment device reports back the location queries from these applications in the user plane data. The GPS measurements can be reported to application servers in an application layer protocol payload. For example the information can be reported to a base station e.g. eNB . For those probes monitoring Gn interfaces between a server gateway e.g. SGW and a p packet gateway PGW this information can be acquired.

Different applications can locate the GPS reports or the GPS measurements in different places in the user plane data e.g. HTTP headers . Algorithms choosing the right signature to acquire GPS locations and filtering out non trusted or unreliable GPS locations requires extensive analysis of these applications and their data structure. For example a navigation application can use a number of dedicated application servers. The application running or executing on the user equipment device reports back its GPS location information in the HTTP header. Then the probe would collected HTTP packets towards those known application servers and cut e.g. discard the first several hundreds of bytes so that the GPS location information can be retained. The probe should also record the HTTP packet receive time stamp and the user equipment device international mobile subscriber identity IMSI from the general packet radio service GPRS tunneling protocol GTP packet header. These records can have the following example generic format 

Complete reference measurement sets and partial reference measurement sets can be utilized to build fingerprints of geographical cellular measurements.

When calculating a user equipment device timestamp location pair that does not fall into any reference measurement set when the user equipment device is radio resource control RRC connected the location estimation manager component can utilize a shortest weighted Euclidean distance estimate to estimate the user equipment device location for example. The weights can be on timing advance measurement and RSRP RSRQ measurement. The GPS location of a reference measurement set that has the shortest weighted Euclidean distance to the non reference measurement set can be used as the estimate of the user equipment device location.

When there is no reference measurement set or reference fingerprint that can be used and the user equipment device is performing a handover a timing advance and handover based approach can be utilized by the location estimation manager component to estimate the user equipment device location. illustrates an example non limiting representation of a user equipment device timing advance cross handover measurement according to an aspect.

When a user equipment device is moving from left to right and performing a handover a left cell reports a timing advance measurement of the user equipment device before the handover. Further a right cell reports another timing advance measurement of the user equipment device after the handover.

In this case Dl can be defined as the distance of the user equipment device to the left cell calculated from the last timing advance cell measures for this user equipment device. Dr can be defined as the distance of the user equipment device to the right cell calculated from the first timing advance right cell measurements for this user equipment device . D can be defined as the distance between the left cell and the right cell .

If the sum of Dl and Dr is approximately equal to D which can be expressed as then the location estimate of the user equipment device as determined by the location estimation manager component is on the line connecting the left cell antenna and the right cell antenna with Dl away from the left cell antenna.

If the sum of Dl and Dr is less than D which can be expressed as then the location estimation of the user equipment device is determined by the location estimation manager component as being on the line connecting e.g. a connection point the left cell antenna and the right cell antenna with D Dl Dl Dr away from the left cell antenna.

If the sum of Dl and Dr is greater than D which can be expressed as then there exist at least two possible intersections of the circle centered on the left cell antenna with radius Dl and the circle centered on the right cell antenna with radius Dr . These two possible intersection locations are both candidates of the user equipment device location estimate and are illustrated as the filled in squares of .

The RSRP RSRQ measurements can be used by the location estimation manager component to determine which intersection of the at least two possible intersections locations is the better choice. If the cells on the same side as the intersection have stronger RSRP measurements than the other side then the intersection is chosen to be the location estimate of the user equipment device. The timing advance measurements before and after the handover can be used to calculate the estimated azimuth if desired.

The measurements collected from the one or more user equipment devices can include measurements that are communicated to the network for other purposes. For example the measurements can be used for mobility handling call handling radio resource handling and or other operations. Thus the measurements can be leveraged for location estimation purposes as discussed herein.

The receiver component can also be configured to receive various measurements and or other information from one or more base stations within the communications network. According to an aspect the one or more base stations can monitor their surrounding radio conditions e.g. by employing respective measurement components . For example each of the base stations can determine network traffic load on its respective network by performing a network diagnostic procedure. As an example during a network listen procedure each base station can scan its respective radio environment to determine network performance statistics. Various parameters associated with each base station can be detected during the network diagnostic procedure such as but not limited to frequency bands scrambling codes common channel pilot power bandwidth across respective networks universal mobile telecommunications system terrestrial radio access receive signal strength indicator and so on.

One or more user devices and or the network e.g. one or more base stations might experience interference in a location due to overlapping coverage and or due to other parameters e.g. uplink interference downlink interference and so on . The interference can cause the possibility that a connection might be lost e.g. dropped call or that other negative impacts to the user experience could occur e.g. disruption during the communication slow response of data and so on . Therefore in accordance with the disclosed aspects the interference experienced by each user equipment device as well as other metrics related to the user equipment devices and or each network are monitored and various adjustments are made to one or more settings in order to mitigate the interference experienced by each mobile device and or each network e.g. each cell each base station .

User equipment devices can communicate with each other and with other elements via a network for instance a wireless network or a wireline network. A network can include broadband wide area networks such as cellular networks local area networks wireless local area networks e.g. Wi Fi and personal area networks such as near field communication networks including BLUETOOTH . Communication across a network can be packet based however radio and frequency amplitude modulation networks can enable communication between communication devices using appropriate analog digital analog converters and other elements. Communication is enabled by hardware elements called transceivers. User equipment devices can have more than one transceiver capable of communicating over different networks. For example a cellular telephone can include a cellular transceiver for communicating with a cellular base station a Wi Fi transceiver for communicating with a Wi Fi network and a BLUETOOTH transceiver for communicating with a BLUETOOTH device. A Wi Fi network is accessible via access points such as wireless routers etc. that communicate with the Wi Fi transceiver to send and receive data. The Wi Fi network can further be connected to the internet or other packet based networks. The bandwidth of a network connection or an access point is a measure of the rate of data transfer and can be expressed as a quantity of data transferred per unit of time. Additionally communication e.g. voice traffic data traffic and so on between one or more components can include wired communications e.g. routed through a backhaul broadband wired network an optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line digital subscriber line coaxial cable and or the like and or radio broadcasts e.g. cellular channels Wi Fi channels satellite channels and or the like . In accordance with some embodiments one or more of the user equipment devices can be capable of simultaneous connection to the networks. For example a user equipment device can be a multi mode device.

A network can include a plurality of elements that host logic for performing tasks on the network. The logic can be hosted on servers according to an aspect. In packet based wide area networks servers may be placed at several logical points on the network. Servers may further be in communication with databases and can enable communication devices to access the contents of a database. Billing servers and application servers are examples of such servers. A server can include several network elements including other servers and can be logically situated anywhere on a service provider s network such as the back end of a cellular network. A server hosts or is in communication with a database hosting an account for a user of a mobile device. A user account includes several attributes for a particular user including a unique identifier of the mobile device s owned by the user relationships with other users application usage location personal settings business rules bank accounts and other information.

The measurements and or other information received by the receiver component can be retained in one or more data stores . As illustrated the one or more data stores can be located separate from the at least one memory. However according to some aspects at least a portion of one or more data stores can be located internal to memory. According to some implementations one or more data stores can be located external to system e.g. maintained by a third party and accessible by system .

The location estimation manager component can be configured to performed location for all the user equipment devices from which measurements were collected or for at least a subset of the user equipment devices. The location estimates can be retained in the one or more data stores as historical data sets and can be utilized later for historical localization purposes. For example if the location of a particular user equipment device for a particular time and day e.g. yesterday at 2 00 p.m. is desired for active localization the location cannot be determined. This is because active localization requires interaction from the user equipment device and it is not possible to acquire e.g. trigger this information for a past event. However for passive location estimation as discussed herein the information is being collected by the network in a passive and on going manner and therefore can be determined for a past event.

The historical data sets can be maintained in different formats and can be categorized based on one or more parameters of the respective user equipment device. For example the location information can be categorized based on a vendor that manufactured the user equipment device based on a phone model or based on other parameters of the mobile device. According to some aspects the location information can be categorized based on time of day day of week and other information related to the time stamp associated with the received measurements.

According to some implementations the various aspects disclosed herein can utilize an artificial intelligence component not shown which can facilitate automating one or more features in accordance with the disclosed aspects. As discussed herein the disclosed aspects can be utilized to perform location estimation for improvements to radio network coverage and capacity optimization. The disclosed aspects in connection with location estimation can employ various artificial intelligence based schemes for carrying out various aspects thereof. For example a process for receiving passive information from one or more user equipment devices receiving measurements and other data from various network devices estimating a location of each user equipment device or a subset of the user equipment devices and so forth can be facilitated with an example automatic classifier system and process.

An example classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x x x x xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that can be automatically performed.

A support vector machine is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The support vector machine can operate by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also may be inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

The disclosed aspects can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing usage of the user equipment device by observing a movement pattern of the user equipment device and so on . For example support vector machines can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to obtaining various measurements from user equipment devices and or network devices defining an interval for measurement collection analyzing the collected information creating one or more measurement sets and estimating locations of various user equipment devices and so on. The criteria can include but is not limited to a type of network location of the mobile device a transmit power level of the cell an orientation of an antenna of a cell and so on.

In view of the example systems shown and described herein methods that may be implemented in accordance with the one or more of the disclosed aspects will be better understood with reference to the following flow charts. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood that the disclosed aspects are not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter. It is noted that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware in local cloud and or virtualized environment a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it is also noted that the methods disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. The various methods disclosed herein can be performed by a system comprising at least one processor and or one or more network devices comprising at least one processor. Further the methods can be implemented in one or more devices of a network and or one or more devices located outside the network but in communication with the network.

At passive information is received from a mobile device during a defined interval e.g. using the receiver component . The defined interval can be a configurable interval that is selected based on the amount of time it takes for a mobile device to move from a first location to a second location. The interval should be selected such that measurements related to one or more of GPS measurements RSRP measurements and or timing advance measurements can be received from the mobile device. However the interval should not be such a large interval of time that the evaluation of such measurements becomes cumbersome. According to some implementations the interval should be chosen such that at least a GPS measurement is received from the mobile device. The passive information can also be received while an active session is executing on the mobile device. Further the passive information comprises a set of measurements that are associated with respective time stamps.

According to an implementation receiving the passive information includes receiving from the mobile device report data representing a measurement report that is used to maintain network communication with the mobile device. According to some implementations receiving the passive information includes receiving report data comprising a global positioning system report from the active session running on the mobile device.

At a location of the mobile device is determined based on the received passive information e.g. using the location estimation manager component . Determining the location can include based on a first measurement of the set of measurements estimating the location of the mobile device based on a timing advance measurement at . According to another implementation determining the location can include based on a second measurement of the set of measurements generating a measurement set for the location of the mobile device at .

According to some implementations the method can also include storing the location of the mobile device as a historical data set. The historical data set can be utilized for dynamic network configuration and for other purposes related to improving a user experience and optimizing system performance.

Estimating the location based on the timing advanced measurements can include receiving at a first measurement from a first device of a first network such as a source base station e.g. using the receiver component . At a second measurement is received e.g. using the receiver component from a second device of a second network such as target base station. For example a network communication of the mobile device can be transferred from the first device of the first network e.g. source base station or source network and to the second device of the second network e.g. target base station or target network . For example the first measurement can be received prior to the network traffic being transferred and the second measurement can be received after the network traffic has been transferred.

At a first distance and a second distance are determined e.g. using the measurement manager component . The first distance can be defined between the first device and the mobile device and is based on the first measurement. The second distance is defined between the second device and the mobile device and is based on the second measurement. Determining the location can also include determining the location of the mobile device based on the first distance the second distance and a known distance e.g. a determined distance or an established distance between the first device and the second device. For example base stations are generally fixed in a certain geographic location and therefore the distance between the base stations can be known in advanced. For an ad hoc network the location between the networks can be based on GPS or other location measurements and the distance between networks can be determined based on the GPS or other location measurements.

According to an implementation determining the location includes determining that a first value that represents a sum of the first distance and the second distance is substantially equal to a second value that represents the known distance. Further a determination is made that the location of the mobile device is on a line connecting the first device and the second device

According to another implementation determining the location includes determining that a first value that represents a sum of the first distance and the second distance is less than a second value that represents the known distance. Further a determination is made that the location of the mobile device is on a line connecting the first device and the second device at a third distance away from the first device.

In accordance with a further implementation determining the location includes determining that a first value that represents a sum of the first distance and the second distance is greater than a second value that represents the known distance. Further a first intersection location is identified based on a first radius of the first distance and a second intersection location based on a second radius of the second distance. A first set of signal strength measurements for the first device and a second set of signal strength measurements for the second device are evaluated and a first subset of the first set of signal strength measurements and a second subset of the second set of signal strength measurements are selected. In addition based on the selection of the first subset and the second subset the location of the mobile device is selected from a group of locations comprising the first intersection location and the second intersection location.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to improve coverage capacity and performance through passive location estimation is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and include the illustrative wireless environment however it is noted that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 radians per sector configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It is noted that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or eNodeBs and . Any two eNodeBs can be considered an eNodeB site pair. It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. eNode B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network. It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for universal mobile telecommunication system based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface universal mobile telecommunication system Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched based e.g. voice and data and packet switched e.g. Internet protocol frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any electromagnetic frequency bands licensed by the service provider network e.g. personal communication services advanced wireless services general wireless communications service and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. . Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system global system for mobile communication mobile network platform can be embodied in the service provider network .

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components such as T1 E1 phone line T3 DS3 line a digital subscriber line either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric digital subscriber line an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight or non line of sight links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for universal mobile telecommunication system based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It is noted that while exemplary wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in micro cells pico cells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based equipment related to access to a network.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of access equipment and or software related to access of a network e.g. base station wireless access point femto cell access point and so forth that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed aspects.

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments B is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access equipment and or software related to access of a network and can be controlled by a monitor component and an antenna component . Monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which can include electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and can convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that can facilitate manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Multiplexer demultiplexer can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing frequency division multiplexing orthogonal frequency division multiplexing code division multiplexing space division multiplexing. In addition multiplexer demultiplexer component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so forth .

A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation with M a positive integer phase shift keying and so forth .

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access equipment and or software . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access equipment and or software through for example monitor component antenna component and one or more components therein. Additionally access equipment and or software can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access equipment and or software or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be a liquid crystal display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or through touch gestures which can cause access equipment and or software to receive external commands e.g. restart operation .

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access equipment and or software to a service provider network not shown that can include one or more cellular technologies e.g. third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system global system for mobile communication and so on through backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access equipment and or software and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and so on. Moreover processor can be functionally connected through data system or an address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access equipment and or software memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access equipment and or software sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access equipment and or software radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access equipment and or software .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device including but not limited to including single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit a digital signal processor a field programmable gate array a programmable logic controller a complex programmable logic device a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components including the memory. It is noted that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation random access memory is available in many forms such as synchronous random access memory dynamic random access memory synchronous dynamic random access memory double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory enhanced synchronous dynamic random access memory Synchlink dynamic random access memory and direct Rambus random access memory. Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. For example in memory such as at least one memory there can be software which can instruct a processor such as at least one processor to perform various actions. The processor can be configured to execute the instructions in order to implement the analysis of monitoring an uplink power level detecting the uplink power level is at or above a threshold level and or disable transmission of at least one message as a result of the monitored uplink power level.

Moreover those skilled in the art will understand that the various aspects can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers base stations hand held computing devices or user equipment such as a tablet phone watch and so forth processor based computers systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to industrial standard architecture micro channel architecture extended industrial standard architecture intelligent drive electronics video electronics standards association local bus peripheral component interconnect card bus universal serial bus advanced graphics port personal computer memory card international association bus Firewire institute of electrical and electronics engineers and small computer systems interface.

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation random access memory is available in many forms such as dynamic random access memory synchronous random access memory synchronous dynamic random access memory double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory enhanced synchronous dynamic random access memory Synchlink dynamic random access memory and direct Rambus random access memory direct Rambus dynamic random access memory and Rambus dynamic random access memory.

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. In an implementation provided is a non transitory or tangible computer readable storage device storing executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system comprising a processor to perform operations. The operations can include receiving during a defined interval passive information from a mobile device while an active session is executing on the mobile device. The passive information comprises a set of measurements associated with respective time stamps. The defined interval comprises a measurement window defined as an amount of time for the mobile device to move from a first location to a second location. The operations can also include determining a location of the mobile device comprising based on a first measurement of the set of measurements estimating the location of the mobile device based on a timing advance measurement and based on a second measurement of the set of measurements generating a measurement set for the location of the mobile device. Further the operations can include storing the location of the mobile device as a historical data set.

According to an implementation the operations include receiving a third measurement from a first device of a first network and receiving a fourth measurement from a second device of a second network. A network communication of the mobile device can be transferred from the first device to the second device. The operations can also include determining a first distance between the first device and the mobile device based on the third measurement and a second distance between the second device and the mobile device based on the fourth measurement. Determining the location can comprise determining the location of the mobile device based on the first distance the second distance and an established distance between the first device and the second device.

In accordance with an implementation the operations include determining that a first value that represents a sum of the first distance and the second distance is greater than a second value that represents the established distance. Further the operations can include identifying a first intersection location based on a first radius of the first distance and a second intersection location based on a second radius of the second distance. The operations also include evaluating a first set of signal strength measurements for the first device and a second set of signal strength measurements for the second device and selecting a first subset of the first set of signal strength measurements and a second subset of the second set of signal strength measurements. Further based on selecting the first subset and the second subset the operations can include selecting the location of the mobile device from a group of locations comprising the first intersection location and the second intersection location.

According to some implementations the operations can include determining that a first value that represents a sum of the first distance and the second distance is less than a second value that represents the established distance. Further determining the location can include determining the mobile device is on a connection point between the first device and the second device at a third distance away from the first device.

In accordance with some implementations the operations can include determining that a first value that represents a sum of the first distance and the second distance is substantially equal to a second value that represents the established distance. Further determining the location can include determining the mobile device is on a connection point between the first device and the second device

It is to be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications can take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information for example through interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus through interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus. Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a universal serial bus port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices such as monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It is also noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network computer a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only one memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected through communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks and wide area networks. Local area network technologies include fiber distributed data interface copper distributed data interface Ethernet token ring and the like. Wide area network technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks such as integrated services digital networks and variations thereon packet switching networks and digital subscriber lines.

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi worldwide interoperability for microwave access Enhanced gateway general packet radio service third generation partnership project long term evolution third generation partnership project ultra mobile broadband third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system high speed packet access high speed downlink packet access high speed uplink packet access global system for mobile communication edge radio access network universal mobile telecommunication system terrestrial radio access network long term evolution advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. global system for mobile communication. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as Internet protocol television can exploit aspect or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including the disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc digital versatile disc blu ray disc . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to random access memory read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory flash memory or other memory technology compact disk read only memory digital versatile disk or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide the one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

It is noted for the avoidance of doubt any embodiments described herein in the context of optimizing one or more parameters and or performance are not so limited. Instead such terms should be considered also to cover any techniques that implement underlying aspects or parts of the below described aspects to improve or increase various parameters and or performance even if resulting in a sub optimal variant obtained by relaxing aspects or parts of a given implementation or embodiment. Further although various performance indicators metrics success metrics and or objective metrics might be described as key such term can apply to different indicators and or metrics as determined during implementation of the disclosed aspects. For example what might be considered key in a first implementation might not be considered key in a second implementation or in other implementations.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output components as well as associated processor application or application programming interface components.

The term set subset or the like as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein . Thus a set subset or the like includes one or more elements or periods for example. As an illustration a set of periods includes one or more periods a set of transmissions includes one or more transmissions a set of resources includes one or more resources a set of messages includes one or more messages and so forth.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

