---

title: Detonator comprising a nonlinear transmission line
abstract: Detonators are described herein. In a general embodiment, the detonator includes a nonlinear transmission line that has a variable capacitance. Capacitance of the nonlinear transmission line is a function of voltage on the nonlinear transmission line. The nonlinear transmission line receives a voltage pulse from a voltage source and compresses the voltage pulse to generate a trigger signal. Compressing the voltage pulse includes increasing amplitude of the voltage pulse and decreasing length of the voltage pulse in time. An igniter receives the trigger signal and detonates an explosive responsive to receipt of the trigger signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08922973&OS=08922973&RS=08922973
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08922973
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130826
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Conventional detonators comprise an igniter such as a bridge wire or fuse that is configured to emit a relatively large pulse of energy responsive to receipt of a trigger signal. The trigger signal has a predefined shape e.g. rise time and amplitude . Trigger signals typically have a relatively fast rise time wherein the trigger signal burns a wire bridge or fuse which then detonates an explosive such as trinitrotoluene nitrogen trichloride cyclonite cyclotrimethylene trinitramine etc. .

Conventional detonator designs are based upon a capacitor and a switch. A battery is employed to charge the capacitor and the switch is timed such that the trigger signal is output thereby causing the bridge wire or fuse to burn as rapidly as possible. The rapid burning of the bridge wire or fuse generates a concentrated burst of energy which impacts an explosive coupled to the detonator. Such burst of energy may be in the form of heat a shock wave etc.

Conventional detonators are problematic in that faulty switches and or faulty capacitors may cause the detonator to malfunction such that a detonator can cause an explosive to detonate at an unexpected time e.g. later than expected or not at all. It can be ascertained that particularly for relatively complex explosive operations such as large building demolition in populated areas timing of detonation of explosives must be precise to ensure safety of explosives operators and minimize damage to other structures. These more complex explosive operations generally include the use of control centers that are located several hundred feet from a demolition site. Due to the need for precise timing the remote location of the control center and the distributed nature of explosives a relative complex explosive operation can include use of multiple detonators placed at particular locations each detonator having its own respective timing switch and capacitor charge unit. Conventionally to avoid unintentionally detonating an explosive a charging system for a detonator is grounded until immediately before the explosive is detonated and thereafter a capacitor unit is relatively slowly charged. The problem of malfunctioning switches and or capacitors is addressed with redundant switches capacitors and backup systems.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein in alternative embodiments are various technologies pertaining to detonators including a nonlinear transmission line that can be configured to receive a voltage pulse as input and output a trigger signal responsive to receipt of the voltage pulse wherein the voltage pulse is compressed to generate the trigger signal. Compression of the voltage pulse includes increasing amplitude of the voltage pulse and increasing velocity of the voltage pulse e.g. decreasing length of the pulse in time . Generation of the trigger signal is based upon the nonlinear transmission line having a variable capacitance wherein capacitance of the nonlinear transmission line is a function of voltage on the nonlinear transmission line. In an exemplary embodiment as the voltage on the nonlinear transmission line increases the capacitance of the nonlinear transmission line can decrease. In another exemplary embodiment as the current on the nonlinear transmission line increases the capacitance of the nonlinear transmission line can increase.

Such a nonlinear transmission line is particularly well suited for a variety of applications. For example a detonator can include a nonlinear transmission line wherein the detonator comprises an igniter e.g. a fuse or bridge wire that is ignited responsive to receiving a trigger signal from the nonlinear transmission line. In another example the nonlinear transmission line can be included in a radiography system that emits a burst of radiation responsive to receipt of a trigger signal. As the nonlinear transmission line is configured to compress an input voltage pulse less energy can be needed to generate the trigger signal.

In an exemplary embodiment the nonlinear transmission line can include at least one variable capacitor wherein the variable capacitor has a capacitance that is a function of voltage on the capacitor. For instance when multiple variable capacitors are connected in series as voltage on the nonlinear transmission line increases capacitance of the nonlinear transmission line can decrease. In another example when multiple variable capacitors are connected in parallel in the nonlinear transmission line as voltage on the nonlinear transmission decreases current on the nonlinear transmission line increases.

In an example a variable capacitor can be included as a lumped element in the nonlinear transmission line. The variable capacitor can include a plurality of layers wherein such layers comprise a plurality of layers of dielectric material and a plurality of layers of metal oxide material and or ferroelectric material. Each layer of metal oxide material and or ferroelectric material is respectively interposed between layers of dielectric material such that the variable capacitor is formed by alternating layers of dielectric material and metal oxide material and or ferroelectric material.

In an example the variable capacitor can be formed by way of axially stacking such layers or radially stacking such layers. For instance when the layers are radially stacked the variable capacitor can comprise a plurality of concentric rings. The thicknesses of each layer of metal oxide material and or ferroelectric material are respectively selected such that the layers of metal oxide material and or ferroelectric material become conductive at particular voltages. When a layer of metal oxide material and or ferroelectric material becomes conductive the layers of dielectric material surrounding the layer of metal oxide material and or ferroelectric material become connected in series thereby reducing overall capacitance of the variable capacitor. It can therefore be ascertained that a number and thickness of layers of the variable capacitor can be manufactured to cause a particular input voltage pulse to be compressed to form a trigger signal having a desired rise time shape with a minimum predefined amplitude .

In another exemplary embodiment the nonlinear transmission line can include a nanoparticle modified complex dielectric material wherein distribution of conductive nanoparticles in the complex dielectric material corresponds with a capacitance that alters as a function of voltage. With more specificity an input voltage pulse can be compressed by changing a local value of a material dielectric constant and thus intrinsically the capacitance as the input voltage pulse travels through the nonlinear transmission line. The material dielectric constant can be modified by leveraging the conductivity portion of a complex dielectric constant value which becomes frequency dependent thus introducing a strong nonlinear behavior and thereby inducing pulse compression . Accordingly a dielectric material can be manufactured to have conductive nanoparticles distributed therein in accordance with a predefined distribution. Such dielectric material can be included in a transmission line thereby forming a nonlinear transmission line.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In alternative embodiments various technologies pertaining to detonators having a nonlinear transmission are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

With reference now to in a general embodiment an exemplary explosives system is illustrated. The explosives system includes a detonator which is configured to detonate an explosive . The explosive can be composed of any suitable primary or secondary explosive material such as trinitrotoluene nitrogen trichloride cyclonite cyclotrimethylene trinitramine etc. The detonator includes a nonlinear transmission line that has a capacitance that varies as a function of voltage on the nonlinear transmission line . For example capacitance of the nonlinear transmission line can decrease as voltage on the nonlinear transmission line increases. In another example the nonlinear transmission line can be configured such that as the voltage of the nonlinear transmission line decreases current on the nonlinear transmission line increases. As will be described in greater detail below the nonlinear transmission line can comprise a variable capacitor wherein capacitance of the variable capacitor alters as a function of voltage on the variable capacitor. In another example the nonlinear transmission line can include a dielectric or thermoset material that has conductive e.g. metallic nanoparticles distributed therein such that the capacitance of the nonlinear transmission line alters as a function of the distribution of the metallic nanoparticles.

The detonator further includes an igniter that is configured to emit an energy pulse responsive to receipt of a trigger signal from the nonlinear transmission line . Pursuant to an example the igniter may be a bridge wire or a fuse. Energy emitted by the igniter may be heat a shockwave or the like wherein a type of energy emitted by the igniter can depend upon a type of the explosive . The igniter causes the explosive to detonate responsive to the igniter receiving the trigger signal from the nonlinear transmission line .

The explosive system can further include a voltage source which may be a DC voltage source such as a battery capacitor etc. The voltage source is configured to output an input voltage pulse which is received at the nonlinear transmission line . In operation the nonlinear transmission line compresses the input voltage pulse to generate the trigger signal which is received by the igniter . Compression of the input voltage pulse to generate the trigger signal comprises increasing amplitude of the input voltage pulse and increasing velocity of the input voltage pulse thereby decreasing the length of the pulse in time.

In an exemplary embodiment the igniter can be configured to detonate the explosive responsive to the igniter receiving a trigger signal that has a particular rise time and a certain shape wherein the rise time and shape can be modeled by way of a first equation. Similarly the voltage source can be configured to output the input voltage pulse wherein the input voltage pulse has a particular rise time and shape that can be modeled by of a second equation. The nonlinear transmission line can be designed customized to effectively transform the second equation into the first equation that is the nonlinear transmission line can be designed to receive the input voltage pulse from the voltage source and compress the input voltage pulse to cause the pulse to have the rise time and shape that corresponds to the first equation. Again when the igniter receives such pulse the trigger signal the igniter releases energy thereby detonating the explosive .

As the nonlinear transmission line is designed in accordance with both the voltage source and the igniter risk of malfunction of the detonator is mitigated. For example an electrostatic discharge most likely will not match the input voltage source required to cause the nonlinear transmission line to output the trigger signal. Additionally since the nonlinear transmission line can be configured to increase the amplitude of the input voltage pulse the voltage source can be configured to output a voltage pulse with lower amplitude when compared with conventional explosive systems. Therefore an amount of energy needed to detonate the explosive is reduced when compared to energy needed to detonate explosives in conventional explosives systems. Still further the detonation system overcomes deficiencies associated with timing requirements of conventional explosive systems. As noted above conventional explosive systems include the use of switches to produce a trigger signal having the requisite rise time needed to ignite an igniter wherein charging of a capacitor and operation of the switch need to be precisely timed to generate the desired trigger signal. In the exemplary detonation system switches are unnecessary. That is the nonlinear transmission line can be configured to intrinsically compress the voltage pulse output by the voltage source to generate the trigger signal for the igniter . Similarly if the nonlinear transmission line includes a plurality of variable capacitors arranged in parallel the nonlinear transmission line can be configured to intrinsically compress a current pulse output by the voltage source to generate a trigger signal for the igniter .

Now referring to another exemplary depiction of the explosive system is illustrated. In operation the voltage source outputs a voltage pulse having a first amplitude A1 and a first pulse length L1. As the voltage pulse travels through the nonlinear transmission line the voltage pulse is compressed thereby generating a trigger signal wherein the trigger signal has a second amplitude A2 and a second pulse length L2. As noted above compression of the voltage pulse comprises increasing amplitude of the voltage pulse e.g. A2 A1 and increasing velocity of the voltage pulse thereby reducing the pulse length in time e.g. L2

As will be described in greater detail below the nonlinear transmission line can be composed of a plurality of variable nonlinear capacitors and regular inductors in a series of L C pairs. A number of L C pairs can depend upon a desired input to output compression ratio and voltage current characteristics. In an exemplary embodiment the variable capacitors have a first terminal coupled to grounded and as the voltage pulse travels through a side of the capacitor that opposes the first terminal the capacitance of the nonlinear transmission line will change e.g. increase or decrease depending upon whether the variable capacitor is connected in series or parallel with other variable capacitors . Described below is a detailed description pertaining to a series capacitance connection where capacitance decreases as voltage increases e.g. beginning with a parallel connection as the voltage induces conduction in each metal oxide layer of a variable capacitor. A similar process is obtained starting with series connection and changing to parallel higher capacitance as the voltage pulse travels through the nonlinear transmission line .

With reference now to an exemplary variable capacitor is illustrated. For example the nonlinear transmission line can include a plurality of variable capacitors as lumped elements therein. The exemplary variable capacitor comprises a first conductive plate and a second conductive plate . The first conductive plate corresponds to an input e.g. high voltage terminal of the variable capacitor and the second conductive plate corresponds to an output or grounded terminal of the variable capacitor . The variable capacitor further comprises a plurality of layers of dielectric material wherein the dielectric material may be a ceramic a plastic a glass or other suitable dielectric material. For instance the dielectric material may be barium titanate. The variable capacitor additionally comprises a plurality of layers of metal oxide material wherein each layer of metal oxide material in the plurality of layers of metal oxide material is respectively interposed between a pair of layers of dielectric material such that the variable capacitor includes alternating layers of dielectric material and metal oxide material. With more particularity the first layer of metal oxide material is interposed between the first layer of dielectric material and the second layer of dielectric material the second layer of metal oxide material is interposed between the second layer of dielectric material and the third layer of dielectric material and the third layer of metal oxide material is interposed between the third layer of dielectric material and the fourth layer of dielectric material . The metal oxide material in an exemplary embodiment may be zinc oxide although the hereto appended claims are not so limited. Furthermore the plurality of layers of metal oxide material may be replaced with layers of ferroelectric material. In still yet another exemplary embodiment the variable capacitor may include layers of dielectric material layers of metal oxide material and layers of ferroelectric material.

While the variable capacitor is shown as including four layers of dielectric material and three layers of metal oxide material it is to be understood that the variable capacitor can include more or fewer layers of dielectric material and metal oxide material. For instance the variable capacitor may include any number of layers of dielectric material greater than one and may include any number of layers of metal oxide material greater than zero.

A respective thickness of each layer in the plurality of layers of dielectric material and a respective thickness of each layer in the plurality of layers of metal oxide material can be selected based upon known characteristics of a desired trigger signal and known characteristics of a voltage source and thus of a voltage pulse emitted by the voltage source . For example as indicated above the igniter may be designed to ignite responsive to receipt of a trigger signal having a particular rise time and pulse shape. Thicknesses of the layers of dielectric material and thicknesses of the layers of metal oxide material can be selected based upon the desired relationship between voltage and capacitance of the variable capacitor . Accordingly for example the thicknesses of the aforementioned layers can be selected such that the variable capacitor has a first capacitance when a first voltage is thereon and a second capacitance when a second voltage is thereon.

Additional detail pertaining to operation of the variable capacitor is now set forth. The variable capacitor can be designed to receive an input voltage pulse with an amplitude as low as 1 mV and as high as 10 MV. The metal oxide material from which the layers of metal oxide material are composed and thicknesses of the respective layers of metal oxide material are selected such that each layer becomes conductive at a respective voltage. As the input voltage pulse is received at the variable capacitor voltage thereon increases such that the metal oxide layers are progressively made conductive thereby coupling the layers of dielectric material in series.

With more specificity as the input voltage pulse is received a difference in potential between the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate is increased e.g. initially all metal oxide layers act as non conductive ceramic and contribute to overall capacitance of the variable capacitor . When such potential reaches a point where the first layer of metal oxide material becomes conductive the first layer of dielectric material and the second layer of dielectric material become connected in series reducing the capacitance of the variable capacitor . As the voltage pulse continues to be received by the variable capacitor a difference in potential between the second metal oxide layer and the second conductive plate increases. When such difference in potential reaches a point where the second layer of metal oxide material becomes conductive the first layer of dielectric material the second layer of dielectric material and the third layer of dielectric material are coupled in series further reducing capacitance of the variable capacitor .

As the voltage pulse is continued to be received difference in potential between the third layer of metal oxide material and the second conductive plate increases until the third layer of metal oxide material becomes conductive thus connecting the layer of dielectric material in series further reducing capacitance of the variable capacitor . As the voltage pulse travels through the nonlinear transmission line which can include multiple non linear capacitors the voltage pulse compresses every time the pulse moves over a variable capacitor thus by a cumulative effect a desired voltage pulse compression can be achieved thereby forming the trigger signal. The change in capacitance of the variable capacitor can be made to progress in time following a desired equation by properly designing the thicknesses of both the metal oxide and dielectric layers. Moreover the change in capacitance of the variable capacitor can be made to progress in time following a desired equation by properly conforming the variable capacitor to an expected or desired voltage rise time and waveform shape. As the variable capacitor can be integrated into a transmission line as a lumped element a variable capacitance wave velocity nonlinear transmission line can be formed.

The variable capacitor shown in comprises a plurality of axially stacked layers. Size of such layers may be as small as 1 mm in diameter to several centimeters in diameter with thicknesses as small as micrometers and as large as 1 cm. Furthermore while the layers are shown as having identical diameters it is to be understood that diameters of the layers may be made progressively smaller or larger along the stack depending on the desired shape of the trigger signal output by the nonlinear transmission line . Other configurations are also possible such as rectangular or a shape conforming to a specific application.

Turning now to a cross sectional view of another exemplary variable capacitor is illustrated. The variable capacitor comprises a first conductive surface and a second conductive surface which are analogous to the conductive plates of the variable capacitor . The variable capacitor further includes plurality of layers of dielectric material as well as a plurality of layers of metal oxide material . As with the variable capacitor the layers of dielectric material and the layers of metal oxide material alternate such that each layer of metal oxide material is surrounded by a respective pair of layers of dielectric material.

In the exemplary variable capacitor shown in the layers are stacked radially as concentric rings. In such an embodiment the voltage pulse that is to be compressed travels axially with the variable capacitor having a length along its axis wherein an initial capacitance value can be a function of the length. In an exemplary embodiment the conductive surface can act as an input e.g. high voltage terminal of the variable capacitor and the conductive surface can act as an output grounded terminal of the variable capacitor . Alternatively the conductive surface can act as an input high voltage terminal of the variable capacitor and the conductive surface can act as the output grounded terminal of the variable capacitor . The variable capacitor operates in a manner similar to that of the variable capacitor in that for predefined voltages the respective metal oxide layers become conductive thereby connecting dielectric layers in series effectively reducing the overall capacitance of the variable capacitor . The thicknesses of the layers can be selected such that the capacitance of the variable capacitor changes in time in accordance with an equation that describes the rise time and wave shape of the trigger signal that will result in the igniter igniting and thus detonating the explosive . While the variable capacitor is shown as having a circular shape it is to be understood that the variable capacitor can be of any suitable shape including ovular square rectangular etc.

With reference now to an exemplary wedge shaped strip line is depicted wherein capacitance of the strip line is reduced as the thickness of the strip line increases. An input voltage pulse traversing the strip line becomes compressed. The strip line is shown as having a linear wedge shape although it is to be contemplated that such strip line can be manufactured to have a nonlinear shape such as exponential elliptical etc. The strip line is set forth as an illustration to indicate a decrease in capacitance along a length of the strip line . Such effect can be accomplished by forming a transmission line that includes a dielectric or thermoset therein and selectively distributing conductive nanoparticles in the dielectric or thermoset to form a nonlinear transmission line. In an example the distribution of the nanoparticles in the dielectric or thermoset material may be varying along the length of the transmission line.

For instance a transmission line can be configured to include a dielectric thermoset or other suitable material with a dielectric constant value being greater than one. Between points on the transmission line a value of the material dielectric constant can be configured to alter which is the basis for input voltage pulse compression as the input voltage wave travels through the transmission line. In an exemplary embodiment an alteration in a material dielectric constant can be accomplished by leveraging the conductivity portion of the complex dielectric constant value which then becomes strongly frequency dependent and thus introducing a strong nonlinear behavior thereby inducing pulse compression . Therefore a transmission line can be manufactured to include a dielectric or thermoset with a metallic nanoparticle mixed therein and distributed in any suitable manner to cause an input voltage pulse to be compressed to form a trigger signal with a desired rise time wave shape. Thus conductive metallic nanoparticles can be distributed in a ceramic or thermoset in a linear nonlinear exponential or any suitable distribution desired throughout the dielectric such that an input voltage pulse traveling through the transmission line that includes the dielectric mixed with the metallic nanoparticles compresses to generate the desired trigger signal.

It can be ascertained that the distribution if the nanoparticles determines the pulse compression characteristics of the transmission line. In the case of the strip line the conductivity and thus the dielectric constant of the material can be distributed along the length of the strip line following a defined distribution wherein the distribution is dependent upon the desired shape of the trigger signal. In an exemplary embodiment an exponential distribution of conductive nanoparticles in a dielectric can result in a pulse that relatively quickly compresses. Further features of the variable capacitors and can be used in connection with the metallic nanoparticles. For instance dielectric layers of the variable capacitors can have metallic nanoparticles mixed therein with a certain distribution to further control the resultant shape of the trigger signal.

Turning now to an exemplary methodology for forming a detonator is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at an igniter is provided wherein the igniter may be one of a fuse or a bridge wire.

At the igniter is electrically connected with a nonlinear transmission line. The nonlinear transmission line is configured to output a trigger signal that ignites the igniter. For example the nonlinear transmission line can have a capacitance that varies as a function of voltage on the nonlinear transmission line resulting in compression of an input voltage pulse as the voltage pulse traverses the nonlinear transmission line. Thus the nonlinear transmission line can receive the input voltage pulse and compress the voltage pulse to generate a desired trigger signal. In an exemplary embodiment the nonlinear transmission line can comprise a variable capacitor such as the variable capacitor or the variable capacitor set forth above. In another exemplary embodiment the nonlinear transmission line can include a dielectric or thermoset with metallic nanoparticles distributed therein to cause the capacitance of the nonlinear transmission line to alter as the input voltage pulse travels through the nonlinear transmission line. The methodology completes at .

Now referring to an exemplary methodology for detonating an explosive is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at an input voltage pulse is provided. For instance such input voltage pulse can be provided from a suitable DC voltage source such as a battery capacitor etc. At a nonlinear transmission line is used to compress the input voltage pulse thus increasing the amplitude and decreasing the pulse length of the input voltage pulse thereby forming a trigger signal having a desired rise time shape. At an explosive is detonated based upon the trigger signal and the methodology completes at .

Turning now to an exemplary methodology for manufacturing a nonlinear transmission line is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at characteristics of a desired trigger signal are received. Such characteristics can include a rise time of the trigger signal a shape of the trigger signal a minimum amplitude of the trigger signal etc.

At characteristics of a voltage source are received which can include characteristics of a voltage pulse that can be output by the voltage source. Characteristics of the voltage pulse can include a rise time of the voltage pulse shape of the voltage pulse amplitude of the voltage pulse pulse length etc.

At a nonlinear transmission line is designed such that the trigger signal is formed when the voltage source outputs a voltage pulse. For instance the nonlinear transmission line can be designed to include a variable capacitor comprising a plurality of alternating layers of dielectric material and metal oxide material wherein thicknesses of such layers are selected based upon the trigger signal characteristics received at and the voltage source characteristics received . In another example the nonlinear transmission line can be designed to include dielectric material with metallic conductive nanoparticles distributed therein wherein distribution of the nanoparticles in the dielectric material causes the nonlinear transmission line to output the trigger signal with the characteristics received at responsive to receipt of a voltage pulse from the voltage source having characteristics received at . The methodology completes at .

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

