---

title: Blog post protection pathway
abstract: Disclosed herein is a method and system for providing copyright protection for blog posts prior to publication from within a running blog-publishing software application by automatically assembling and electronically submitting a copyright application for the blog post to the United States Copyright Office through the use of a portable application programming interface, which may be utilized by third-party blog-publishing applications, and then automatically publishing the blog post through the blog-publishing application once submission of the electronic copyright application for the blog post is confirmed. Additionally disclosed is a method and system of registering a blog post in order to memorialize the creation of the blog post from within a running blog-publishing application through the use of a portable application programming interface, which may be utilized by third-party blog-publishing applications, and then automatically publishing the blog post through the blog-publishing application once registration of the blog post is confirmed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09323904&OS=09323904&RS=09323904
owner: COPYRIGHTNOW, LLC
number: 09323904
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131009
---
The present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 755 872 filed on Jan. 31 2013 and entitled CopyRightNow Application Programming Interface .

The present invention is in the technical field of application programming interfaces. More particularly the preferred embodiments of the present invention relate generally to a method and system for protecting intellectual property. More particularly the preferred embodiments of the present invention relate generally to an improved method and system for providing copyright protection for blog posts from within a blog publishing application before publication of the blog post and for automatically publishing the blog post once copyright protection is confirmed. Additionally the present invention relates generally to an improved method and system of registering a blog post before publication from within a blog publishing application in order to memorialize facts of its creation and in order to allow the blog post to be shared and then automatically publishing the blog post once registration is confirmed.

The broad concept of using electronic systems to assist in the copyright protection of digital creative works is known. These inventions usually involve using digital means to mark a creative work or encrypt the protected work so that it is accessible only through proper authorization. However these inventions do not allow for copyright protection to be obtained before publishing a blog post and for a blog post to be automatically published once copyright protection is confirmed.

It is also known to use methods of digital watermarking to identify copyrighted works. Digital watermarking can include inserting watermarks that may be easily viewed by any party accessing a digital creative work or using watermarks that are embedded in the creative work and only identifiable by the party who added the watermark.

It is also known to use electronic systems to encrypt protected works to impede copying. Various methods exist for digitally encrypting the content of a creative work such that decryption is required to access the creative work.

It is also known to use electronic systems to manage creative works by recording them in an online database. Usually these inventions use electronic methods for licensing sharing and enforcing the proper use of copyrighted material.

It is also known to electronically generate copyright applications for a creative work however these inventions do not allow for the generation of copyright applications from within a running third party software application the electronic submission of the generated copyright application to the United States Copyright Office along with the requisite fees before publishing the creative work or automatic publication of the protected creative work once submission of the generated copyright application is confirmed.

It is also known to use electronic methods to locate an intellectual property attorney and to provide virtual legal services over a computer network.

It is known to electronically protect virtual intellectual property in the context of a video game environment. However these inventions only allow for submission of the creative work to a virtual video game patent office or a virtual video game copyright office and limits intellectual property protection to the context of a video game environment.

Web browser is a complex software program resident in a host device that is capable of loading and displaying text and images and exhibiting behaviors as encoded in HTML HyperText Markup Language from the Internet and also from the client computer s memory. Major browsers include MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER CHROME NETSCAPE APPLE SAFARI MOZILLA FIREFOX and OPERA.

Web Server is a computer able to simultaneously manage many Internet information exchange processes at the same time. Normally server computers are more powerful than client computers and are administratively and or geographically centralized. An interactive form information collection process generally is controlled from a server computer to which the sponsor of the process has access.

Application is a software program for a host device usually for performing a specific function or a range of specific functions.

Blog short for weblog is a personal website or web page on which an individual or a group of individuals record opinions experiences observations links to other sites etc. on a regular basis and often having images or other media.

Blog publishing Application is an application software program running on a host device which is used to create blog posts and publish them within a user s blog. Major blog publishing applications include WORDPRESS BLOGGER WEEBLY and TUMBLR.

Application Programming Interface API is a collection of computer software code usually a set of class definitions that can perform a set of related complex tasks but has a limited set of controls that may be manipulated by other software code entities. The set of controls is deliberately limited for the sake of clarity and ease of use so that programmers do not have to work with the detail contained within the given API itself.

Blog publishing applications allow for users to quickly publish content in the form of a blog post however in some instances it may be desirable to obtain copyright protection on the blog post before publishing the blog post while still maintaining the rapidity of the blog publishing process by automatically publishing the blog post once copyright protection is confirmed. The broad embodiments of the present invention relates generally to an improved method and system for providing copyright protection for blog posts from within a running blog publishing application by automatically assembling and electronically submitting a copyright application for the blog post to the United States Copyright Office before publishing the blog post and then automatically publishing the blog post once submission of the copyright application is confirmed. More particularly the preferred embodiments of the present invention relate generally to a method and system for providing copyright protection for blog posts from within a running blog publishing application through the use of a portable application programming interface which may be utilized by third party blog publishing applications by automatically assembling and electronically submitting a copyright application for the blog post to the United States Copyright Office through the use of a application programming interface before publishing the blog post and then using the application programming interface to automatically publish the blog post once submission of the copyright application is confirmed. Additionally the present invention relates generally to an improved method and system of using of a portable application programming interface to register a blog post from within a running blog publishing application before publishing the blog post and then using the application programming interface to automatically publish the blog post through the blog publishing application once registration of the blog post is confirmed.

In the most preferred embodiments the present invention relates to an improved method and system for providing copyright protection for a blog post from within a third party blog publishing application before publishing the blog post and then automatically publishing the blog post through the blog publishing application once protection of the blog post is confirmed. A blog publishing application is any software application which allows for the creation and publication of a blog post such as a photo blog post an image blog post a text blog post a music blog post a video blog post or the like. The present invention allows third party blog publishing applications to provide copywriting ability and recording capability by incorporating the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API into the third party blog publishing applications. After a user has created a blog post within a blog publishing application but before the blog post is published the user may select an option to obtain copyright protection for the blog post prior to publication from within the blog publishing application and without exiting the blog publishing application. When the copyright protection option is selected the user may choose to register the unpublished blog post with the CopyRightNow system or pursue copyright registration with the United States Copyright Office. CopyRightNow registration allow for the unpublished blog post to be recorded with the CopyRightNow system along with information relevant to memorializing the creation of the blog post such as date and time of creation the name of the author type of blog post description of the blog post etc. Information relevant to CopyRightNow registration may be manually entered at the time of recording or obtained from a CopyRightNow user account linked to the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API or constructed through combining manually entered information and information obtained from a CopyRightNow user account. Once the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API receives electronic confirmation of the registration of the blog post with the CopyRightNow system the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API automatically publishes the protected blog post through the blog publishing application. If the user chooses to pursue copyright registration with the United States Copyright Office before publishing the blog post the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API allows the user to automatically assemble and file an electronic copyright application with the United States Copyright Office and pay the associated application fees from within the blog publishing application. Information relevant to the United States copyright application may be manually entered at the time that a copyright application is requested or obtained from a CopyRightNow user account linked to the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API that contains the user s information or assembled by combining manually entered information and information obtained from a CopyRightNow user account. Once the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API receives electronic confirmation of the submission of the electronic copyright application from the United States Copyright Office the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API automatically publishes the protected blog post through the blog publishing application. The information pertinent to the copyright application may also be recorded in the CopyRightNow system. The CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API may also have the ability to submit the copyright application to a law firm for review before submission to the United States Copyright Office and before publicizing the blog post. The CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API provides a portable interface for obtaining copyright protection for a blog post from within a blog publishing application before the blog post is published and then automatically publishing the blog post through the blog publishing application once protection of the blog post is confirmed.

For the purpose of illustration the present invention is shown in the preferred embodiment of an improved system and method for providing copyright protection for a blog post from within a blog publishing application before the blog post is published and then automatically publishing the blog post once copyright protection is confirmed. Copyright protection is provided by electronically preparing and submitting an electronic copyright application to the United Stated Copyright Office along with the appropriate fees and or by registering the blog post with an online accessible database which memorializes the creation of the blog post before the blog post is published. These embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Referring now to the most preferred embodiment of the invention in and the process flow and examples of screen views of the Blog Post Protection Pathway invention are illustrated. shows an initial flowchart demonstrating the process flow of the system and method provided by the present invention. illustrates the A branch continuation of the initial flowchart of and describes the process flow for protecting a blog post using the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API without publishing the blog post. depicts the B branch continuation of the initial flowchart of and describes the process flow for protecting and publishing a blog post using the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API. shows screen views of various examples of blog publishing applications. displays a screen view of a home screen of a blog publishing application which is Tumblr showing a CopyRightNow blog post button . demonstrates a screen view of a blog post creation window of a blog publishing application showing a CopyRightNow blog path selection button . shows a screen view of a blog post creation window of a blog publishing application showing a CopyRightNow blog path selection window . displays a screen view of a blog post creation window of a blog publishing application showing a CopyRightNow protect and publish blog registration information window . illustrates a screen view of a blog post creation window of a blog publishing application showing a CopyRightNow terms and service agreement window . shows a screen view of a blog post creation window of a blog publishing application showing a CopyRightNow blog post registration payment window . depicts a screen view of a blog post creation window of a blog publishing application showing a CopyRightNow blog post submission confirmation window .

In further detail referring now to the invention of an initial flowchart demonstrating the initial process flow of the system and method provided by the present invention is shown. The process of the present invention begins with the first step when a user accesses a blog publishing application or platform such as Tumblr Wordpress Blogger or the like. A blog publishing application is any software application that allows a user to create and publish a blog post. In the second step within the blog publishing application the user accesses a blog post creation page in which content such as photos videos audio text or the like may be combined into an unpublished blog post. After the user completes the unpublished blog post in the third step the user enters into the CopyRightNow system and makes a CopyRightNow option choice from three available options. The first option is the protect only option which is described in the A branch of the initial flowchart and allows for a blog post to be protected by registering the blog post with the CopyRightNow system and or submitting a copyright registration application to the United States Copyright Office without publishing the blog post. The second option is the publish only option in which the blog post is published through the blog publishing application without the involvement of the CopyRightNow system. The third option is the protect and publish option which is described in the B branch of the flowchart and allows for a blog post to be protected by registering the blog post with the CopyRightNow system and or by submitting a copyright registration application to the United States Copyright Office and then automatically publishes the blog post once the submission of the of the copyright registration application is confirmed.

In further detail referring now to the protect only flowchart is shown. The protect only flowchart is a continuation of the process flow of the initial flowchart of and illustrates the protect only option of A branch . In starting with the A branch continuation circle the protect only flowchart describes the process flow for the protect only option which allows for the user to seek copyright protection of a blog post using the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API without publishing the blog post. The first protect only step of the protect only flowchart is when a user chooses to protect a blog post using the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API. Any changes that are made to the blog post after seeking protection through the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API will not be reflected in the CopyRightNow system or at the United States Copyright Office. Next the user must make a CopyRightNow protect only pathway choice in which the user chooses between the CopyRightNow protect only Copyright Office registration pathway and the CopyRightNow protect only registration pathway . In the CopyRightNow protect only Copyright Office registration pathway the user enters protect only Copyright Office registration information . Next the user agrees to the protect only Copyright Office terms and service agreement . Next the user verifies protect only Copyright Office registration information and price and enters the user s CopyRightNow password . The CopyRightNow profile is linked to a user s CopyRightNow account and stores user information associated with the user which is submitted with any copyright application or registration of a blog post. The CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API assembles a final United States Copyright Office digital submission and payment is processed through a third party merchant system . Once the payment is processed the user can manage the submitted content through the CopyRightNow system. The CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API then electronically constructs a United States Copyright Office electronic registration application and automatically submits the application to the United States Copyright Office and pays the requisite fees to the United States Copyright Office. The CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API then receives electronic confirmation of the submission from the United States Copyright Office and provides the user with verification of the submission . In the CopyRightNow protect only registration pathway the user enters protect only CopyRightNow registration information . Next the user agrees to the protect only CopyRightNow terms and service agreement . Next the user verifies protect only CopyRightNow registration information and price and enters the user s CopyRightNow password . The CopyRightNow profile is linked to a user s CopyRightNow account and stores user information associated with the user which is submitted with any copyright application or registration of a blog post. Next the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API assembles a final CopyRightNow digital submission . The user can then manage the submitted content through the CopyRightNow dashboard .

In further detail referring now to the protect and publish flowchart is shown. The protect and publish flowchart is a continuation of the process flow of the initial flowchart of and illustrates the protect and publish option of B branch . In starting with the B branch continuation circle the protect and publish flowchart describes the process flow for the protect and publish option which allows for the user to seek copyright protection of a blog post using the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API and to automatically publish the blog post after receiving confirmation of copyright protection. The first protect and publish step of the protect and publish flowchart is when a user chooses to protect and publish a blog post using the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API. Next the user must make a CopyRightNow protect and publish pathway choice in which the user chooses between the CopyRightNow protect and publish Copyright Office registration pathway and the CopyRightNow protect and publish registration pathway . In the CopyRightNow protect and publish Copyright Office registration pathway the user enters protect and publish Copyright Office registration information . Next the user agrees to the protect and publish Copyright Office terms and service agreement . Next the user verifies protect and publish Copyright Office registration information and price and enters the user s CopyRightNow password . The CopyRightNow profile is linked to a user s CopyRightNow account and stores user information associated with the user which is submitted with any copyright application or registration of a blog post. The CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API assembles a protect and publish final United States Copyright Office digital submission and the protect and publish payment is processed through a third party merchant system . Once the protect and publish payment is processed the user can manage the submitted content through the CopyRightNow dashboard . The CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API then electronically constructs a protect and publish United States Copyright Office electronic registration application and automatically submits the application to the United States Copyright Office paying the requisite fees to the United States Copyright Office. The CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API then receives electronic confirmation of the submission from the United States Copyright Office provides the user with verification of the protect and publish submission and automatically publishes the protected blog post to the blog publishing application unless the user opts out of the automatic publication. In the CopyRightNow protect and publish registration pathway the user enters protect and publish CopyRightNow registration information . Next the user agrees to the protect and publish CopyRightNow terms and service agreement . Next the user verifies protect and publish CopyRightNow registration information and price and enters the user s CopyRightNow password . The CopyRightNow profile is linked to a user s CopyRightNow account and stores user information associated with the user which is submitted with any copyright application or registration of a blog post. Next the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API assembles a protect and publish final CopyRightNow digital submission . The user can then manage the submitted protect and publish content through the CopyRightNow dashboard . The protect and publish CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API then automatically publishes the protected blog post to the blog publishing application unless the user opted out of the automatic publication.

In further detail referring now to screen views of blog publishing applications are shown. In the login screen of the blog publishing application Tumblr is illustrated. Also in . the login screen of the blog publishing application Wordpress is displayed. Additionally in the login screen of the blog publishing application Blogger is shown. Moreover in the login screen of the blog publishing application Weebly is depicted.

In further detail referring now to the invention of and a screen view of a blog publishing application which is Tumblr with integrated CopyRightNow functionality is shown. depicts a home screen of a blog publishing application with blog posts . The CopyRightNow blog post button appears within the action menu of a blog post . The user may initiate the creation of various types of blog posts including text posts photo posts quote posts link posts chat posts audio posts video posts or the like by selecting a blog creation button from the blog post creation menu . When the user selects a blog creation button such as the photo blog post creation button in a blog post creation window with integrated CopyRightNow functionality which is shown in is displayed within the blog publishing application . In a photo blog post is shown in the process of being created within the blog post creation window . The photo blog post may be published without CopyRightNow protection by selection the publish button . The CopyRightNow blog path selection button is shown within the blog post creation window . When the user selects the CopyRightNow blog path selection button of the blog path selection window which is shown in is displayed within the blog publishing application . In the CopyRightNow blog path selection window the user is presented with two options the CopyRightNow protect only pathway and the CopyRightNow protect and publish pathway . When the user selects the CopyRightNow protect only the steps of the CopyRightNow protect and publish pathway are performed without automatic publication once copyright protection is confirmed. When the user selects the CopyRightNow protect and publish pathway of the CopyRightNow protect and publish registration information window which is shown in is displayed within the blog publishing application . The CopyRightNow protect and publish registration information window allows the user to enter information pertinent to copyright protection. The title of the blog post is entered into the CopyRightNow blog post title field . A description of the blog post is entered into the CopyRightNow blog post description field . The year of completion of the blog post is entered into the CopyRightNow blog post year field . The CopyRightNow protect and publish registration information window also allows the user to enter the author of the blog post into the CopyRightNow blog post author field the email address of the author of the blog post into the CopyRightNow blog post email field the address of the author of the blog post into the CopyRightNow blog post address field the city of the author of the blog post into the CopyRightNow blog post city field the country of the author of the blog post into the CopyRightNow blog post country field or import this information from the user s CopyRightNow profile. The user may return to the previous window by selecting the CopyRightNow protect and publish registration information window back button . The user may move on to the next step in the process by selecting the CopyRightNow protect and publish registration information window next button . When the user selects the CopyRightNow protect and publish registration information window next button of the CopyRightNow terms and service agreement window of is displayed within the blog publishing application . The CopyRightNow terms and service agreement window displays the certification list to which the user may agree by selecting the certification agreement checkbox . The user may also browse the CopyRightNow terms and conditions by selecting the CopyRightNow terms and conditions link . The user may agree to the CopyRightNow terms and conditions by selecting the CopyRightNow terms and conditions agreement checkbox . The user may return to the previous window by selecting the CopyRightNow terms and service agreement window back button . The user may move on to the next step in the process by selecting the CopyRightNow terms and service agreement window next button . When the user selects the CopyRightNow terms and service agreement window next button of the CopyRightNow blog post registration payment window of is displayed within the blog publishing application . The CopyRightNow blog post registration payment window allows the user to review and verify information which was entered earlier by the user or retrieved from the user s profile by displaying that information within a CopyRightNow blog post registration information field . If the information is correct and if the user agrees to the blog post registration payment amount the user enters his her CopyRightNow password into the CopyRightNow password field . The user may return to the previous window by selecting the CopyRightNow blog post registration payment window back button . Selecting the CopyRightNow blog post registration submission button instructs the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API to assemble an electronic copyright application for the blog post using the supplied information and to automatically submit the copyright application to the United States Copyright office along with the appropriate registration fees. When the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API receives electronic confirmation of the submission of the copyright registration application and fees the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway automatically publishes the protected blog post to the blog publishing application and the CopyRightNow blog post submission confirmation window of is displayed within the blog publishing application . The information relevant to copyright protection may also be registered and recorded with the CopyRightNow system. Selecting the CopyRightNow blog post submission confirmation window OK button returns the user to the home screen of the blog publishing application illustrated in .

The construction details of the invention as shown in and are that the improved method and system for providing copyright protection for a blog post from within a third party blog publishing application comprises a CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API which is software that is incorporated into a third party blog publishing application and which runs from within the third party blog publishing application without exiting the blog publishing application. The CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API interacts with the CopyRightNow system and exchanges information with the CopyRightNow system. The CopyRightNow system comprises one or more web servers with one or more databases of user data software to assemble copyright applications software to process payments software to interact with the United States Copyright Office and software to run the CopyRightNow application. After a user has created a blog post within a blog publishing application but before the blog post is published the user may seek copyright protection by activating the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API from within the blog publishing application and without exiting the blog publishing application. User information stored within the CopyRightNow system s user database may be downloaded for use by the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API or the user may manually enter this information. Before publishing the blog post the user may choose to register the work with the CopyRightNow system or pursue copyright registration with the United States Copyright Office. When the user selects CopyRightNow registration the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API gathers any additional necessary information that is not available in the CopyRightNow database through user entry collects payment and uploads the blog post to the CopyRightNow system along with information relevant to copyright protection. The user may later access the uploaded content through the CopyRightNow application. When the user selects copyright registration with the United States Copyright Office the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API gathers any additional necessary information that is not available in the CopyRightNow database through user entry collects payment and uploads the blog post to the CopyRightNow system along with information relevant to copyright protection. The CopyRightNow system utilizes software to generate an electronic copyright application and then electronically submits the generated copyright application to the United States Copyright office along with the appropriate application and registration fees. The CopyRightNow system receives electronic confirmation of the submission of the generated copyright application from the United States Copyright Office and then relays the confirmation to the CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API which is running on the blog publishing application and then automatically publishes the blog post through the blog publishing application. The user may later access the submitted content through the CopyRightNow system or the CopyRightNow application. The CopyRightNow Blog Post Protection Pathway API provides a portable interface for obtaining copyright protection for a blog post from within a blog publishing application before the blog post is published and then automatically publishing the blog post through the blog publishing application once copyright protection of the blog post is confirmed.

The advantages of the present invention include without limitation that it provides an improved method and system for providing copyright protection before publishing a blog post from within a running blog publishing application and without requiring the blog publishing application to be closed which may result in the loss of the blog post. Additionally the present invention promotes the registration of copyrights by providing a quick and easy means of registering a copyright on a blog post before publishing the blog post. Furthermore the present invention has the advantage of collecting information relevant to the successful enforcement of copyright protection. Moreover the present invention allows blog post creators to protect their original works from the blog publishing application in which the blog post was created allowing blog posts to be readily protected before publication.

In broad embodiment the present invention relates generally to an improved method and system for providing copyright protection for blog posts prior to publication from within a running blog publishing application by automatically assembling and submitting an electronic copyright application for the blog post to the United States Copyright Office and then automatically publishing the blog post through the blog publishing application once submission of the electronic copyright application for the blog post is confirmed. More particularly the present invention relates generally to a method and system for providing copyright protection for blog posts prior to publication from within a running blog publishing application by automatically assembling and electronically submitting a copyright application for the blog post to the United States Copyright Office through the use of a portable application programming interface which may be utilized by third party blog publishing applications and then automatically publishing the blog post through the blog publishing application once submission of the electronic copyright application for the blog post is confirmed. Additionally the present invention relates generally to a method and system of registering a blog post prior to publication in order to memorialize the creation of the blog post from within a running blog publishing application through the use of a portable application programming interface which may be utilized by third party blog publishing applications and then automatically publishing the blog post through the blog publishing application once registration of the blog post is confirmed.

While the foregoing written description of the invention enables one of ordinary skill to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations combinations and equivalents of the specific embodiment method and examples herein. The invention should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiments methods and examples but by all embodiments and methods that are within the scope and spirit of the invention as claimed.

