---

title: Surfacing cross platform applications
abstract: A utility application store may be configured to present an interface displaying multiple applications that are available from the utility application store. By accessing the interface of the utility application store, a utility supplier may, with a single request, initiate installation or activation of an application on multiple utility meters or other smart sensors in a utility communication network. The utility application store may be configured to provide notification of the availability of applications for utility meters or other smart sensors, consumer computing devices, and/or utility supplier back office computing devices. The utility application store may include one or more distributed applications that include a first portion configured for execution by a utility meter and one or more other portions configured for execution by another computing device (e.g., a personal computer, mobile device, utility supplier back office server, cloud service, or the like).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342288&OS=09342288&RS=09342288
owner: Itron, Inc.
number: 09342288
owner_city: Liberty Lake
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130531
---
Utility meters such as electric water and natural gas meters have evolved from isolated devices that simply measure utility consumption and display a consumption reading to so called smart meters that are connected devices capable of reporting resource consumption readings automatically over a utility communication network. Such meters utilize increasingly complex and specialized software to perform required functions. Unfortunately the software update process is a difficult one in which administrators utilize tools that are configured for download of specific software code. Considerable time is spent by network professionals and each update is a customized event requiring consideration and preparation.

In some instances utility companies may not even be aware that software or updates are available for devices in their network. Thus in order to install or update software across their entire network a utility company must first learn that compatible software is available for devices in their network. Consumers are generally completely unaware of what software is running on the meters servicing the properties and play no role in its selection and operation.

Once installed the software has been designed to execute on the smart meter to perform metering functionality and to report metering data to devices in the utility s communication network. Smart meter software has been restricted from communication with devices outside the utility s communication network.

As discussed above software for smart utility meters is currently only available directly from the respective manufacturers of the smart utility meters with different manufacturers making the software available in different ways. Utility companies currently lack a centralized location from which they can easily obtain software for the smart utility meters and other devices in their utility communication networks. Existing systems also lack any mechanism to notify utility companies customers and other users when applications are available for their smart utility meters consumer devices and other computing devices. Still further existing utility smart meter applications are incapable of communicating with and leveraging applications running on consumer computing devices utility backend computing devices and other web services. This patent application describes a utility application store comprising a repository of applications available for download and installation on one or more smart utility meters or other smart sensors. The term smart sensor means a measuring and or sensing equipment which measures or senses physical parameters e.g. energy power voltage power factor temperature gas pressure flow rate etc. and has the ability to communicate this information via a network. By way of example and not limitation smart sensors may include utility meters e.g. electricity water or gas meters relays repeaters smart grid routers transformers or any such utility network computing device. The utility application store may additionally or alternatively include applications available for computing devices other than utility network computing devices such as personal computers e.g. desktop computers laptop computers etc. mobile devices smartphones tablets etc. servers routers access points or the like.

As used herein the term application or app means any software or firmware capable of executing on a computing device. Examples of applications include without limitation an operating system an update to an operating system a software program an update of a software program an add on to a software program a patch a plugin a driver a firmware image or a firmware update.

In one aspect the utility application store may be configured to present an interface displaying multiple applications that are available from the utility application store. By accessing the interface of the utility application store a utility supplier may with a single request initiate installation or activation of one or more applications on multiple utility meters or other smart sensors in the utility s communication network. The multiple utility meters or other smart sensors may comprise a predefined subset e.g. all meters of a certain model all meters in a certain geographic region etc. of utility meters in the utility s communication network. In some examples a single application may be installed at a time. However in other examples multiple different applications may be installed in a batch or sequentially.

In another aspect a utility application store or other service may be configured to provide notification of the availability of applications for utility meters or other smart sensors consumer computing devices and or utility back office computing devices. For example upon receiving a request to install an application on a consumer computing device e.g. personal computer or mobile device the utility application store or other service may identify an associated application that is available for a utility meter of a user of the consumer computing device. The utility application store or other service may then send a notification of the availability of the associated application to a utility supplier servicing the utility meter and or to the consumer computing device.

In yet another aspect the utility application store may include a distributed application that includes a first portion configured for execution by a utility meter or other smart sensor and a second portion configured for execution by another computing device e.g. a personal computer mobile device utility back office server cloud service or the like . In one example a smart utility meter may have the first portion of the distributed application stored in memory and executable by one or more processors to configure the smart utility meter to cause the second portion of the distributed application installed at a remote computing resource to perform at least a portion of an operation.

Any or all of the foregoing aspects may be performed or made possible by a utility application store such as that described herein. However certain aspects described herein may also be accomplished without the need for a utility application store. While many of the examples may be understood in the context of traditional utility supply chains in which utility providing companies e.g. energy generation companies supply resources to utility distribution companies which in turn provide the resources to end customers. The techniques described herein also apply to models in which utility suppliers supply resources to consumers directly or via retailers vendors as opposed to through a utility distribution company. As used herein the term utility supplier means any provider or distributor of a resource including without limitation a utility providing company a utility distribution company a smart city a municipality a retailer or vendor a co op a micro grid or an individual.

This brief overview is provided for the reader s convenience and is not intended to limit the scope of the claims nor the proceeding sections. Furthermore the techniques described in detail below may be implemented in a number of ways and in a number of contexts. Several example implementations are provided with reference to the following figures as described below in more detail. However the following implementations and context are but few of many.

The app store repository may include applications designed to run on smart sensors developed by multiple different hardware manufacturers. The app store repository may also include applications designed to run on one or more servers of the utility supplier consumer computing devices or other computing devices. The applications may have been developed by an entity administering the application store one or more utility meter or hardware manufacturers one or more utility suppliers and or one or more independent software vendors. As such the app store may serve as a central source for all applications that a utility supplier needs for all of the devices in the utility provider s communication network. While the application describes the utility supplier s communication network as being owned or administered by the utility provider in other examples a separate entity may manage or administer the communication network over which smart sensors and other devices communicate.

Referring back to a user e.g. a utility supplier employee consumer or other user may access the utility application store using the computing device . Using a web browser or an app store client program resident on computing device the user may access a website or other interface to the utility application store . The interface may present a plurality of applications that are available from the app store . In the example of the interface includes multiple tabs each representing a different category of applications available from the app store . In the illustrated example four tabs are shown meter apps utility apps consumer apps and other. In response to selection of each tab the interface will display a list or otherwise present applications corresponding to the selected tab category of application. The interface may also include a search field that may be used to search within the selected tab for applications relevant to an input search term. However the interface may be configured in any other way suitable to present the applications that are available from the app store . For instance instead of having multiple tabs for different categories of users on a single interface separate interfaces may be presented to users based on their roles. For instance utility personnel may be presented with only applications for utility computing devices while consumers may be presented with only applications for consumer computing devices.

In a user has selected the meter apps tab and has input the search query 100 Series. Thus the interface displays a list of applications for smart meters that are relevant to the search query. From this list the user may select one or more applications to install or activate. By electing to install an application e.g. by selection of a download or install control the user may initiate download or otherwise cause transmission of the application to one or more devices e.g. meters in this example . By selecting to activate an application the user may initiate download cause transmission or obtain a credential e.g. key password etc. usable to activate or unlock an application that is already installed though locked on the one or more devices. In the illustrated example each application is shown with the option to install activate the application. However in other examples separate controls for install and activate may be provided or the interface may only show the relevant controls. In the illustrated example the user has selected to install or activate the application OS 2.0 Voltage Quality Add On. In some examples selection of the install or activate control alone may be sufficient to initiate the installation or activation. However in other examples in response to selection of the install or activate control the app store may give the user an option to purchase the application.

In some embodiments the interface may additionally include another tab not shown or other interface to display the applications currently installed by the user on devices of the user or on devices of an entity with which the user is associated. When present this tab or interface may also include a list of devices associated with the user or entity and or provide the ability to update uninstall deactivate the applications for each device individually for classes of device e.g. device type model series etc. for devices in a certain geographic area or the like.

In some examples the app store may have prior knowledge of the devices associated with the user or an account of the user. In that case the Device Type s control and or No. of Devices field may be prepopulated with the types and numbers of devices associated with the user or user account. For instance in the example of if the app store system is in communication with the utility supplier or otherwise has access to information about the device types and number of each type of device in the utility communication network the app store may be able to determine which devices in the utility supplier s communication network are compatible with the selected application. The app store may then prepopulate those device types and the number such devices in the purchase interface greatly simplifying the process of purchasing applications across all applicable devices in the utility communication network.

Once the device types and number of devices have been specified or prepopulated the purchase interface may display a Total Cost in this case 99 000 for installation of the application on the specified devices. The purchase interface also includes a Delivery Method control allowing the user to specify a preferred delivery method of the application or credential. For instance in the illustrated example the user is given the option to have the application or credential transmitted directly to the devices over the utility communication network or to have the application or credential transmitted to the utility supplier for subsequent distribution to the individual devices. The purchase interface also includes a Payment Method control to allow the user to specify how to pay for the applications. In the user is presented with options to Charge to Account e.g. a credit account with the app store or a third party creditor Charge to Credit Card and or Prepaid. The Prepaid option may indicate that the user has previously paid for a certain number or dollar value of applications. The prepayment may have taken the form of a one time payment e.g. a bulk application purchase a credit for purchasing another product e.g. three free applications with the purchase of a new meter a subscription e.g. unlimited free apps with subscription a service or maintenance agreement e.g. free updates and security patches for 1 year with the purchase of a new software package or the like. The user may then complete the purchase and initiate the installation or activation by selecting the Buy Now control.

The payment interface may also include a link to another app store e.g. an app store associated with a particular consumer device such as the iTunes store or the Android store . In some embodiments the user may be able to pay for the application from the interface and then navigate to the other app store e.g. iTunes store or the Android store to download the application. In other embodiments the user may select the link to navigate to the other app store to both purchase and download the application.

In the example of a user e.g. a utility supplier employee selects to purchase an add on application for 100 X25 Repeaters at a price of 4.99 per application for a total of 499. The application in this example may comprise an add on that allows a radio frequency RF repeater to function as a WiFi hotspot. The add on may be a separate application that is installed on the repeater or may simply be a key password or other credential that unlocks functionality of an application that is already installed on the repeater.

The memory may also include a plurality of modules to implement various functions of the utility application store . For instance an application store interface module may be configured to generate a graphical user interface e.g. interface presenting the applications that are available in the application repository . The application store interface module may make the interface available to one or more users by for example publishing the interface to a website accessible by a browser of a client computing device. When accessed by the computing device the application store interface module may serve the interface to the computing device displaying the multiple applications that are available along with controls usable to request installation or activation of the applications.

A verification module may be configured to verify compatibility of one or more applications with one or more computing devices. In response to receiving a request to install or activate an application a verification module may verify that the requested application is compatible with each of the devices specified in the request. The verification module may make this verification with reference to a device compatibility index the application index if present and or metadata stored in the application repository . For instance the request may include an identifier for each of the devices on which the application is to be installed. In that case verifying that a compatible version of the application exists for the devices comprises determining from the identifier of each of the one or more devices a type of each of the one or more devices and determining whether a compatible version of the application exists for the determined type of each of the one or more devices. Alternatively the type of the devices may be specified directly in the request e.g. each of the device types specified in the payment interface .

Additionally or alternatively if the utility application store has access to information about the devices in the utility communication network it may make this compatibility verification prior to presenting the available applications to the user. For instance the memory may store a topology module that is in communication with the utility supplier . The topology module may maintain information about the device types current software versions and or locations of devices in the utility supplier s communication network. Alternatively the memory may maintain a record of all device types for which the user has previously purchased applications and the versions of applications purchased. In either case the user may be presented only with applications that are compatible with devices in the utility s own communication network.

A provisioning module may be configured to prepare the application or credential for transmission to the one or more smart sensors or other devices by for example segmenting the application or credential into multiple segments compressing the application or credential and or encrypting the application or credential. The provisioning module may also generate credentials e.g. based on a private key a random password generator or the like or may provide existing credentials e.g. passwords or certificates to activate the requested application.

A payment module may be configured to provide a payment interface e.g. payment interfaces etc. usable to allow a user to purchase an application. The payment module may also be configured to receive and process payment information generate appropriate billing information and or update user account information based on the received payments.

Once an application has been purchased a control module may cause transmission of the application or credential according to the delivery method specified in the request if any . For instance in the case of a meter application the control module may initiate transmission directly to the one or more smart sensors via the utility communication network. Alternatively the control module may initiate transmission to the utility supplier or any other specified destination for subsequent distribution to the individual smart sensors. Initiating transmission may include the application store performing the transmission or the application store instructing another computing device e.g. a distribution computing device not shown to perform the transmission.

In some embodiments the memory may also include a notification module configured to provide notification of the availability of applications for utility meters or other smart sensors consumer computing devices and or utility back office computing devices. Additional details of the notification module and its functionality are described below in the section entitled Example Notification of Application Availability. 

The utility application store also includes one or more communication connections to enable the utility application store to communicate with other computing devices locally or over the network . Examples of communication connections include without limitation power line communication PLC connections Ethernet or other wired network connections cellular communication connections RF communication connections or the like. As such the utility application store also includes any ancillary hardware modules and or interfaces associated with or needed for the operation of the particular communication connections.

As shown in the example of the smart sensor may include a radio and a processing unit . The radio may provide two way RF communication with other smart sensors in the autonomous routing area and or other computing devices via the network . The processing unit may include one or more processors and memory and or other hardware device s such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a gate array or other hardware based logic device. The memory may include an operating system OS and one or more applications. In the illustrated example the memory includes a first application e.g. a Voltage Quality Application to monitor voltage quality of service provided to the smart sensor and a second application e.g. a Home Area Network Application allowing the smart sensor to interface with a home area network hub installed in a user s home .

In embodiments in which the smart sensor comprises a utility meter the smart sensor may include a metrology module configured to receive consumption data of a resource e.g. electricity water or gas at a site of the meter. The metrology module may report the consumption data to the central office by RF transmission via the radio . The consumption data may be formatted and or packetized in a manner or protocol for transmission over the utility communication network.

In addition to the radio smart sensor may include one or more other network connections such as power line communications PLC connections Ethernet or other wired network connections RF connections cellular communication connections or the like. As such the smart sensor also includes any ancillary hardware modules and or interfaces associated with or needed for the operation of the particular network connections.

The OS the first application the second application the metrology module and even software aspects of the radio are all examples of applications that may be executable by the smart sensor . Such applications may be installed on the smart sensor by from the utility application store . The memory may also include a portion of a distributed application other or related portions of which are executable by other computing devices e.g. the utility application store central office other smart sensors or other web services to perform common or complimentary functions. Additional details of distributed applications are described below in the section entitled Example Distributed Applications. 

Memories and are shown to include software functionality configured as one or more modules. However the modules are intended to represent example divisions of the software for purposes of discussion and are not intended to represent any type of requirement or required method manner or necessary organization. Accordingly while various modules are discussed their functionality and or similar functionality could be arranged differently e.g. combined into a fewer number of modules broken into a larger number of modules etc. .

While detailed examples of certain computing devices e.g. utility application store and smart sensors are described above it should be understood that even those computing devices not described in detail may include one or more processors and memory storing processor executable instructions to implement the functionalities they are described as performing. Certain computing devices may additionally or alternatively include one or more hardware components e.g. application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays systems on a chip and the like to implement some or all of the functionalities they are described as performing.

The various memories described herein are examples of computer readable media and may take the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM or flash RAM. Computer readable media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data for execution by one or more processors of a computing device. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to phase change memory PRAM static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM other types of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other non transmission medium that can be used to store information for access by a computing device. As defined herein computer readable media does not include communication media such as modulated data signals and carrier waves.

The flow of operations may begin at block with the first computing resource serving an interface displaying multiple applications that are available for download by a second computing resource. In some examples the first computing resource may be administered by a first entity e.g. an application store hosting company and the second computing resource may be administered by a second entity e.g. a utility supplier consumer etc. that is different than the first entity. In one example the first computing resource comprises one or more servers of an application store e.g. utility application store having multiple applications that are available for installation or activation and the second computing resource comprises a personal computer a mobile device a utility meter reading device or other computing device e.g. other computing device . The one or more smart sensors e.g. smart sensors may include a predefined subset of a plurality of smart sensors in a utility supplier s communication network such as all smart sensors of a certain type all smart sensors within a geographical area etc. In some embodiments at least some of the smart sensors may include one or more smart utility meters.

At the first computing resource e.g. the utility application store receives a request from the second computing resource e.g. computing device to install or activate an application on one or more smart sensors e.g. one or more of smart sensors . In one example the request may be in the form of selection of the install activate control of the interface . In some instances the application may include instructions to access metrology data collected by the smart sensor e.g. to process the metrology data to make the metrology data available etc. .

The request may include an identifier for each of the one or more smart sensors. In some instances the identifier may be a serial number or unique identifier of individual smart sensors. However in other instances the identifier may be a model name or number a class or category of devices or other indicator of device type. At the first computing resource e.g. utility application store configures the application or a credential to activate the application for the one or more smart sensors based at least in part on the request. Configuring the application or credential for the one or more smart sensors may include for example determining from the identifier of each of the one or more smart sensors a compatible version of the application for each of the one or more smart sensors.

At the first computing resource e.g. utility application store may present a price for installation or activation of the application on the one or more smart sensors. The price may be presented in the form or as part of a purchase interface e.g. purchase interfaces or . At the first computing resource receives payment or agreement to pay for the installation or activation of the application on the one or more smart sensors. In one example payment or agreement to pay may be in the form of selection of a Buy Now or other purchase control on the purchase interface.

At the first computing resource e.g. utility application store may prepare the application or credential for transmission to the one or more smart sensors by segmenting the application or credential into multiple segments compressing the application or credential and or encrypting the application or credential. The specific segmenting compressing and or encrypting operations may vary depending on the nature and requirements of the utility communication network and the selected delivery method. For instance if the application or credential is to be delivered to a utility supplier fewer preparation operations may be needed than if the application or credential is to be delivered to the individual smart sensors.

At the first computing resource e.g. utility application store determines how to deliver the application or credential e.g. based on a delivery method specified in the request based on a default delivery method a delivery method previously specified by the user etc. and causes transmission of the application or the credential to activate the application to the one or more smart sensors. Depending on the method of delivery specified in the request if any causing transmission of the application or the credential to the one or more smart sensors may include at transmitting the application or the credential to the one or more smart sensors directly and or at transmitting the application or credential to the second computing resource e.g. computing device or to another computing resource e.g. utility supplier for distribution to the one or more smart sensors. In one example transmitting the application or the credential to the one or more smart sensors comprises sending a message including the application or the credential to the one or more smart sensors via a utility communication network.

Like the architecture of architecture includes the utility application store having the repository of applications available for installation on one or more utility meters or other smart sensors . The architecture also includes the utility supplier in communication with the utility application store and the smart sensors via the network . However the architecture of this example also includes a consumer computing device such as a personal computer or mobile device and one or more other services . The other services represent one or more computing devices and may include web services that provide data e.g. weather services sensor networks resource pricing data current resource demand data etc. or computing resources e.g. cloud storage or processing resources web hosting resources analytic processing calculations validation authentication payment processing etc. . Other services may also include retailers manufacturers suppliers software developers municipalities or other entities that may provide or desire notice of the existence of applications for various computing devices.

The app store repository may include applications M some of which may be designed to run on smart sensors and some of which may be designed to run on one or more servers of the utility supplier consumer computing devices or other computing devices or other services . The applications may have been developed by an entity administering the application store one or more utility meter or hardware manufacturers one or more utility suppliers one or more independent software vendors and or one or more providers of the other services .

When the utility application store receives a request from a computing device to install an application the utility application store may be configured to notify the requesting computing device of the existence of one or more complimentary applications. Additionally or alternatively the utility application store may be configured to notify other computing devices of the existence of the requested application and or the complimentary application s . A complimentary application is one that is somehow related or associated with another application. In some instances a complimentary application may be configured to receive and or provide additional functionality and or data to from another application e.g. an application for a utility meter that provides data to populate a complimentary smartphone application . In other instances a complimentary application may be one that includes a feature similar or supplemental to a feature included in another application e.g. an application that allows a utility meter to connect to a home area network via WiFi may be considered to be complimentary to an application that allows a utility meter to function as a WiFi hotspot .

Referring back to some of the applications stored in the application repository are designated as being complimentary applications e.g. applications and . This complimentary designation may be made in for example the application index or metadata associated with the applications . Thus upon receiving a request from a computing device for a first application the utility application store may notify one or more other computing devices of the existence of complimentary applications and . Additionally or alternatively the utility application store may notify the one or more other computing devices of the existence of the first application and or that the first application has been installed on the first computing device.

In the illustrated example the notification A also includes an indication of two specific customers Bob Jones and Cindy Johnson that have recently installed the application and a total number of customers that have installed the application. This information is shown underlined in to indicate that additional information is available by for example selecting the underlined text. By selecting the underlined text the utility supplier may obtain additional information about the specific customers details of the installations and devices on which the application was installed the number of installations the times of installations and the like. By providing this information the utility supplier is able to determine how many customers would benefit from the installation of the meter application.

The notification A also includes a price field indicating a price of the application and a preview control allowing the user to preview the application prior to purchasing. The preview control may allow the user to link to screenshots description and or demonstrations of the application. Additionally or alternatively the preview control may allow the user to install a demo or trial version of the application. A purchase control such the illustrated Buy Now button may allow the user to purchase and install the application quickly and easily directly from the notification. Additionally or alternatively the notification may include a link to the utility application store in order to install or activate the application.

In some instances such as when the user accesses the notification from a personal computer the customer may be able to purchase download and install the application directly from the notification to the personal computer. However in other instances such as when the user accesses the notification from smartphone or other mobile device the user may need to navigate to an application store for the specific smartphone or mobile device e.g. the iTunes store or the Android store . Accordingly the notification B may include a link to one or more device or platform specific application stores from which the application can be obtained.

As in the example of above the notification C may include a purchase control which may allow the user to purchase and install the application quickly and easily directly from the notification. Additionally or alternatively the notification C may include a link to the utility application store in order to install or activate the application.

The foregoing examples envision that the customers and utility suppliers would each pay any applicable price for installing their own respective applications. In other embodiments the utility supplier may subsidize the consumer application or the consumers may subsidize installation of the application on their meters. That is the meter application may be priced such that by paying for and installing the meter application the consumer application may be offered to the customer for free and vice versa.

The flow of operations may begin at block when a first computing device e.g. utility application store receives a request to install a first application on a second computing device e.g. consumer device . At the first computing device may transmit the application a credential to activate the application or a link to download the application from another site e.g. a client specific application store . The application credential and or link may be transmitted to the requesting computing device e.g. consumer device or to another computing device e.g. smart sensor .

The first computing device may also at identify a second application which is associated with the first application and is configured for execution by a third computing device e.g. smart sensor utility supplier or another computing device not shown of a type other than the second computing device. At the first computing device sends a notification of availability of the second application to one or more computing devices e.g. consumer device computing device utility supplier or another computing device not shown .

In some examples the associated second application may comprise a complimentary application that is configured to receive and or provide additional functionality and or data to the first application. That is the first application may be configured to interface with the second application to employ functionality and or data of the second application or vice versa.

In the illustrated example the first computing device comprises utility application store the second computing device comprises consumer device and the third computing device comprises smart sensor . However in other examples the first second and third computing devices may comprise other computing devices. For instance the third computing device may comprise other types of utility network computing device associated with a user or user account. A smart sensor is one example of a utility network computing device but other examples of utility network computing devices include without limitation an electric vehicle charging station a distributed generation source a home area network device a transformer an appliance an inverter or the like. In another example the second computing device may comprise a utility computing device e.g. computing device and may request installation of an application on a customer s utility meter. Upon receiving the request the utility application store may send a notification to the consumer s smartphone i.e. the third computing device informing the user of the existence of a complimentary application for the user s smartphone. In yet another example a computing device other than utility application store may provide the notification of complimentary applications.

In some examples the notification may include a control usable to purchase the second application a control usable to cause installation of the second application on the third computing device and or a control usable to access an application store from which the first application is installable by computing device. illustrate three example notifications that may be provided at operation . However numerous other notifications may be used to notify other computing devices or users of the existence of applications.

At any of the computing devices having received the notification may present the notification on a display of the computing device. In the illustrated example only the computing device is shown as presenting the notification. However the other computing devices receiving the notification i.e. consumer device and or utility supplier may additionally or alternatively present the notification. Subsequently at the computing device s displaying the notification may receive user selection of a control of the notification presented on the display. Responsive to receiving the selection of the control at the computing device s e.g. computing device may request that the first computing device e.g. utility application store transmit the second application to the computing device computing device or to another computing device e.g. smart sensor .

At the first computing device may transmit the second application or a credential to activate the second application to the requesting computing device or as shown in to a device specified by the requesting device e.g. smart sensor .

The first computing device may also have at identified a third or subsequent application which is associated with the first and or second applications and is configured for execution by a fourth computing device e.g. utility supplier or another computing device not shown . In that case the notification displayed at may have included notification of the existence of both the second and third applications and the selection of the control received at may have applied to both the second and third applications. Accordingly the computing device s having displayed the notification e.g. computing device may at additionally request that the first computing device e.g. utility application store transmit the third application to another computing device e.g. utility supplier .

At the first computing device may transmit the third application or a credential to activate the third application to the device specified by the requesting device e.g. utility supplier .

In some examples at least some of the multiple different computing devices comprise different types of devices and or devices running different operating systems. In one example the first computing device comprises a smart utility meter and the one or more additional computing devices comprise a utility server a cloud computing resource a personal computer a mobile device an electric vehicle charger a distributed generation source a home area network device a transformer an appliance and or an inverter. In a further example a portion of the distributed application may operate on the smart utility meter and may communicate with another portion of the application which operates on a personal computer or mobile device. The portion of the distributed application running on the smart utility meter may access utility consumption data while the portion of the application running on the personal computer or mobile device may provide a user interface accessible by a consumer 

Like the architecture of architecture includes the utility application store having the repository of applications available for installation on one or more utility meters or other smart sensors . The architecture also includes the utility supplier the consumer computing device and the one or more other services in communication with the utility application store and the smart sensors via the network .

However in the architecture the application repository of utility application store includes applications . . . L collectively referred to as applications where L is any integer greater than or equal to 1. The applications include a subset of applications that together define a distributed application . As such the applications may be considered portions of the distributed application . Each portion of the distributed application may be configured to perform certain operations independently. Additionally each portion of the distributed application may also be configured to interface with one or more additional portions of the distributed application and to employ functionality and or data of the one or more additional portions of the distributed application.

The applications are also shown installed on multiple different devices of different types. For instance application the first portion of the distributed application is installed on smart meter . Application the second portion of the distributed application is installed on consumer device . Application the third portion of the distributed application is installed on the utility supplier . And application the fourth portion of the distributed application is installed on one of the other services . Each of these different devices on which a portion of the distributed application runs may comprise different hardware different operating system different software or versions of software or the like. However the various portions of the distributed application are able to interact with each other and leverage the data and or processing capabilities of the other portions of the distributed application. In some examples communication amongst the portions of the distributed application may be made possible by one or more application programming interfaces APIs presented by one or more portions of the distributed application that may be called by the other portions of the applications to implement certain functions and or obtain certain data.

In another example of a distributed application a first portion of a demand response application may execute at the central office. The first portion of the demand response application may receive data from a second portion of the application that resides at a weather service and or a third portion of the application that resides at an electricity distribution site. The data received from the second and third portions of the application may be used by the first portion to measure and predict resource demands. The first portion of the application may also communicate with a fourth portion of the application that resides on one or more utility meters control points or other smart sensors to regulate utility consumption at particular sites based on the measured and predicted resource demands.

The flow of operations may begin at block when a first computing device such as a utility meter or other smart sensor performs a first portion of an operation e.g. measuring resource consumption . At the first computing device communicates with a second portion of the distributed application installed at a remote computing resource to cause performance by the remote computing resource of a second portion of the operation. The communication may include a call to an API of the second portion of the distributed application or remote computing resource to cause the remote computing resource to provide data and or perform a processing operation. The remote computing resource may comprise consumer device utility supplier other computing service or any other computing resource. Some examples of other computing resources include without limitation a utility server a cloud computing resource a personal computer a mobile device an electric vehicle charger a distributed generation source a home area network device a transformer an appliance or an inverter.

At the remote computing resource may perform the second portion of the operation. The second portion of the operation may include any of a wide range of operations. In several non limiting examples the second operation may comprise presenting information on a display or obtaining weather information resource pricing information resource demand information resource supply information demographic data or validation data. Additionally or alternatively the second portion of the operation may comprise performing a processing operation e.g. an offloaded operation of the first portion of the distributed application .

At the first computing resource may receive a response from the remote computing resource. The response may include a result of performance of the second portion of the operation by the remote computing resource e.g. the data retrieved by execution of the second portion of the distributed application a processing result of execution of the second portion of the distributed application etc. . In some examples the result may include a call to an API of the first portion of the distributed application or to an operating system of the first computing resource. In some examples the first portion of the distributed application may run concurrently with the second portion of the distributed application.

At the first computing resource may receive a request from the remote computing resource or another remote computing resource to execute the first portion of the distributed application to perform a third part of the operation. The request may call an API of the first portion of the distributed application or an API of an operating system of the first computing resource. In one example the third operation may comprise querying a memory or register of the first computing resource e.g. smart sensor for one or more sensor readings stored in a memory or register of the first computing resource. In the case where the first computing resource comprises a utility meter the sensor readings stored in memory of the first computing resource may comprise for example resource consumption readings from a metrology module of the first computing resource. Responsive to receiving the request the first computing resource may at execute the first portion of the distributed application to perform the third part of the operation. At the first computing resource may communicate a result of execution of the first application to the second portion of the distributed application installed at the remote computing resource. In examples in which the first computing resource comprises a utility meter the result may include resource consumption data associated with a site of the utility meter.

While illustrates implementation of a distributed application across only two computing devices the techniques described with reference to can readily be extended to distributed applications running across three four or even more computing devices.

The flows of operations illustrated in are illustrated as collections of blocks and or arrows representing sequences of operations that can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. The order in which the blocks are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described operations can be combined in any order to implement one or more methods or alternate methods. Additionally individual operations may be omitted from the flow of operations without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. In the context of software the blocks represent computer readable instructions that when executed by one or more processors perform the recited operations. In the context of hardware the blocks may represent one or more circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs configured to execute the recited operations.

Although the application describes embodiments having specific structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are merely illustrative some embodiments that fall within the scope of the claims of the application.

