---

title: System and method for printing relevant content via a cloud print service
abstract: A system and method for printing relevant content via a cloud print service upon completion of an entertainment event in media from an associated one of one or more entertainment devices are disclosed. In one example, the relevant content is obtained from an associated one of one or more entertainment device cloud services by the cloud print service upon completion of the entertainment event in the media. Further, the obtained relevant content is printed on a web connected printer by the cloud print service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09069509&OS=09069509&RS=09069509
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09069509
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130320
---
Generally a cloud print service enables users to print a wide range of digital content available in the web directly from a web connected printer. A large amount of printable digital content is available through a media industry which the cloud print service can leverage. However existing cloud print service techniques in the media industry do not enable the users to print relevant content. Also in the existing techniques the web connected printer being the only device capable of printing such content is not providing a direct solution to enable the users in the media industry to print the relevant content. Therefore the users playing a favorite media for a first time in a certain level often end up searching for entertainment device control instructions tips on how to improve media playing skills coloring pages associated with the media and a certificate for completing a level.

The drawings described herein are for illustration purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure in any way.

A system and method for printing relevant content via a cloud print service are disclosed. In the following detailed description of the examples of the present subject matter references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific examples in which the present subject matter may be practiced. These examples are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present subject matter and it is to be understood that other examples may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present subject matter. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

At block the relevant content is obtained from the associated one of the one or more entertainment device cloud services by the cloud print service upon the completion of an entertainment event in media from an associated one of the one or more entertainment devices. For example the media includes a game an interactive online media and any other media. In one example the entertainment device includes a gaming console and the like. For example each entertainment device cloud service includes live content associated with the user of the entertainment device and media. Each entertainment device cloud service also includes user specific documents such as photos and the like. Exemplary entertainment event includes a level a stage a goal and the like in the media. For example the relevant content includes a certificate for the completion of the entertainment event entertainment device control instructions tips to improve media playing skills coloring pages associated with the entertainment event and the like.

In one exemplary implementation the completion of the entertainment event is identified by the cloud print service by checking the status of the media with the associated one of the one or more entertainment device could services. Further the relevant content is obtained from the associated one of the one or more entertainment device cloud services by the cloud print service upon identifying the completion of the entertainment event. In some embodiments the associated one of the one or more entertainment device cloud services sends the relevant content to the cloud print service. This is explained in more detailed with reference to . In an exemplary embodiment the user can access the relevant content through a print application on a web connected device which lists the printable content available based on the current media being played by the user. At block the obtained relevant content is printed on the web connected printer by the cloud print service. In some embodiments the user specific documents stored in the associated one of the one or more entertainment device cloud services are printed on the web connected printer via the cloud print service.

Referring now to which illustrates a system for printing the relevant content using the process described in according to an embodiment. As shown in the system includes a cloud print service one or more of entertainment devices A N a web connected printer one or more entertainment device cloud services A N a web connected device and a cloud service . For example the entertainment devices A N are entertainment devices of various types. Further the entertainment device cloud services A N include entertainment device databases A N respectively. Furthermore the cloud print service includes a processor . In addition the cloud print service includes a memory . In addition the cloud service includes a web portal . Moreover the memory includes a cloud print service module CPSM .

Also as shown in the cloud print service is communicatively coupled to the one or more entertainment device cloud services A N. Further the web connected printer and the one or more entertainment devices A N are configured using a SDK. Furthermore the web connected printer is registered with the cloud print service . Further the CPSM provides options to the user to define a number of pages to print a level of content to print filters for prints and the like in the web portal . In addition the one or more entertainment devices A N are registered with an associated one of the entertainment device cloud services A N. Also the memory is coupled to the processor .

In operation the CPSM obtains relevant content from the associated one of the entertainment device cloud services A N upon completion of an entertainment event in media the user is playing using the associated one of the entertainment devices A N. For example the media includes a game an interactive online media and any other media. In this context the CPSM identifies the completion of the entertainment event by periodically checking a status of the media with the associated one of the entertainment device cloud services A N. For example the entertainment device databases A N include live content associated with the user of each of the entertainment devices A N and the media the user is playing. The entertainment device databases A N also include user specific documents such as photos and the like. For example the entertainment event includes a level a stage a goal and the like in the media. Exemplary relevant content include a certificate for the completion of the entertainment event entertainment device control instructions tips to improve media playing skills coloring pages associated with the entertainment event and the like.

Further in this context the CPSM obtains the relevant content from the associated one of the entertainment device databases A N in the entertainment device cloud services A N upon identifying the completion of the entertainment event. In one exemplary implementation the entertainment device cloud services A N sends a uniform resource locator URL associated with the relevant content to the CPSM upon identifying the completion of the entertainment event and then the CPSM obtains the relevant content using the URL. In some embodiments the user also can access the content through a print application on the web connected device which lists the printable content available based on the current media being played by the user.

Further in operation the CPSM prints the obtained relevant content on the web connected printer . In some embodiments the entertainment device cloud services A N prints the user specific documents stored in the associated one of the entertainment device databases A N on the web connected printer via the cloud print service . This is explained in more detail with reference to .

Referring now to which illustrates a block diagram including major components of the CPSM shown in according to an embodiment. As shown in the block diagram includes the cloud print service the entertainment devices A N the entertainment device cloud services A N and the web connected printer . Further the entertainment device cloud services A N include the entertainment device databases A N respectively. Furthermore the cloud print service includes the processor and the memory including the CPSM . In addition the CPSM includes a cloud print service platform and a rendering and printing module . Moreover the cloud print service platform includes a network directory a relevant print service one or more adapters A N and other services .

Also as shown in the cloud print service is communicatively coupled to the entertainment device cloud services A N. Particularly each of the adapters A N is communicatively coupled to the associated one of the entertainment device cloud services A N. Further the web connected printer and the one or more entertainment devices A N are configured using the SDK. Furthermore the web connected printer is registered with the cloud print service . In addition the CPSM provides the options to the user to define the number of pages to print the level of content to print the filters for prints and the like in the web portal . In addition the one or more entertainment devices A N are registered with the associated one of the entertainment device cloud services A N. Also the memory is coupled to the processor . Further the relevant print service is communicatively coupled to the rendering and printing module network directory and adapters A N.

For example the network directory is a directory of credential and permission for all networks for a particular user. The network directory is maintained in the cloud print service platform in a secure way whenever the user registers the web connected printer and opt for relevant printing through the networks. Further the network directory stores identities IDs of the entertainment devices A N.

In operation the relevant print service obtains the relevant content from the associated one of the one or more entertainment device cloud services A N upon completion of the entertainment event in the media the user is playing using the associated one of the entertainment devices A N. In this context the relevant print service identifies the completion of the entertainment event by periodically checking the status of the media with the associated one of the entertainment device cloud services A N via the associated one of the adapters A N. For example the entertainment device databases A N include live content associated with the users of the entertainment devices A N and the media the users are playing. The entertainment device databases A N also include user specific documents such as photos and the like. Further in this context the relevant print service receives a notification indicating completion of the entertainment event via the associated one of the adapters A N. In one exemplary implementation the associated one of the entertainment device cloud services A N sends a notification indicating completion of the entertainment event to the relevant print service via the associated one of the adapters A N.

Furthermore the relevant print service parse the notification for information associated with the media and network ID and obtains associated entertainment device ID from the network directory . Using this information the relevant print service then obtains the relevant content from the associated one of the entertainment device databases A N in the entertainment device cloud services A N via the associated one of the adapters A N. For example the adapters A N connects the relevant print service to the associated one of the entertainment device cloud services A N via application programming interfaces APIs . For example the APIs verifies a tag of the logged in user and gets their friend list as well as their status and card. After getting the details it fetches the relevant content and pushes to the web connected printer . In some embodiments the entertainment device cloud services A N sends the relevant content to the relevant print service upon completion of the entertainment event. In addition the relevant print service prints the relevant content on the web connected printer via the rendering and printing module . In some embodiments the entertainment device cloud services A N prints the user specific documents stored in the associated entertainment device databases A N on the web connected printer via the cloud print service .

In one embodiment an article comprising a non transitory computer readable storage medium having instructions thereon which when executed by a computing platform result in execution of the above mentioned method. The method described in the foregoing may be in a form of a machine readable medium embodying a set of instructions that when executed by a machine causes the machine to perform any method disclosed herein. It will be appreciated that the various embodiments discussed herein may not be the same embodiment and may be grouped into various other embodiments not explicitly disclosed herein.

In addition it will be appreciated that the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein may be embodied in a machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a computer system and may be performed in any order e.g. including using means for achieving the various operations . Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

In various examples system and method described in propose a technique to print relevant content via the cloud print service. The proposed technique enables the cloud print service to print relevant and live content from the entertainment device cloud service which has a huge user base. The proposed technique also enables users to print the relevant content with minimal intervention. Further mobile devices with a print application can display content available so that the user can choose the relevant content to print. Also the above technique enables the users to configure print settings through the web portal.

Although certain methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. To the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

