---

title: Class I and II lantibiotics from geobacillus thermodenitrificans
abstract: The disclosure provides lantibiotics geobacillin I and geobacillin II from , compositions comprising the lantibiotics, and methods of use of the lantibiotics. Further disclosed are the sequences of lantibiotics geobacillin I and geobacillin I, and alternative structures of geobacillin I and geobacillin II comprising amino acid substitutions. Antimicrobial compositions comprising one or more isolated geobacillins and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, and methods of reducing reproduction of bacteria comprising administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of the antimicrobial composition are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09326523&OS=09326523&RS=09326523
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 09326523
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130207
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 595 790 filed on Feb. 7 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with United States government support under contract number RO1 58822 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The United States government has certain rights in the invention.

Lantibiotics are ribosomally synthesized and posttranslationally modified polycyclic peptides containing thioether bridges 1 . The crosslinks are made in a two step process of first dehydration of Ser and Thr residues to the corresponding dehydro amino acids dehydroalanine Dha and dehydrobutyrine Dhb and subsequent conjugate addition of the thiol of Cys to the dehydro amino acids. The N terminus of the precursor peptide is termed the leader peptide and is removed in the final step of maturation whereas the C terminus is designated the core peptide and is converted into the lantibiotic 2 . For class I lantibiotics dehydration and cyclization are carried out by two different enzymes generically called LanB and LanC whereas for class II lantibiotics both reactions are performed by a bifunctional enzyme LanM . The class I lantibiotic nisin the most extensively studied member of the lantibiotic family was first approved for use as a food preservative to combat food borne pathogens in 1969 and is currently used in over 50 countries 3 . Despite this widespread use very little resistance against nisin has been reported possible owing to its mode of action. Nisin binds to the pyrophosphate group of lipid II thereby preventing its use as an essential intermediate in bacterial cell wall biosynthesis 4 6 . In addition the lipid II nisin complex forms long lived pores resulting in depolarization of the membrane 7 8 . In comparison to other modes of action it may be more challenging for a target organism to change the structure of an advanced intermediate such as lipid II that is biosynthesized in 10 steps 9 10 than to acquire other resistance mechanisms such as efflux pumps and enzyme mutations. These latter mechanisms will not affect nisin as it acts on the outside of the bacterial cell and has a small molecule as target.

In addition to its use as a food preservative the Center for Veterinary Medicine of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration recently ruled positively on application of nisin for intramammary treatment of subclinical mastitis in dairy cattle. After approval of the pending New Animal Drug Application a nisin containing product would allow treatment of bovine mastitis with a zero milk discard time and zero meat withdrawal period i.e. milk and or meat from treated cattle would not have to be discarded . One drawback that has been noted for nisin is its limited stability at pH 7 11 15 . Hence more stable analogs may prove more effective.

In one embodiment of the invention an isolated geobacillin is provided. The geobacillin can comprise the structure of 

Another embodiment of the invention provides an antimicrobial composition comprising one or more isolated geobacillins of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier MOPS buffer phosphate buffer pharmaceutically acceptable diluent other diluent or excipient. The a structure above can have the following amino acid substitutions Dha5Phe or Leu6Ile or both Dha5Phe and Leu6Ile. The b structure can have one or more of the following amino acid substitutions Ala1Abu Dhb2Ala Ile3Arg. The composition can retain about 80 or more biological activity at temperatures between about 55 C. to about 80 C. The A ring of the a and b structures above can have LL 2R 6R stereochemistry or can have a mixture of LL stereochemistry and DL stereochemistry 2R 6R and 2S 6R .

The composition can further comprise at least one antifungal agent one additional antimicrobial agent or a membrane disrupting agent. The one additional antimicrobial agent can have Gram negative bacteriostatic or bacteriocidal activity and the membrane disrupting agent can render Gram negative bacteria susceptible to the one or more geobacillins. The one or more isolated geobacillins can be present in the composition at about 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 5 10 20 30 40 50 75 100 or 150 mg kg.

Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a method of reducing reproduction of bacteria or reducing numbers of bacteria present in or on in a subject comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the antimicrobial composition. The subject can be a human. The isolated lantibiotic can be administered orally or topically nasally buccally sublingually transmucosally rectally transdermally by inhalation by injection or intrathecally. The injection can be intramuscular intravenous intrapulmonary intramuscular intradermal intraperitoneal intrathecal or subcutaneous injection.

Still another embodiment of the invention provides a preservative comprising an effective amount of one or more geobacillins of the invention in a physiological solution at a pH of between 3 and 8.

Even another embodiment of the invention provides a food or beverage composition comprising an amount of one or more geobacillins of the invention sufficient to reduce the reproduction of bacteria or numbers of bacteria in the composition.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a method of reducing reproduction of bacteria or reducing numbers of bacteria present in or on a composition or object comprising contacting the antimicrobial composition of the invention with the composition or object for a period effective to reduce reproduction of bacteria or reduce numbers of bacteria in or on the composition or object. The composition can be a food or beverage.

Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a method of reducing a biofilm or biofouling condition comprising contacting the antimicrobial composition of the invention with the biofilm or biofouling condition for a period effective to reduce reproduction of bacteria or reduce numbers of bacteria in or on the biofilm or biofouling condition.

Still another embodiment of the invention provides a kit comprising one or more geobacillins of the invention and one or more applicators.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a method for producing an isolated geobacillin. The method comprises inserting an enzyme cleavage site within about 10 nucleotides of the 1 position of a nucleic acid molecule encoding GeoA1 to make a mutated GeoA1 nucleic acid molecule. The mutated GeoA1 nucleic acid molecule and nucleic acid molecules that encode GeoB GeoC GeoAII and GeoM are inserted into one or more cloning vectors. Bacterial cells are then transformed with the one or more cloning vectors. The bacterial cells lysed and the cell lysate is collected. The cell lysate is treated with an enzyme that will cause cleavage at the enzyme cleavage site. The geobacillin is isolated from the cell lysate to produce an isolated geobacillin. The nucleic acid molecules encoding GeoA1 GeoB GeoC GeoAII and GeoM can be codon optimized for expression in the bacterial cells. The bacterial cells can be for example 

Even another embodiment of the invention provides a geobacillin pre peptide comprising SEQ ID NO 62 or SEQ ID NO 65 or a geobacillin comprising SEQ ID NO 44 52 54 60.

Therefore the invention provides an isolated lantibiotic from NG80 2 termed geobacillin I that is an analog of nisin with two additional crosslinks. The compound was produced heterologously in its ring topology was determined by NMR spectroscopy and its activity against various bacteria was assessed. The compound was three fold more active than nisin against one of the main contagious causative agents of clinical bovine mastitis 16 . Geobacillin I also demonstrates increased stability compared to nisin A.

In addition to geobacillin I of the invention also provides a second lantibiotic geobacillin II encoded on the genome of NG80 2. It was heterologously produced in its ring topology was determined by tandem mass spectrometry and its spectrum of activity was evaluated. Interestingly geobacillin II which has no obvious structural homologs among lantibiotics of known structure was only active against bacilli.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The final structure of lantibiotics cannot be determined given the nucleic acid sequences of the gene clusters encoding the components necessary for a bacterium to produce lantibiotics. Even given substantially purified lantibiotics which are difficult to obtain it is arduous to determine the exact final structure of a lantibiotic. The literature is replete with examples of initially reported incorrect final structures of lantibiotics. See e.g. Caetano et al. Chemistry Biology 18 90 2011 reporting the corrected structures for Bli and Bli of the lantibiotic lichenicidin Maffioli et al. J. Natural Prod. 72 605 2009 reporting the corrected structure for lantibiotic 97518 .

Herein we describe a nisin analog encoded on the genome of the thermophilic bacterium NG80 2. This analog termed geobacillin I was obtained by heterologous expression in and subsequent purification. Extensive NMR characterization demonstrated that geobacillin I contains seven thioether crosslinks two more than the five crosslinks found in nisin and the most crosslinks found in any lantibiotic to date. The antimicrobial spectrum of geobacillin I was generally similar to that of nisin with increased activity against one of the causative agents of bovine mastitis. In addition to geobacillin I the genome of also contains a class II lantibiotic biosynthetic gene cluster. The corresponding compound was produced in and has a ring topology different than that of any known lantibiotic as determined by tandem mass spectrometry. Interestingly geobacillin II only demonstrated antimicrobial activity against strains. Seven strains were screened for production of the geobacillins using whole cell MALDI MS and five were shown to produce geobacillin I but none produced geobacillin II.

The geobacillins of the invention are polypeptides comprising post translational modifications. Post translational modifications are chemical modifications of a polypeptide after it has been translated. A polypeptide is a polymer of two or more amino acids covalently linked by amide bonds. A purified polypeptide is a polypeptide preparation that is substantially free of cellular material other types of polypeptides chemical precursors chemicals used in synthesis of the polypeptide or combinations thereof. A polypeptide preparation that is substantially free of cellular material culture medium chemical precursors chemicals used in synthesis of the polypeptide etc. has less than about 30 20 10 5 1 or more of other polypeptides culture medium chemical precursors and or other chemicals used in synthesis. Therefore a purified polypeptide is about 70 80 90 95 99 or more pure. A purified polypeptide does not include unpurified or semi purified cell extracts or mixtures of polypeptides that are less than 70 pure.

The term geobacillin or geobacillin polypeptide can refer to one or more of one type of geobacillins a set of geobacillins . Geobacillins can also refer to mixtures of two or more different types of geobacillins a mixture of geobacillins . The terms geobacillin or geobacillins can each also mean one or more geobacillins. 

Geobacillin I is shown in . Geobacillin I has 7 rings labeled A G. Four of these rings are formed by lanthionine residues Ala S Ala including one in ring A Ala S Ala one in ring E Ala2 S Ala2 one in ring F Ala S Ala and one in ring G Ala S Ala . Three of the rings are formed by methyl lanthionine residues Abu S Ala including one in ring B Abu S Ala one in ring C Abu S Ala and one in ring D Abu S Ala . In one embodiment of the invention the Val at position 15 can be substituted with an Ile. The molecule is amenable to amino acid substitutions and variants with other amino acid substitutions are expected to result in biologically active molecules.

In one embodiment of the invention geobacillin I has the following mutations Dha5Phe or Leu6Ile or both Dha5Phe and Leu6Ile. Geobacillin I having mutations Dha5Phe and Leu6Ile is geobacillin I KFI which has greater solubility and improved stability over wild type geobacillin I.

The amino acid sequence of wild type geobacillin I prior to post translational modification is MAKFDDFDLDIWKKQDDVVQPKVTSKSLCTPGCITGVLMCLTQNSCV SCNSCIRC SEQ ID NO 3 optionally an L is at position 4 or an I is at position 19 or an L is at position 4 and an I is at position 19 optionally an N is present at position 23 . About 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 20 25 30 or more or any range of amino acids between about 1 and 30 amino acids can be added to the wild type or mutant geobacillin. Additionally about 30 25 20 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 or less or any range of between about 30 and 1 amino acids amino acids can be added to the wild type or mutant geobacillin. For example in one embodiment of the invention a geobacillin has the following amino acid sequence GSSHHHHHHSQDPMAKFDDFDLDIVVKKQDDWQPKVTSKSLCTPGCITGVLMCLTQNSCVSCNSCIRC SEQ ID NO 4 which is the same as SEQ ID NO 3 but has additional amino acids from the use of a vector to produce the geobacillin. The sequence of geobacillin I after the leader is cleaved and prior to other post translational modification is VTSKSLCTPGCITGVLMCLTQNSCVSCNSCIRC SEQ ID NO 62 . The leader sequence of geobacillin I is MAKFDDFDLDIWKKQDDWQPK SEQ ID NO 63 optionally an L is at position 4 or an I is at position 19 or an L is at position 4 and an I is at position 19 optionally an N is present at position 23 .

Geobacillin II is shown in SEQ ID NO 53 . Geobacillin II has 4 rings labeled A D. All of these rings are formed by lanthionine residues Ala S Ala including one in ring A Ala S Ala ring B Ala S Ala one in ring C Ala S Ala and one in ring D Ala S Ala . The molecule is amenable to amino acid substitutions and variants with amino acid substitutions are expected to result in biologically active molecules.

In one embodiment of the invention geobacillin II has one two or all three of the following mutations Ala1Abu Dhb2Ala Ile3Arg. Geobacillin II having mutations is Ala1Abu Dhb2Ala and Ile3Arg is geobacillin II S1T which potentially has greater solubility and improved stability over wild type geobacillin II.

The amino acid sequence of wild type geobacillin II prior to post translational modification is MKGGIQMEKQEQTFVSKISEEELKKLAGGYTEVSPQSTIVCVSLRICNWSLRFCPSFKVRCPM SEQ ID NO 5 . Optionally the Q at position 36 is a K. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 20 25 30 or more or any range of amino acids between about 1 and 30 amino acids can be added to the wild type or mutant geobacillin. Additionally about 30 25 20 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 or less or any range of between about 30 and 1 amino acids amino acids can be added to the wild type or mutant geobacillin. For example in one embodiment of the invention a geobacillin has the following amino acid sequence GSSHHHHHHSQDPMKGGIQMEKQEQTFVSKISEEELKKLAGGYTEVSPQSTIVCVSLRICNWSLRFCPSFKVRCPM SEQ ID NO 64 which is the same as SEQ ID NO 5 but has additional amino acids from the use of a vector to produce the geobacillin. Optionally the Q at position 49 is a K. The sequence of geobacillin II after the leader is cleaved and prior to other post translational modification is STIVCVSLRICNWSLRFCPSFKVRCPM SEQ ID NO 65 . The leader sequence of geobacillin II is MKGGIQMEKQEQTFVSKISEEELKKLAGGYTEVSPQ SEQ ID NO 6 . Optionally the Q at position 36 is a K.

Variant geobacillin polypeptides have one or more conservative amino acid variations or other minor modifications and retain biological activity i.e. are biologically functional equivalents. A biologically active equivalent has substantially equivalent function when compared to the corresponding wild type geobacillin at 37 C. In one embodiment of the invention a geobacillin has about 1 2 3 4 or 5 or less conservative amino acid substitutions. A variant geobacillin or geobacillin exposed to varying conditions e.g. different buffers temperature different additives etc. can have 80 85 90 95 or more biological activity of a wild type geobacillin at 37 C. in phosphate buffer.

Variant geobacillins are part or the invention and are at least about 80 or about 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 identical to any of the geobacillin sequences disclosed herein. For example a variant geobacillin can have about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more amino acid changes. In one embodiment of the invention a polypeptide has about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or less conservative amino acid substitutions.

Percent sequence identity has an art recognized meaning and there are a number of methods to measure identity between two polypeptide or polynucleotide sequences. See e.g. Lesk Ed. Oxford University Press New York 1988 Smith Ed. Academic Press New York 1993 Griffin Griffin Eds. Humana Press New Jersey 1994 von Heinje Academic Press 1987 and Gribskov Devereux Eds. M Stockton Press New York 1991 . Methods for aligning polynucleotides or polypeptides are codified in computer programs including the GCG program package Devereux et al. 12 387 1984 BLASTP BLASTN FASTA Atschul et al. 215 403 1990 and Bestfit program Wisconsin Sequence Analysis Package Version 8 for Unix Genetics Computer Group University Research Park 575 Science Drive Madison Wis. 53711 which uses the local homology algorithm of Smith and Waterman 2 482 489 1981 . For example the computer program ALIGN which employs the FASTA algorithm can be used with an affine gap search with a gap open penalty of 12 and a gap extension penalty of 2.

When using any of the sequence alignment programs to determine whether a particular sequence is for instance about 95 identical to a reference sequence the parameters are set such that the percentage of identity is calculated over the full length of the reference polynucleotide and that gaps in identity of up to 5 of the total number of nucleotides in the reference polynucleotide are allowed.

Variant geobacillins can generally be identified by modifying one of the geobacillin sequences of the invention and evaluating the properties of the modified geobacillin to determine if it is a biological equivalent. A variant is a biological equivalent if it reacts substantially the same as a geobacillin of the invention in an assay such as a zone of inhibition assay or a minimum inhibitory concentration assay e.g. has 1 to 10 or more fold more activity than the original geobacillin.

A conservative substitution is one in which an amino acid is substituted for another amino acid that has similar properties such that one skilled in the art of peptide chemistry would expect the secondary structure and general nature of the polypeptide to be substantially unchanged. In general the following groups of amino acids represent conservative changes 1 ala pro gly glu asp gln asn ser thr dha abu dhb 2 cys ser tyr thr 3 val ile leu met ala phe dha abu dhb gly 4 lys arg his and 5 phe tyr trp his.

A geobacillin polypeptide can be covalently or non covalently linked to an amino acid sequence to which the geobacillin is not normally associated with in nature i.e. a heterologous amino acid sequence. A heterologous amino acid sequence can be from a non organism a synthetic sequence or a sequence not usually located at the carboxy or amino terminus of a geobacillin of the invention. Additionally a geobacillin can be covalently or non covalently linked to compounds or molecules other than amino acids such as indicator reagents. A geobacillin can be covalently or non covalently linked to an amino acid spacer an amino acid linker a signal sequence a stop transfer sequence TMR stop transfer sequence a transmembrane domain a protein purification ligand or a combination thereof. A polypeptide can also be linked to a moiety that facilitates purification e.g. affinity tags such as a six histidine tag trpE glutathione S transferase maltose binding protein staphylococcal Protein A or com or a moiety that facilitates polypeptide stability e.g. polyethylene glycol amino terminus protecting groups such as acetyl propyl succinyl benzyl benzyloxycarbonyl or t butyloxycarbonyl carboxyl terminus protecting groups such as amide methylamide and ethylamide . In one embodiment of the invention a protein purification ligand can be one or more amino acid residues at for example the amino terminus or carboxy terminus of a polypeptide of the invention. An amino acid spacer is a sequence of amino acids that are not associated with a polypeptide of the invention in nature. An amino acid spacer can comprise about 1 5 10 20 100 or 1 000 amino acids.

If desired a geobacillin of the invention can be part of a fusion protein which can contain heterologous amino acid sequences. Heterologous amino acid sequences can be present at the C or N terminus of a geobacillin of the invention to form a fusion protein. More than one geobacillin of the invention can be present in a fusion protein. Fragments of geobacillins of the invention can be present in a fusion protein of the invention. A fusion protein of the invention can comprise one or more geobacillins of the invention fragments thereof or combinations thereof.

Geobacillin polypeptides of the invention can be in a multimeric form. That is a geobacillin polypeptide can comprise one or more copies of a geobacillin polypeptide of the invention or a combination thereof. A multimeric geobacillin polypeptide can be a multiple antigen peptide MAP . See e.g. Tam J. Immunol. Methods 196 17 32 1996 .

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts esters amides and prodrugs are carboxylate salts amino acid addition salts esters amides and prodrugs of the geobacillins are part of the present invention. These compounds are suitable for use with subjects and do not cause undue toxicity irritation or allergic response are commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio and are effective for their intended use. Salts are the substantially non toxic inorganic and organic acid addition salts of geobacillins of the invention. Salts include for example hydrobromide hydrochloride sulfate bisulfate nitrate acetate oxalate valerate oleate palmitate stearate laurate borate benzoate lactate phosphate tosylate citrate maleate fumarate succinate tartrate naphthylate mesylate glucoheptonate lactobionate and laurylsulphonate salts and the like. These may include cations based on the alkali and alkaline earth metals such as sodium lithium potassium calcium magnesium and the like as well as non toxic ammonium quaternary ammonium and amine cations including but not limited to ammonium tetramethylammonium tetraethylammonium methylamine dimethylamine trimethylamine triethylamine ethylamine and the like.

Pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic esters of geobacillins include for example C Calkyl esters wherein the alkyl group is a straight or branched chain. Other esters include C Ccycloalkyl esters as well as arylalkyl esters such as but not limited to benzyl C Calkyl esters.

Pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic amides of geobacillins include amides derived from ammonia primary C Calkyl amines and secondary C Cdialkyl amines wherein the alkyl groups are straight or branched chains. In the case of secondary amines the amine may be in the form of a 5 or 6 membered heterocycle containing one nitrogen atom. Also included are amides derived from ammonia C Calkyl primary amines and C Cdialkyl secondary amines.

A geobacillin of the invention can be produced recombinantly. A polynucleotide encoding a geobacillin of the invention can be introduced into a recombinant expression vector which can be expressed in a suitable expression host cell system using techniques well known in the art. A variety of bacterial yeast plant mammalian and insect expression systems are available in the art and any such expression system can be used. A geobacillin can also be chemically synthesized or purified from cell culture. See e.g. U.S. 61 406 194 filed Oct. 25 2010 Shi et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 133 2338 2011 .

In one embodiment of the invention a geobacillin is produced by inserting a trypsin or other enzyme cleavage site within 10 nucleotides upstream or downstream of the 1 position of a nucleic acid molecule encoding GeoA1 to make a mutated GeoA1 nucleic acid molecule. The mutated GeoA1 nucleic acid molecule and nucleic acid molecules that encode GeoB GeoC GeoAII and GeoM placed into one or more cloning vectors. A culture of bacterial cells are transformed with the one or more cloning vectors. Once the transformed cells are expressing proteins from the cloning vectors the transformed bacterial cells are lysed and the cell lysate is collected. The cell lysate is treated with trypsin or another enzyme that act on the cleavage site of GeoA1. The geobacillin is isolated from the cell lysate to produce an isolated geobacillin. The nucleic acid molecules encoding GeoA1 GeoB GeoC GeoAII and GeoM can be codon optimized for expression in the bacterial cells. The bacterial cells can be for example

In one embodiment of the invention the A ring of a geobacillin the first ring from the amino terminus has LL 2R 6R stereochemistry or has a mixture of LL stereochemistry and DL stereochemistry 2R 6R and 2S 6R .

The geobacillins of the invention can act as antimicrobials disinfectants antibiotics antiseptics preservatives or decontaminating agents. An antimicrobial composition kills microbes or slows the reproduction of microbes such as bacteria. A disinfectant composition is applied to a non living object to kill microbes or to slow the reproduction of microbes such as bacteria. An antibiotic kills microbes or slows the reproduction of microbes such as bacteria in the body of a subject or in cells or tissues. An antiseptic kills microbes or slows the reproduction of microbes such as bacteria on skin tissue or organs. A preservative composition kills microbes or slows the reproduction of microbes in products such as paints wood foods beverages biological samples cell or tissue cultures or pharmaceutical compositions to prevent decomposition by microbes such as bacteria. A decontaminating agent is a cleaning agent that can be used to kill microbes or to reduce the reproduction of microbes such as bacteria in or on a living organism cells tissues or objects.

The geobacillins of the invention can be bacteriostatic meaning that the geobacillins reduce or prevent the reproduction of bacteria. In one embodiment of the invention the bacteriostatic action of a geobacillin reduces reproduction of the bacteria by about 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 or any range between about 5 and 100 . The geobacillins of the invention can be bacteriocidal meaning that the geobacillins kill bacteria. In one embodiment of the invention the geobacillins kill about 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 or any range between about 5 and 100 of the bacteria they come in contact with. The difference between whether a geobacillin acts as bacteriostatic agent or a bacteriocidal agent can be the amount or concentration of geobacillin delivered to the subject composition or object. Geobacillins can reduce the numbers of bacteria present in a composition subject cells or tissues. In one embodiment of the invention geobacillins reduce the number of bacteria by about 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 or any range between about 5 and 100 .

The isolated geobacillins of the invention can be present in antimicrobial compositions comprising one or more isolated geobacillins of the invention and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents or excipients solids or liquids . In one embodiment of the invention the geobacillin is present in an amount effective to substantially reduce bacterial reproduction of at least one type of Gram positive bacteria by about 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 or any range between about 5 and 100 . In one embodiment of the invention the geobacillin is present in an amount effective to substantially reduce the numbers of at least one type of Gram positive bacteria by about 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 or any range between about 5 and 100 . Gram positive bacteria can be for example such as subsp such as and vancomycin resistant such as 15X and methicillin resistant such as Sterne 7702 and Z4222 such as and such as

Furthermore Gram negative bacteria can be susceptible to geobacillins of the invention where the outer membrane is disrupted with for example a chelating agent such as EDTA. The combination of geobacillins of the invention with a membrane disruption agent and or other antibiotics or drugs that target Gram negative species can provide a composition effective against both Gram positive and Gram negative species. Therefore the invention includes compositions comprising one or more geobacillins of the invention and at least one additional antimicrobial agent or membrane disrupting agent. The one additional antimicrobial agent can have Gram negative bacteriostatic or bacteriocidal activity. The membrane disrupting agent can render Gram negative bacteria susceptible to a geobacillin i.e. the membrane disrupting agent in combination with one or more geobacillins of the invention are bacteriostatic or bacteriocidal to Gram negative bacteria . Gram negative bacteria include for example and

Gram variable and Gram indeterminate bacteria can also be susceptible to geobacillins of the invention. Chelating agents such as EDTA can be added to compositions of the invention to disrupt the outer membrane of these organisms. Gram variable and Gram indeterminate bacteria include for example and

In one embodiment of the invention geobacillin II is present in the amount effective to substantially reduce the numbers of at least one type of sp. By about 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 or any range between about 5 and 100 . At least one type of sp. can be for example and 

A geobacillin of the invention is retains 80 90 95 or more biological activity at for example about 37 C. 45 C. 55 C. 65 C. 75 C. 80 C. 90 C. 100 C. or greater than 100. A geobacillin of the invention retains 80 90 95 or more biological activity at for example 37 C. to 100 C. or and any range between about 37 C. to 100 C. for example 37 C. to 80 C. 55 C. to 80 C. or 65 C. to 80 C. A geobacillin of the invention is stable and retains stability in phosphate buffer. Geobacillins retains even more stability in MOPS buffer that is a buffer comprising about 0.01 0.5 0.75 0.1 0.25 M 3 N morpholino propanesulfonic acid at a pH of about 6.5 to 7.9. In one embodiment of the invention a geobacillin is in a MOPS buffer comprising about 0.01 0.5 0.75 0.1 or 0.25 M 3 N morpholino propanesulfonic acid at a pH of about 6.5 to 7.9

A geobacillin of the invention can be combined with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers other carriers diluents adjuvants excipients or encapsulating substances which are suitable for administration to an animal composition or object. Exemplary pharmaceutically acceptable carriers other carriers diluents adjuvants excipients or encapsulating substances thereof include sugars such as lactose glucose dextrose and sucrose starches such as corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose hydropropylmethylcellulose and methyl cellulose polysaccharides such as latex functionalized SEPHAROSE crosslinked beaded form of agarose and agarose powdered tragacanth glycerol malt gelatin talc solid lubricants such as stearic acid and magnesium stearate calcium sulfate vegetable oils such as peanut oil cottonseed oil sesame oil olive oil and corn oil polyols such as propylene glycol glycerine sorbitol mannitol propylene glycol and polyethylene glycol proteins such as serum albumins keyhole limpet hemocyanin immunoglobulin molecules thyroglobulin ovalbumin tetanus toxoid alginic acid emulsifiers such as the TWEEN s polysorbate polylactic acids polyglycolic acids polymeric amino acids such as polyglutamic acid and polylysine amino acid copolymers peptoids lipitoids inactive avirulent virus particles or bacterial cells liposomes hydrogels cyclodextrins biodegradable nanocapsules bioadhesives wetting agents such sodium lauryl sulfate coloring agents flavoring agents tableting agents stabilizers antioxidants preservatives pyrogen free water isotonic saline ethanol ethyl oleate pyrrolidone Ringer s solution dextrose solution Hank s solution sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth gum acacia and sterile water and aqueous buffers and solutions such as physiological phosphate buffered saline.

Carriers such as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and diluents for therapeutic use are well known in the art and are described in for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. A. R. Gennaro ed. 1985 .

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can also be used in compositions of the invention for example mineral salts such as hydrochlorides hydrobromides phosphates or sulfates as well as salts of organic acids such as acetates proprionates malonates or benzoates.

The geobacillin compositions can be in a form suitable for oral use for example as tablets troches lozenges mouthwashes dentifrices buccal tablets solutions aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules or syrups or elixirs. Such compositions can contain one or more agents such as emulsifying agents wetting agents pH buffering agents sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents. The geobacillin compositions can be a dry product for reconstitution with water or other suitable liquid before use.

Geobacillins of the invention can also be administered in the form of suppositories for rectal vaginal or urethral administration of the drug. These compositions can be prepared by mixing the geobacillin with a suitable non irritating carrier that is solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the body temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the drug. Such materials are cocoa butter and polyethylene glycols.

Geobacillins can also be topically administered in the form of e.g. lotions gels or liposome delivery systems such as small unilamellar vesicles large unilamellar vesicles and multilamellar vesicles. Liposomes can be formed from a variety of phospholipids such as cholesterol stearylamine or phosphatidylcholines.

Other dosage forms include for example injectable sublingual and nasal dosage forms. Compositions for inhalation typically can be provided in the form of a solution suspension or emulsion that can be administered as a dry powder or in the form of an aerosol using a conventional propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane or trichlorofluoromethane .

Formulations can contain between about 0.0001 and about 99.9999 by weight of one or more geobacillins of the invention and usually at least about 5 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 weight of one or more geobacillins of the present invention. Some embodiments contain from about 25 to about 50 or from 5 to 75 of a geobacillin of invention.

One or more geobacillins of the invention can be combined with one or more antimicrobials antibiotics bacteriocins anti viral virucidal or anti fungal compounds or molecules to form a composition useful in the methods of the invention. Antibiotics include for example penicillins cephalosporins polymyxins quinolones sulfonamides aminoglycosides macrolides tetracyclines cyclic lipopeptides e.g. daptomycin glycylcyclines e.g. tigecycline and oxazolidinones e.g. linezoid .

Bacteriocins include for example acidocin actagardine agrocin alveicin aureocin carnocin carnocyclin colicin curvaticin divercin duramycin enterocin enterolysin epidermin erwiniocin gallidermin glycinecin halocin haloduracin lactococin lacticin leucoccin macedocin mersacidin mesentericin microbisporicin mutacin nisin paenibacillin planosporicin pediocin pentocin plantaricin reutericin sakacin salivaricin subtilin sulfolobicin thuricin 17 trifolitoxin variacin vibriocin warnericin and warnerin. Antifungals include for example polyene antifungals e.g. amphotericin B natamycin rimocidin filipin nystatin candicin hamycin azole antifungals e.g. imidazole triazole thiazole imidazoles e.g. miconazole ketoconazole clotrimazole econazole omoconazole bifonazole butoconazole fenticonazole isoconazole oxiconazole sertaconazole sulconazole tioconazole triazoles e.g. fluconazole itraconazole isavuconazole ravuconazole posaconazole voriconazole terconazole albaconazole thiazoles e.g. abagungin allylamines e.g. terbinafine naftifine butenafine echinocandins e.g. anidulafungin caspofungin micafungin polygodial benzoic acid ciclopiroxolamine tolnaftate undecylenic acid flucytosine and griseofulvin.

Antivirals and virucidal agents include for example abacavir aciclovire acyclovir adefovir amantadine amprenavir ampligen arbidol atazanavir atripla boceprevir cidofovir combivir delavirdine didanosine docosanol efavirenz emtricitabine enfuvirtide entecavir entry inhibitors famciclovir fomivirsen fosamprenavir foscarnet fosfonet ganciclovir ibacitabine imunovir idoxuridine imiquimod indinavir inosine integrase inhibitor interferon types i ii iii interferon lamivudine lopinavir loviride maraviroc moroxydine methisazone nelfinavir nevirapine nexavir nucleoside analogues oseltamivir peginterferon alpha 2a penciclovir peramivir pleconaril podophyllotoxin protease inhibitor raltegravir reverse transcriptase inhibitor ribavirin rimantadine ritonavir pyramidine saquinavir stavudine tenofovir tenofovir disoproxil tipranavir trifluridine trizivir tromantadine truvada valaciclovir valganciclovir vicriviroc vidarabine viramidine zalcitabine zanamivir and zidovudine.

Geobacillin compositions of the invention can be used to reduce the growth of bacteria prevent the growth of bacteria prevent the reproduction of bacteria reduce the reproduction of bacteria or to reduce or eliminate the numbers of bacteria present in or on an object composition or subject. In one embodiment of the invention the bacteria are at least one type of Gram positive bacteria at least one type of Gram negative bacteria at least one type of Gram variable or Gram indeterminate bacteria or a combination of at least one type of Gram positive or at least one type of Gram negative bacteria or at least one type of Gram variable or Gram indeterminate bacteria. The geobacillin compositions of the invention can be administered to added to or contacted with a composition or subject.

Geobacillins of the invention can be used to treat ameliorate or prevent a disease infection or colonization. A disease is a pathological condition of a part organ or system of an organism resulting from infection and characterized by an identifiable group of signs and symptoms. An infection is invasion by and multiplication of pathogenic microorganisms such as bacteria in a bodily part or tissue which may produce a subsequent tissue injury and progress to overt disease through a variety of cellular or toxic mechanisms. Colonization is the act or process of a microorganism such as bacteria establishing itself on or within a host or object. Colonization may produce a subsequent biofilm or biofouling condition as described below. Geobacillins of the invention can be used prophylactically to prevent disease infection or colonization or to prevent the spread of a disease infection or colonization to additional bodily parts or tissues additional surfaces or to different subjects. Geobacillins of the invention can also be used to reduce the number of pathogenic microorganisms on or in a subject or on a surface.

Examples of diseases infections and colonizations that can be treated or prevented by the compositions and methods of the invention include for example septicemia bacterial meningitis cystic fibrosis bovine mastitis impetigo bacterial vaginosis bacterial pneumonia urinary tract infections bacterial gastroenteritis erysipelas cellulitis anthrax whooping cough brucellosis enteritis opportunistic infections community acquired respiratory infections upper and lower respiratory infections diphtheria nosocomial infections diarrhea ulcer bronchitis listeriosis tuberculosis gonorrhea pseudomonas infections salmonellosis shigellosis staphylococcal infections streptococcal infections and necrotizing fasciitis.

Geobacillins of the invention can be administered to a mammal such as a mouse rabbit guinea pig macaque baboon chimpanzee human cow sheep pig horse dog cat or to a non mammalian animal such as a chicken duck or fish. Geobacillins of the invention can also be administered to plants.

Administration of the geobacillins of the invention can be by any means known in the art including injection e.g. intramuscular intravenous intrapulmonary intradermal intraperitoneal intrathecal or subcutaneous injection aerosol intranasal infusion pump suppository rectal vaginal urethral mucosally topically buccally orally parenterally infusion techniques by inhalation or spray sublingually transdermally as an ophthalmic solution intraspinal application or by other means in dosage unit formulations containing conventional non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents excipients adjuvants and vehicles. A combination of administration methods can also be used.

In therapeutic applications the geobacillin compositions of the invention are administered to subjects to reduce the reproduction of bacteria or reduce the numbers of bacteria or both. The particular dosages of geobacillin in a composition will depend on many factors including but not limited to the species age gender severity of infection concurrent medication general condition of the animal to which the composition is administered and the mode of administration of the composition. An effective amount of the composition of the invention can be readily determined using only routine experimentation. A therapeutically effective amount means the administration of that amount to an individual either in a single dose or as part of a series which is effective for treatment amelioration or prevention of bacterial infection or colonization. A therapeutically effective amount is also an amount effective in alleviating or reducing the symptoms of an infection or in reducing the reproduction of bacteria in or on a subject or reducing the amount of bacteria in or on a subject.

The concentration of geobacillin in a composition can vary widely and will be selected primarily based on activity of the geobacillin body weight of the subject overall health of the subject etc. as described above in accordance with the particular mode of administration selected and the subject s needs. Concentrations however will typically be selected to provide dosages ranging from about 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 5 10 20 30 40 50 75 100 150 mg kg day or any range between about 0.001 and 150 mg kg day and sometimes higher. Typical dosages range from about 0.1 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day from about 0.1 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day from about 0.1 mg kg day to about 20 mg kg day and from about 0.1 mg kg day to about 50 mg kg day.

Geobacillins can be administered for a certain period of time e.g. 1 day 3 days 1 week 1 month 2 months 3 months 6 months 1 year or more or can be administered in maintenance doses for long periods of time to prevent or reduce disease infection colonization biofilms or biofouling conditions.

Geobacillins of the invention can be administered either to an animal that is not infected or colonized with bacteria or can be administered to bacterial infected or colonized animal.

One embodiment of the invention provides a method for decontaminating or reducing bacterial growth on or in an inanimate object comprising contacting the object with a geobacillin of the invention for a period effective to substantially inhibit bacterial growth of at least one type of bacteria. The contacting can be for 1 15 30 or 60 minutes or 2 3 10 12 24 36 or 48 hours or any range between about 1 minute and 48 hours . An object can be for example a food preparation surface food preparation equipment industrial equipment pipes or a medical device such as catheter scalpel knife scissors spatula expander clip tweezers speculum retractor suture surgical mesh chisel drill level rasp saw splint caliper clamp forceps hook lancet needle cannula curette depressor dilator elevator articulator extractor probe staple artificial joint wound dressing catheter stent tubing bowl tray sponge snare spoon syringe pacemaker screw plate pin wire guide wire pacemaker lead implant sensor glucose sensor blood bypass tubing i.v. bag ventricular assist device components and balloon.

Methods of the invention can also be used to ameliorate reduce remove or prevent biofouling or biofilms. Biofouling is the undesirable accumulation of microorganisms such as bacteria on structures exposed to solvent. Biofouling can occur for example on the hulls of ships in membrane systems such as membrane bioreactors and reverse osmosis spiral wound membranes water cooling systems of large industrial equipment and power stations and oil pipelines carrying e.g. used oils cutting oils soluble oils or hydraulic oils.

A biofilm can cause biofouling and is an aggregate of organisms wherein the organisms are adhered to each other to a surface or a combination thereof. A biofilm can comprise one or more species of bacteria fungi filamentous fungi yeasts algae cyanobacteria viruses and protozoa and combinations thereof. Microorganisms present in a biofilm can be embedded within a self produced matrix of extracellular polymeric substances. When a microorganism switches to a biofilm mode of growth it can undergo a phenotypic shift in behavior wherein large suites of genes are differentially regulated. Nearly every species of microorganism can form biofilms. Biofilms can be found on or in living organisms or in or on non living structures. Biofilms can be present on structures contained in naturally occurring bodies of water or man made bodies of water on the surface of water surfaces exposed to moisture interiors of pipes cooling water systems marine systems boat hulls on teeth on plant surfaces inside plants on human and animal body surfaces inside humans and animals on contact lenses on catheters prosthetic cardiac valves other prosthesis intrauterine devices and other structures devices.

Biofilms can cause corrosion of metal surfaces inhibit vessel speed cause plant diseases and can cause human and animal diseases. Biofilms are involved in human and animal infections including for example urinary tract infections catheter infections middle ear infections dental plaque gingivitis dental decay and gum disease endocarditis infections in cystic fibrosis chronic sinusitis and infections of permanent indwelling devices such as joint prostheses and heart valves. Biofilms can also impair cutaneous wound healing and reduce topical antibacterial efficiency in healing or treating infected skin wounds.

Some microorganisms that can form biofilms cause biofouling and or cause disease in humans and animals include for example bacteria fungi yeast algae protozoa and viruses as described above. Biofilms can be treated in living organisms as described above. Biofilms and biofouling conditions on non living surfaces can be treated by applying the geobacillins of the invention onto the non living surface or to the area surrounding the surface. Geobacillins can also be added to the water oil or other fluid surrounding and in contact with the non living surface.

The invention provides methods of ameliorating or preventing a biofouling condition or a biofilm condition caused by one or more microorganisms such as bacteria. The methods comprise administering one or more geobacillins to the biofouling condition or biofilm condition wherein the biofouling condition or biofilm condition is ameliorated.

One or more geobacillins can be administered to a surface that has a biofilm or biofouling condition or can be administered to a surface as a prophylactic measure. The geobacillins can be in a dried form e.g. lyophilized or tablet form or a liquid solution or suspension form. The dried or liquid forms can be swabbed poured sprayed flushed through the surface e.g. pipes or membranes or otherwise applied to the surface. Geobacillins can be present in a composition with a carrier or diluent in an amount from about 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 5 10 20 30 40 50 75 100 150 mg m or any range between about 0.001 and about 150 mg mand sometimes higher.

Where the biofilm is present or potentially present on an artificial surface within a human or animal e.g. a catheter or medical device the artificial surface can be contacted with the one or more geobacillins prior to insertion into the human or animal. Optionally the geobacillins can be delivered to the surface after the artificial surface is inserted into the human or animal.

In one embodiment of the invention a geobacillin can be used for decontaminating or reducing bacterial reproduction or bacterial numbers in a biological tissue or cell culture. The geobacillin can be present in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient at the dosage rates as for pharmaceutical compositions described above. The geobacillin or geobacillin composition can be contacted with the tissue or cell culture for a period effective to substantially inhibit bacterial growth of at least one type of gram positive bacteria. The geobacillin can be provided in an amount effective to maintain the physiological characteristics of the biological tissue or cells and or in an amount effective to substantially maintain the viability of the biological tissue or cells.

One embodiment of the invention provides a method for preparing isograft organs tissues or cells autograft tissues or cells allograft organs tissues or cells xenograft organs tissues or cells or other cells or tissue for transplantation. The method comprises contacting the organs cells or tissues with a geobacillin composition of the invention for a period effective to inhibit or reduce bacterial growth or bacterial numbers of at least one type of Gram positive bacteria. The cells organs or tissues can be for example a heart valve a blood vessel pericardium or musculoskeletal tissue ligaments such as anterior cruciate ligaments knee joints hip joints ankle joints meniscal tissue skin cornea heart lung small bowel intestine liver kidney bone marrow bone and tendons.

The contacting step can be performed at a temperature from about 2 C. to about 42 C. for about 0.5 1 2 3 5 10 24 36 or 48 hours. The geobacillin composition can further comprise a physiological solution further comprising one or more broad spectrum antimicrobials and or one or more antifungal agents such as for example vancomycin imipenem amikacin and amphotericin B.

Geobacillin compositions of the invention can also be used as a preservative for allograft and xenograft process solutions and cell culture and tissue solutions. The solutions can comprise an effective amount of one or more geobacillins in a physiological solution at a pH of between 3 and 8.

One or more geobacillins can be added to foods or beverages as a preservative. Examples of foods include processed cheese products pasteurized dairy products canned vegetables high moisture hot baked flour products pasteurized liquid egg natural cheese products. Geobacillin can also be used to control listeria in foods to control spoilage by lactic acid bacteria in e.g. beer wine alcohol production and low pH foods such as salad dressings. Geobacillins can be used as an adjunct in food processing technologies such as higher pressure sterilization and electroporation. Geobacillins can be present in a food or beverages in an amount from about 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 5 10 20 30 40 50 75 100 150 250 500 mg kg or mg l or any range between about 0.001 and about 500 mg kg or mg L and sometimes higher.

Compositions of the invention can be present in a kit comprising a container of one or more geobacillins of the invention. The geobacillins can be lyophilized and in the form of a lyophilized powder or tablet or can be in a solution or suspension optionally with buffers excipients diluents adjuvants or pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. A kit can also comprise one or more applicators for the one or more geobacillins to a body part or tissue or surface. The applicator can be for example a swab a syringe with or without a needle a dropper a sprayer a surgical dressing wound packing or a bandage. Optionally the kit can comprise one or more buffers diluents adjuvants therapeutically acceptable carriers or pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for reconstituting diluting or preparing the one or more geobacillins.

All patents patent applications and other scientific or technical writings referred to anywhere herein are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. The invention illustratively described herein suitably can be practiced in the absence of any element or elements limitation or limitations that are not specifically disclosed herein. Thus for example in each instance herein any of the terms comprising consisting essentially of and consisting of may be replaced with either of the other two terms while retaining their ordinary meanings. The terms and expressions which have been employed are used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention that in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof but it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed. Thus it should be understood that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed by embodiments optional features modification and variation of the concepts herein disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art and that such modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of this invention as defined by the description and the appended claims.

In addition where features or aspects of the invention are described in terms of Markush groups or other grouping of alternatives those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group or other group.

The following are provided for exemplification purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention described in broad terms above.

For all examples DNA polymerases restriction endonucleases and T4 DNA ligase were purchased from New England Biolabs. All oligonucleotides were purchased from Integrated DNA Technologies. Media components for bacterial cultures were purchased from Difco laboratories. Chemicals were purchased from Sigma Aldrich unless noted otherwise. Endoproteinase GluC sequencing grade was purchased from Roche Biosciences. Trypsin modified sequencing grade was purchased from Worthington Biosciences. Aminopeptidase was purchased from Sigma Aldrich ammonium sulfate suspension L5006 .

Genes typically found in lantibiotic biosynthetic gene clusters are present downstream of geoAI including genes encoding a dehydratase geoB ABC transporter geoT cyclase geoC a two component transcription regulator geoR and geoK and self immunity proteins geoI geoG geoE and geoF . Similar gene clusters with nearly identical precursor peptides the only difference being a Val for Ile change were also found in other genomes of and D but some of these clusters have frameshifted biosynthetic genes 18 . No gene was identified that encodes for a typical class I lantibiotic protease to remove the leader peptide.

A search of the non redundant protein database for homologs of the precursor peptide GeoAII did not find homologous precursor peptides of known lantibiotics suggesting it may be a novel class II lantibiotic. A gene encoding a precursor peptide differing in only one amino acid was found in the genome of sp. G11MC16 . Two start codons are present in frame at the N terminus of the leader peptide preventing prediction of the initiation codon and resulting in two possible precursor peptides . GeoAII contains a typical double glycine motif for proteolytic removal of the leader peptide in class II lantibiotics 19 20 . Leader sequence removal after the double Gly site is supported by the presence of a gene product GeoTII that shows homology with the family of AMS ABC transporter maturation and secretion proteins whose peptide substrates share the double glycine type cleavage site 20 . Like other family members GeoTII contains an N terminal Cys protease domain for leader peptide removal. The class II lanthionine synthetase GeoM is encoded by a gene located next to geoAII and has about 35 sequence identity to known LanM enzymes such as MrsM HalM1 and HalM2.

We screened seven different strains 21 for production of the predicted geobacillins DSM465OHT 1 sp. M10EXG OH2 1OH5 2NM16 2 and DSM7263 . The strains were purchased from the Genetic Stock Center. The strains were streaked on TBAB and mLB plates. A small amount of cells from a colony was picked from the plate with a pipette tip and was spotted on a MALDI plate. The sample was overlaid with 2 L of a 9 1 mixture of 2 5 dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2 hydroxy 5 methoxybenzoic acid matrix prepared in 60 acetonitrile 0.1 TFA in water 80 mg mL . A heat gun was used to dry the sample.

Whole cell matrix assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry MALDI MS 22 was used to investigate the production of geobacillin I and geobacillin II after 12 h 24 h and 48 h. MALDI ToF MS was carried out on a Voyager DE STR Applied Biosystems or Bruker Ultrafex TOF TOF. A mass corresponding to GeoAI after nine dehydrations and removal of the leader peptide at the predicted site was observed in both media for five of the strains after 24 h. Only NM16 2 and DSM7263 did not produce geobacillin I under the conditions used. A representative MALDI mass spectrum is shown in . All five organisms produced peptides of the same mass consistent with the near identical sequences of GeoAI observed in the currently sequenced genomes . All five observed peptides had masses consistent with a Val at position 15 rather than an Ile. These observations along with the genome data suggest very high conservation of the sequence of geobacillin I in the genus. The mass spectrum in also shows peaks corresponding to eight fold and seven fold dehydrated peptide reminiscent of incomplete dehydration of nisin in 6F3 23 .

Whole cell MALDI MS analysis did not show production of geobacillin II by any of the seven strains. In silico analysis revealed the presence of its class II gene cluster only in NG80 2 and sp. G11MC16 and not in any other sequenced genome 18 . Indeed attempts to detect the geoM biosynthetic gene in the genomic DNA of the seven strains used in this study by PCR with various degenerate primers were unsuccessful. All polymerase chain reactions PCR were carried out on a C1000 thermal cycler Bio Rad . DH5 was used as host for cloning and plasmid propagation and BL21 DE3 was used as a host for co expression.

Codon optimized synthetic genes for GeoAI GeoB GeoC GeoAII and GeoM were synthesized by GeneArt Invitrogen USA . For geobacillin I production geoAI was inserted in MCS1 of a pRSFDuet 1 vector using BamHI and Hindil restriction sites geoB in MCS2 using NdeI and XhoI sites and geoC in MCS2 of pACYCDuet 1 using NdeI and XhoI sites. This construct results in a hexa histidine tagged precursor peptide His GeoAI and an untagged GeoB protein. A synthetic gene encoding the cyclase GeoC was inserted into MCS 2 of a pACYCDuet 1 vector resulting in an untagged GeoC enzyme. Site directed mutagenesis was performed to mutate Asn at the 1 position of the GeoAI peptide to Lys to incorporate a trypsin cleavage site in the precursor peptide to be used for leader peptide removal. For primers see Table 1. BL21 DE3 cells were transformed with both plasmids and after induction of protein expression His GeoAI was purified from the cell lysate using nickel affinity chromatography followed by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography RP HPLC . 24 The modified precursor peptide was treated with trypsin and MALDI MS analysis of the resultant peptide demonstrated a nine fold dehydrated core peptide . As seen with the native producers peaks corresponding to eight and seven fold dehydrated peptides were also observed.

A similar approach was taken to produce geobacillin II. Synthetic genes encoding GeoAII and GeoM were inserted into MCS 1 and MCS 2 of a pRSFDuet 1 vector respectively. Site directed mutagenesis was performed to mutate the second Gly in the double Gly motif of the GeoAII peptide to Lys to incorporate a trypsin cleavage site for leader peptide removal. Co expression of GeoM with its substrate precursor peptide in at 37 C. and subsequent purification as described for geobacillin I resulted in five fold dehydrated peptide after trypsin removal of the leader peptide .

More specifically single colony transformants containing plasmids pRSFDuet 1 GeoAI GeoB and pACYCDuet 1 GeoC were picked and grown in LB media overnight. The culture was used to inoculate a 6 L culture in Terrific Broth media containing 50 mg L kanamycin and 34 mg L chloramphenicol. The culture was shaken at 200 rpm at 37 C. until the OD600 nm reached between 0.6 and 0.8. At this point the culture was induced with 0.5 mM IPTG. The induced cells were shaken continually at 37 C. for an additional 3 h and the cells were harvested by centrifugation 11 900 g for 10 min Beckman JLA 10.500 rotor . The cell pellet was resuspended in 50 mL of start buffer 20 mM Tris pH 8.0 500 mM NaCl 10 glycerol and cell lysis was carried out using a MultiFlex C3 homogenizer Avestin . The lysed cells were centrifuged at 23 700 g for 30 min at 4 C. The supernatant was loaded onto a HiTrap HP nickel affinity column GE Healthcare pre equilibrated with start buffer. The column was washed with wash buffer start buffer containing 30 mM imidazole and the peptide was eluted from the column with elution buffer start buffer containing 1 M imidazole . The pellet after the lysis step was homogenized using a sonicator 35 amplitude 4.4 s pulse 9.9 s pause for total 20 min in start buffer to remove any soluble proteins. The suspension was centrifuged and the pellet was homogenized in 30 mL of denaturing buffer 4 M guanidine hydrochloride 20 mM NaHPO 500 mM NaCL pH 7.5 . The supernatant after centrifugation was loaded onto a HiTrap HP nickel affinity column the column was washed with denaturing buffer containing 30 mM imidazole and the product was eluted with 15 mL of denaturing buffer containing 1 M imidazole. Small aliquots of eluent were desalted using a ZipTip C18 and analyzed for the presence of geobacillin I using MALDI MS. For large scale purification the eluent was desalted using preparative scale RP HPLC using a Waters Delta pak C4 15 m 300 25 100 mm PrepPak Cartridge. A gradient of 2 100 of solvent B 0.086 TFA in 80 ACN 20 water was used Solvent A 0.086 TFA in 2 ACN 98 water . Modified GeoAI started eluting at 55 B. The fractions containing modified GeoAI were lyophilized. For geobacillin II production GeoAII and GeoM were cloned in MCS1 and MCS2 of a pRSFDuet 1 vector respectively. Site directed mutagenesis was performed to change the glycine at position 8 to lysine pRSFDuet 1 GeoAII G 8K GeoM . Two other constructs were made in which glutamine at position 1 was either mutated to lysine pRSFDuet 1 GeoAII Q 1K GeoM or glutamate pRSFDuet 1 GeoAII G 8K Q 1E GeoM . Expression and purification of these constructs was conducted as described for geobacillin I.

A solution of 500 M posttranslationally modified GeoAI N 1K in 50 mM HEPES buffer pH 8.0 was treated with 0.5 M trypsin for 2 h. The product was analyzed using MALDI MS. The nine fold dehydrated and cyclized core peptide was purified using RP HPLC in order to remove incompletely dehydrated peptide and leader peptide using a Phenomenex Luna C18 column 250 10 mm 10 micron operating at a flow rate of 10 mL min. The program used was 3 min of solvent A 2 MeCN 0.1 TFA followed by a gradient of 2 100 solvent B 80 MeCN 0.1 TFA over 50 min. For preparation of geobacillin II GeoM modified and HPLC purified GeoAII G 8K Q 1E 100 M was treated with either 0.1 M trypsin 20 min. or 0.5 M GluC 2 h . GeoAII Q 1K 100 M was also treated with 0.1 M trypsin. The GluC cleaved GeoAII G 8K Q 1E peptide 25 L 100 M was further treated with 8 L Leu aminopeptidase for 24 h at 37 C. The resulting products were analyzed by MALDI MS and the observed and calculated molecular weights are summarized in Table 2.

The antimicrobial spectrum of geobacillin I and geobacillin II was investigated with a range of Gram positive bacteria. Geobacillin I was produced in as described above treated with trypsin purified by RP HPLC and used for MIC determinations in liquid medium 31 .

For MIC calculations a 48 well plate 300 L well size was used with shaking and a 96 well plate 200 L well size was used for non shaking conditions depending on the indicator strain. Serial dilutions of nisin and geobacillin I were prepared in sterile deionized water SDW . The 48 96 plate wells contained 50 75 L of diluted peptide at defined concentrations and 150 225 L of a 1 10 dilution approximately 1 10CFU mL of a culture of indicator strain diluted in fresh growth medium. Growth medium blank and negative controls lacking the lantibiotics were also prepared. Plates were incubated under appropriate growth conditions Table 4 and MIC calculations were performed by monitoring the OD. For agar diffusion bioactivity assays the appropriate agar media Table 4 was melted in a microwave kept at 45 C. for 10 min and mixed with 150 L of overnight culture of indicator organisms 10 10cfu . Then 10 L of a solution of 100 M peptide was spotted on the plate. For trypsin cleaved GeoAII Q 1K 10 L of 300 M peptide was spotted.

The compound was active against a wide range of Gram positive bacteria but it was not active against Gram negative . Interestingly in parallel experiments geobacillin I demonstrated three fold higher activity against ATCC 27957 than nisin. This bacterium is one of the causative agents of bovine mastitis 16 . Geobacillin I displayed similar activity as nisin against VRE and Sterne 7702 and had five fold lower activity against MRSA and ATCC 6633. Its antimicrobial activity against HP is about seven fold lower than nisin. As anticipated given the larger number of conformation restraining crosslinks and the thermophilic producing strain geobacillin I was more stable than nisin at pH 7 and 8.5 at 37 C. and at 60 C. See .

To determine the bioactivity of geobacillin II purified five fold dehydrated GeoAII in which the second Gly of the double glycine motif was mutated to Lys was treated with trypsin and checked for bioactivity. No antimicrobial activity was observed against any of the strains in Table 3. Although it is not unprecedented that lanthionine containing peptides do not demonstrate any antimicrobial activity 25 28 we wondered whether perhaps a second proteolytic cleavage event might be required. Removal of six additional N terminal residues after leader peptide cleavage at a double glycine site has been reported previously for several class II lantibiotics 29 32 . In some examples such as cytolysin from removal of these additional residues from the N terminus of the modified core peptide is necessary for bioactivity 30 but in other examples e.g. haloduracin 33 such removal is not required. A sequence alignment of the predicted core peptide of GeoAII with the core peptides of lantibiotics that are currently known to undergo a second proteolytic step is shown in . The N terminal amino acids of GeoAII display only low level sequence homology with the sequences that are removed in the other peptides but the presence of a Pro Gln sequence and the observation that the GeoAI leader peptide is removed at a Pro Asn site prompted us to investigate whether removal of additional amino acids might result in bioactivity. First a trypsin cleavage site was introduced into wild type GeoAII by mutation of Gln 1 to Lys this numbering assumes cleavage after ProGln . Unfortunately this mutant was not processed well in predominantly 4 dehydrations presumably because introduction of a positively charged residue is detrimental for GeoM activity. A different mutant was constructed next GeoAII Gln 1Glu and co expressed with GeoM in resulting in the desired five fold dehydrated peptide. Proteolysis with endoproteinase GluC did not result in efficient cleavage after the introduced Glu 1 presumably because the posttranslationally modified Ser at position 1 deactivates the engineered cleavage site. Instead GluC cleaved predominantly after Glu 5 resulting in the removal of only two residues Tyr and Thr at the N terminus compared to cleavage at the double Gly site. Interestingly this GluC treated core peptide induced zones of growth inhibition for strains in agar well diffusion assays . Thus removal of Tyr or Thr or both may be required for bioactivity. Geobacillin II only showed bioactivity against species and no activity against any other tested bacteria Table 5 . Attempts to increase the observed bioactivity by treatment with aminopeptidase 34 to remove additional amino acids for MS data see did not result in increased zones of growth inhibition compare spots 1 and 2 .

Because authentic geobacillin II is not produced by the seven strains we evaluated at present it is not clear where the core peptide of geobacillin II starts. We favor removal of the entire heptapeptide sequence YTEVSPQ SEQ ID NO 66 after initial removal of the leader peptide at the double Gly site for the following reasons. Firstly removal of this peptide would result from cleavage after Gln similar to the cleavage site for haloduracin from and similar to lantibiotic proteases such as NisP involved in nisin biosynthesis 35 . A LanP type protease is not present in the gene cluster or elsewhere in the genome and therefore like for haloduracin the identity of the protease is not known but the same protease may remove the leader of GeoAI at its Pro Asn cleavage site. Secondly cleavage after the ProGIn sequence would result in an N terminal structure very similar to that of haloduracin plantaricin and cytolysin CyIL .

However possible alternative geobacillin II structures are shown in . The structures differ depending on where the proteolysis occurs on the N terminus and whether ring A is formed by cyclization of Cys onto Dha or Dhb .

Stock solutions of nisin A and geobacillin I 30 M were prepared in 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer 100 mM NaCl at pH 7.0 and 8.0. The stock solutions were divided into 200 L aliquots in sterile eppendorf tubes and were incubated at 37 C. and 60 C. At set time points a tube was opened and analyzed by agar diffusion growth inhibition assay . The agar diffusion growth inhibition assay was carried out in sterile Nunc OmniTrays. Molten agar 20 mL was inoculated with 200 L of overnight culture of ATCC 6633 diluted to ODof 1.0. An additional 30 mL molten agar combined with 300 L cells was poured over the solidified agar. A sterile 96 well PCR plate was carefully placed on the upper molten agar layer. Following solidification the PCR plate was removed and 20 L of peptide solution was added to the wells. After 20 min another 20 L of peptide solution was added. This procedure was repeated one more time to add a combined total volume of 60 L. The samples at 37 C. were also analyzed by HPLC but for a shorter time period. At later time points the amount of remaining intact peptides was difficult to determine because of closely eluting breakdown products. The main breakdown product of geobacillin I appeared to be an oxidation product M 16 but this did not appear to significantly affect the antimicrobial activity.

Agar diffusion growth inhibition assays were conducted with 6633 to determine the relative stabilities of geobacillin I and nisin A at pH 7.0 or pH 8.0 and 60 C. Aliquots of 60 L of 30 M solutions of compound that had been incubated for the time shown in hours were added to each well. The diameters of the zones of growth inhibition show that geobacillin I displays greater stability than nisin A.

Agar diffusion growth inhibition assays were also conducted with 6633 to determine the relative stabilities of geobacillin I and nisin A at pH 7.0 and pH 8.0 at 37 C. Aliquots of 60 L of 30 M solutions of compound that had been incubated for the time shown in days were added to each well. The diameters of the zones of growth inhibition show that geobacillin I displays greater stability. Nisin standards 60 L per well are shown on the left.

Agar diffusion growth inhibitions assays were conducted with MOPS buffer. Stock solutions of nisin A and geobacillin I 50 M were prepared in MOPS buffer 50 mM 3 N morpholino propanesulfonic acid 100 mM NaCl at pH 7.0. The stock solutions were divided into 200 L aliquots in sterile eppendorf tubes and were incubated at 37 C. At set time points a tube was opened and analyzed by agar diffusion growth inhibition assay. The agar diffusion growth inhibition assay was carried out in sterile Nunc OmniTrays. Molten agar 20 mL was inoculated with 200 L of overnight culture of ATCC 6633 diluted to OD600 of 1.0. An additional 30 mL molten agar combined with 300 L cells was poured over the solidified agar. A sterile 96 well PCR plate was carefully placed on the upper molten agar layer. Following solidification the PCR plate was removed and 20 L of peptide solution was added to the wells. After 20 min another 20 L of peptide solution was added. This procedure was repeated one more time with 10 L to add a combined total volume of 50 L. The resulting zones of growth inhibition are shown in A C. It can be seen that the zones of inhibition decrease over time for nisin but not for geobacillin I illustrating higher stability of the latter.

Tandem mass spectrometric analysis has been previously used to determine the ring topology of lanthionine containing peptides that do not contain overlapping rings 32 36 and for some of these peptides the topology determined by tandem MS studies has been confirmed by NMR spectroscopy 37 38 . In this work tandem MS was used to determine the ring pattern of geobacillin II because the amounts of material generated were insufficient for NMR studies. Liquid chromatography electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry was carried out and processed using a Synapt ESI quadrupole ToF Mass Spectrometry System Waters equipped with an Acquity Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography UPLC system Waters .

The precursor peptide GeoAII was co expressed with GeoM in purified by IMAC chromatography and treated with GluC to remove the leader peptide. The resulting five fold dehydrated peptide was fragmented by collision induced dissociation resulting in the fragment ions indicated in see also . The observed ions are inconsistent with overlapping rings and agree very well with four non overlapping rings. Based on these data and the discussion in the previous section on the likely N terminal amino acid the structure shown in is proposed for geobacillin II.

It was not possible to use tandem MS to determine the structure of geobacillin I because of overlapping rings. Therefore extensive NMR characterization was carried out on the compound produced in . First nearly all resonances were assigned by TOCSY and gradient Double Quantum filtered COSY experiments. The assignments were further verified by determining the connectivities of d as well as dfrom a water suppressed NOESY spectrum mixing time 0.15 s and taking into consideration the known linear amino acid sequence. Finally a NOESY spectrum was acquired in DO to determine intra bridge NOEs which facilitated the assignment of thioether links. A longer mixing time of 0.40 s was employed in this experiment to obtain stronger NOE signals. The observed cross peaks arising from correlations of H H H H H H H H and H H. indicates proton across the thioether bridge were used primarily to identify the ring patterns of six of the seven Lan and MeLan residues. The final Lan ring involving Cys30 and Dha26 could not be assigned based on the NMR data because of identical chemical shifts of the protons but given that all other rings were assigned one possibility exists for this last ring the F ring . The final structure determined by NMR spectroscopy is shown in .

NMR spectra were acquired at the NMR Facility School of Chemical Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign on a Varian INOVA 600 MHz spectrometer equipped with a 5 mm triple resonance H C N triaxial gradient probe. Lyophilized peptides were dissolved in 90 HO 10 DO to a final concentration of 3 mM. 3 Trimethylsilyl propionic acid dsodium salt DSS was added to a final concentration of 1 mM to reference the spectrum. NMR spectra were acquired at 20 C. for 1028 detected and 400 512 indirect data points with 32 scans. TOCSY mixing time 0.080 s gDQCOSY and NOESY spectra were acquired with solvent suppression by transmitter presaturation. NOESY spectra with different mixing times of 0.15 s 0.20 and 0.40 s were recorded. The peptides were lyophilized and redissolved in 100 DO and a NOESY spectrum was acquired without exchangeable proton signals in order to assign the ring patterns. Spectra were processed with NMRPipe 49 and analyzed in Sparky 50 . Resonances were first assigned to amino acids in order to determine the ring topology. The amino acid assignments were obtained primarily by TOCSY shown in and gDQCOSY. The chemical shifts of amide protons of geobacillin I in 90 HO and 10 DO were between 7 and 10 ppm most of which showed good chemical shift dispersion in the TOCSY spectrum. Each vertical line in the TOCSY spectrum corresponds to one residue which was assigned to an amino acid by taking into account their characteristic chemical shifts and expected number of resonances. The amide protons of Dhb2 and Dha5 not involved in the thioether rings were not detected under the conditions used. Assignments of each spin system to specific amino acids in the peptide sequence were based on the connectivity of d shown in in a water suppressed NOESY spectrum mixing time 0.15 s taking into consideration the linear amino acid sequence translated from the gene sequence.

A NOESY spectrum was acquired in DO in order to obtain clear intra bridge NOEs by removing all correlations arising from the amide protons which facilitated the assignment of thioether linkages. A longer mixing time of 0.40 s was employed to obtain stronger NOE signals. Cross peaks arising from H H H H H H H H and H H intrabridge correlations of protons that originated from either Ser Thr or from Cys residues indicated with see were used primarily to identify the ring patterns of Lan and MeLan residues. The 33 residue geobacillin I had seven methyl lanthionine rings making the assignment quite challenging. The methyllanthionine rings B C and D were easier to assign than lanthionine rings because of the relatively larger chemical shifts of their protons often higher than 3.5 and the presence of methyl protons in the high field region for which signal overlap of the H H and H H correlations was less prominent. The lanthionine rings 1 5 and 7 were assigned based on the H H and H H cross peaks arising from NOEs of protons on opposites sides of the thioether bridge. Because the signal overlap in the 3.0 3.2 ppm region was significant not all assignments of the H H cross peaks were diagnostic. In those cases H H correlations were useful in cases where the proton showed good separation from the other a protons e.g. the proton of Ala S 3. In cases when the protons gave ambiguous assignment e.g. in the case of rings E and G H H correlations acquired in a water suppressed NOESY spectrum in 90 HO 10 DO were also taken into consideration to take advantage of the readily distinguishable amide proton chemical shifts. Collectively this approach allowed assignment of all resonances to individual residues and therefore the topology of the rings except for Ala S 26 and Cys30. The degeneracy of the H chemical shifts of Ala S 26 and Cys30 made it impossible to identify ring 6 on the basis of the NMR data. However the H chemical shifts of Ala S 26 clearly indicated that it was involved in a ring. Given that the thioether connectivities of all the other Cys residues had been assigned to an Ala S Abu S we concluded that Cys30 must form a ring with Dha26.

GeoAII modified by GeoM and treated with GluC was subjected to ESI MSMS analysis using collision induced dissociation. For tandem MS 10 L of the peptide was injected into a BEH C8 column 1.7 m 1.0 100 mm and separated by UPLC using a gradient of 3 mobile phase A 0.1 formic acid in water to 97 mobile phase B 0.1 formic acid in methanol over 12 min. The instrument settings used included capillary voltage and cane voltage of 3500 V and 40 V respectively 120 C. as source temperature 300 C. as desolvation temperature cone gas flow of 150 L h and desolvation gas flow of 600 L h. A transfer collision energy of 4 V was used for both MS and tandem MS while the trap collision energy was set to 6 V for MS and a fixed energy of 25 V was used for tandem MS.

The stereochemical purity of methyl lanthionine was determined by acid hydrolysis of geobacillin I and chemical derivatization of the resulting amino acids as previously described 28 52 . The derivatized material was then analyzed by GC MS. Wild type GeoAI fully modified by GeoB and GeoC in and with its leader attached 1.2 mg was dissolved in 6 mL of 6 M HCl. The mixture was heated at 110 C. in a sealed tube for 24 h. The reaction was cooled and dried under nitrogen overnight. Methanol 5 mL was chilled in an ice water bath and acetyl chloride 1.5 mL was added dropwise. This solution was added to the hydrolyzed geobacillin I and heated at 110 C. for 1 h. The sample was cooled and dried under a stream of nitrogen. CHCl 3 mL and pentafluoropropionic anhydride 1 mL was added and the material was heated at 110 C. for 40 min. The reaction was allowed to cool and dried under a stream of nitrogen. The hydrolyzed and derivatized geobacillin I was taken up in methanol. Nisin A purified from commercial nisaplin was also derivatized using the procedure described above. The derivatized amino acids from geobacillin I nisin A as well as synthetic methyl lanthionine standards 53 were analyzed by GC MS using an Agilent HP 5973 mass spectrometer and a Varial CP Chirasil L Val 25 m 0.25 mm 0.15 M silica column. The samples were introduced to the instrument via a pulsed splitless injection at an inlet temperature of 200 C. and flow rate of 2 ml min helium gas. The temperature gradient used was 160 C. for 5 min then 160 C. to 200 C. at 3 C. min. The MS was operated in simultaneous scan single ion monitoring SIM mode monitoring at fragment masses of 365 for lanthionine and 379 for methyllanthionine 53 . The total ion chromatogram for geobacillin I is shown in . The derivatized lanthionine and methyllanthionine present in hydrolyzed geobacillin I and nisin A samples are shown in respectively. shows GC MS trace SIM 379 Da 365 Da of derivatized methyl lanthionine obtained from geobacillin I peak with shoulders at 365 Da overlayed with a GC MS trace of a synthetic 2S 3S 6R methyl lanthionine standard largest peak at 379 Da and a 2S 6R lanthionine standard largest peak at 365 Da no peak at 379 Da . The intensities were normalized to 1.0 for the largest peak. The small shoulders on the derivatized lanthionine peak have been reported previously and arise from partial epimetization during the acid hydrolysis 52 . shows GC MS traces SIM 379 Da 365 Da for derivatized methyl lanthionine obtained from hydrolyzed geobacillin I largest peak at 365 Da smallest peak at 379 Da compared with derivatized methyl lanthionine obtained from nisin A largest peak at 379 Da smallest peak at 365 Da . The stereochemistry of the derivatized methyl lanthionines is the same for both compounds and the relative ratio of Lan to MeLan of the two compounds is close to the predictions from the structures in 1 Lan 4 MeLan in nisin A and 4 Lan 3 MeLan in geobacillin I. The intensities were normalized to 1.0 for the largest peak.

The Lan and MeLan derivatives eluted at identical retention times with methyl lanthionine standards confirming that methyl lanthionines in nisin and geobacillin I have the same configuration 2S 3S 6R methyllanthionine and 2S 6R lanthionine.

Using similar methodology it was determined that geobacillin II contains no methyllanthionines and only lanthionines consistent with the structure shown in see E . Geobacillin II ring A has LL stereochemistry 2R 6R while the Ring A of certain mutants have a mixture of 2R 6R and 2S 6R stereochemistry.

The synthetic genes for precursor peptide GeoAII and the modification enzyme GeoM were obtained by digestion of the vectors in which they were purchased with the restriction enzymes NdeI XhoI and NdeI HindIII respectively. The amplifications were run on 1 agarose gel and the products were purified using a QIAquick Gel Extraction Kit QIAGEN . The purified DNA inserts were ligated into the digested pET15b and pET28 vector respectively at 24 C. for 3 hours using T4 DNA ligase. The ligation reaction mixture was diluted 10 times with water prior to the transformation. DH5 cells were transformed with the ligation product using heat shock. Three colonies were picked and grown overnight in LB medium containing appropriate antibiotics based on the plasmid used. The plasmid DNA was isolated using a QIAprep Spin Miniprep Kit QIAGEN and the desired sequences of the resulting plasmids pET15 His GeoAII and pET28 His GeoM were confirmed by DNA sequencing using the appropriate primers at the Biotechnology Center of the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign. For expression of the precursor peptide GeoAII chemically competent BL21 DE3 cells were transformed with pET15 His GeoAII. An overnight culture from a single colony transformant was used as inoculum for 6 L of LB medium containing 100 g L ampicillin and the culture was grown at 37 C. until the ODreached about 0.6. The culture was then induced with 0.5 mM IPTG and the induced cells were grown for an additional 2.5 h. The cells were harvested by centrifugation 11 900 g for 10 min Beckman JLA 10.500 rotor . The cell pellet was resuspended in 45 mL of start buffer 20 mM Tris pH 8.0 500 mM NaCl 10 glycerol and lysed with a MultiFlex C3 homogenizer Avestin . The sample was centrifuged at 23 700 g for 30 min at 4 C. The pellet from this step was homogenized using a sonicator 35 amplitude 4.4 s pulse 9.9 s pause for a total of 20 min in 30 mL of denaturing buffer 6 M guanidine hydrochloride 20 mM NaHPO 500 mM NaCL pH 7.5 . The insoluble portion was removed by centrifugation and the supernatant was loaded onto a 5 mL HiTrap HP nickel affinity column. The column was washed with denaturing buffer containing 30 mM imidazole and eluted with 15 mL of denaturing buffer containing 1 M imidazole. Desalting of the eluent was performed using preparative scale RP HPLC using a Waters Delta pak C4 PrepPak Cartridge 15 m 300 25 100 mm . A gradient of 2 100 of solvent B 0.086 TFA in 80 acetonitrile 20 water was used. The fractions containing His GeoAII were lyophilized and analyzed by MALDI TOF MS. For expression of modification enzyme His GeoM chemically competent BL21 DE3 cells were transformed with pET28 His GeoM. GeoM is an ATP dependent enzyme that acts in lanthionine ring formation. Single colony transformants were grown in a 37 C. shaker for 12 15 h in 30 mL of LB medium supplemented with 50 g mL kanamycin. These cultures were used to inoculate 4 L of LB media and grown at 37 C. until the ODwas 0.7. IPTG was added to a final concentration of 0.2 mM and the cultures were grown at 18 C. for an additional 12 h. Cells were harvested by centrifugation at 5000 g for 25 min at 4 C. The cell paste was resuspended in 20 mM Tris HCl 500 mM NaCl 10 glycerol pH 8.0. The cells were lysed using a C3 Homogenizer Avestin Inc. . The lysed cells were pelleted by centrifugation at 3500 g for 25 min. The purification by nickel column chromatography was accomplished using a 5 mL HiTrap chelating HP nickel affinity column GE Healthcare on an AKTA FPLC system Amersham Pharmacy Biosystems . The supernatant from the centrifugation step was applied to the column using a 50 mL superloop. The protein was detected by absorbance at 280 nm. The column was washed with buffer A containing 1 M NaCl 20 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 and 30 mM imidazole to remove any non specifically bound proteins until a flat baseline was observed. A gradient of 0 100 B over 30 min was used to elute the bound proteins where buffer B contained 1 M NaCl 20 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 and 200 mM imidazole. The most concentrated fraction 4 mL containing GeoM as determined by SDS PAGE was loaded onto an S 200 gel filtration column Amersham Biosciences equilibrated and eluted with 20 mM HEPES pH 7.5 100 mM NaCl. The eluted protein was stored at 80 C. until use. The activity assay contained 20 M His GeoAII 2 M His GeoM 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5 1 mM TCEP 10 mM MgCl and 5 mM ATP. The activity assays were incubated at 37 C. 45 C. 55 C. 65 C. 75 C. and 80 C. for 2 h. After 2 h 1 M His GeoM and 2.5 mM ATP was added and activity assays were incubated for additional 1 h. The product was desalted using a C18 ziptip and analyzed by MALDI MS analysis. The results are shown in . GeoM retained biological activity at 37 C. 45 C. 55 C. 65 C. 75 C. and 80 C.

Geobacillin I has the same mode of action as nisin. That is it inhibits peptidoglycan formation by binding to lipid II in a dose dependent manner. shows that the transglycosylase reaction that forms the peptidoglycan is inhibited by geobacillin I.

The availability of a rapidly increasing number of bacterial genomes is starting to shift the search for new gene encoded peptide natural products from activity based discovery platforms to gene based discovery approaches 39 41 . In the lantibiotic group of compounds genome mining has resulted in the discovery of several new family members 27 42 43 including the first lantibiotic from an alkaliphilic organism 31 44 . In addition a large number of biosynthetic gene clusters has been identified that remain to be explored experimentally 18 45 . Our attention was drawn to genomes of thermophiles since only one lantibiotic from a thermophilic organism has been reported 46 . The lantibiotics produced by such organisms could find potential applications as they may be more stable than lantibiotics produced by mesophilic bacteria. Particularly interesting was the discovery of nisin precursor genes in the genomes of because their sequence suggested that the posttranslationally modified products would contain additional rings. Indeed the masses of the compounds produced by five strains and the corresponding lantibiotic heterologously produced in showed nine dehydrations and the NMR structure determined for the latter compound demonstrated seven thioether crosslinks including conservation of the A and B rings found in nisin that are important for lipid II binding 4 6 . In all 16 out of the 33 residues in the core peptide of GeoAI are posttranslationally modified and the final product geobacillin I was shown to have high antimicrobial activity against several pathogens.

This study demonstrates that lantibiotics may be produced in nature at temperatures as high as 50 80 C. the temperature of the deep sub surface Dagang oilfield where NG80 2 was isolated. The successful production of geobacillin I and II in was therefore somewhat surprising because many enzymes from thermophilic organisms are usually non functional at 37 C. However GeoB GeoC and GeoM carried out dehydrations and cyclizations with apparently high efficiency at this temperature. The demonstration that removal of additional amino acids past the double Gly protease cleavage site of geobacillin II resulted in bioactivity along with the sequence homology with other lantibiotics that undergo a second step of proteolytic processing support the lantibiotic structure shown in .

