---

title: Imaging antenna and related techniques
abstract: An antenna array includes a plurality of antenna elements. The antenna elements include layers of dielectric material; an antenna inlaid in a top layer of the dielectric material so a surface of the antenna is substantially parallel to an outer surface of the top layer of dielectric material; and a conductive balun, coupled to the antenna, and embedded in one or more layers of the dielectric material. The antenna array is operative to receive signals from V to W frequency band transmissions generated by a heat source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09329255&OS=09329255&RS=09329255
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 09329255
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130624
---
The invention or inventions disclosed in this document were made with government support under contract number N68936 12 C 0114. The government has certain rights in the invention s .

Subject matter disclosed in this document relates to antenna systems and more particularly to antenna array elements for imaging systems.

Many modern imaging antenna applications require broad bandwidth in array antennas. In addition many of these applications also require high isolation and low cross polarization between antenna elements. A further desirable quantity is for the elements of an array antenna to have coincident phase centers for different polarizations to reduce the need for complicated polarization calibrations. Imaging arrays present a significant challenge in material selection apparatus design development of materials adaptation Hints dielectric layers and manufacturing processes to manufacture the photonic detectors pixels array. It is also generally desirable that antenna designs be relatively easy and low cost to manufacture. Due to size and weight constraints in some applications it may also be desirable that antennas be lightweight and relatively low profile. Thus there is a general need for antenna designs that are capable of providing some or all of these various attributes.

In accordance with one aspect of the concepts systems circuits and techniques described herein an array antenna comprises a plurality of layers of dielectric material and a log periodic toothed planar antenna. The planar antenna includes two substantially planar conductive sections which are inlaid in a top layer of the dielectric material so a top surface of the planar sections is substantially perpendicular to an outer surface of the top layer of dielectric material. The antenna also includes a conductive balun comprising at least two conductive sections each of the conductive sections coupled to one of the planar sections of the antenna and embedded in one or more layers of the dielectric material. The balun extends through at least some of the layers of dielectric material in a direction substantially perpendicular to the planar conductive sections of the antenna. At least two conductive sections of the balun are arranged in an alternating staircase pattern.

In another embodiment an imaging system comprises a two dimensional array of antenna sections each antenna section including a plurality of layers of dielectric materials and a log periodic toothed planar antenna. The planar antenna includes two substantially planar conductive sections which are inlaid in a top layer of the dielectric material so a top surface of the planar sections is substantially perpendicular to an outer surface of the top layer of dielectric material. The antenna also includes a conductive balun comprising at least two conductive sections each of the conductive sections coupled to one of the planar sections of the antenna and embedded in one or more layers of the dielectric material. The balun extends through at least some of the layers of dielectric material in a direction substantially perpendicular to the planar conductive sections of the antenna. At least two conductive section of the balun are arranged in an alternating staircase pattern.

Each antenna element may provide a pixel for use in an imaging system. The pixels provided by each antenna can be compiled and processed to form an image. The use of small or sub compact antenna elements increases the pixel density of the processed image. Thus the array antenna is well suited for imaging systems for example systems that receive electromagnetic radiation from randomly generated body heat and form an image of the source of the radiation.

In an embodiment array antenna comprises a layered substrate which will be discussed below. The substrate may be a semiconductor substrate such as a doped silicon die or other substrate having layers of dielectric material. In embodiments the substrate may be constructed so that different layers of the substrate have different dielectric properties.

The substrate may be sectioned into a two dimensional array of antenna elements as shown in . In an embodiment during manufacturing antenna elements may be formed in or on the substrate. In another embodiment antenna elements may be constructed individually and subsequently arranged into an array. Although shown as a two dimensional array the array of antenna elements may be a linear array a series of linear arrays a series of two dimensional arrays etc.

Antenna component may be designed to receive radiation in the microwave spectrum for example in the W band i.e. 75 to 110 GHz in the V band i.e. 50 to 75 GHz in the U band i.e. 40 to 60 GHz or in any other microwave frequency range. Using the W band as an example if antenna component is designed to receive W band signals may be chosen to be 11 10meters which may roughly correlate to a center frequency of 90 GHz. can also be chosen as any wavelength according to design requirements for antenna array and or antenna component and according to a desired center frequency or frequency band to be received. In certain embodiments may be chosen as a wavelength in the W band and the resulting antenna component may be able to successfully receive signals in other bands such as the V band the U band the F band the D band etc.

As shown in antenna component includes a substrate and one or more antenna elements . The antenna elements and may be formed from a conductive material such as copper and may form a logarithm planar antenna that creates a differential signal representing the microwave signals received by the antenna elements and . In an embodiment antenna elements and may form a dipole antenna. Antenna elements and may also be formed from other conductive materials including but not limited to metals ceramics electrolytes carbon or graphite based material conductive polymers and the like.

In an embodiment first layer and second layer comprise a dielectric epoxy material. The material may have a dielectric constant of about 2.9 and a loss tangent of about 0.04. During manufacturing layer may be formed on substrate . Subsequently antenna elements and may be masked and or etched or otherwise formed onto the surface of layer . Once antenna elements and are formed layer of dielectric material may be deposited on top of layer in the areas not covered by antenna elements and . Alternatively the dielectric material of layer may be deposited onto the surface of substrate so that layer covers both layer and the antenna elements. In an embodiment material may then be removed from the top surface of substrate until antenna elements and are exposed and the surface of antenna element and antenna element is flush or parallel with the surface of layer . However removal of the material to expose antenna elements and is not a requirement.

Layers and may comprise the same or a similar dielectric epoxy. As noted above the dielectric epoxy in layers and may have a dielectric constant of about 2.9 and a loss tangent of about 0.04. These constants are provided as examples only the material in layers and may have other dielectric constants and loss tangents as desired. Also layers and may be formed from different dielectric materials if desired.

Layers and are conductive layers. For example layers and may be copper aluminum gold or any other type of conductive material. In an embodiment layers and are electrically connected to a ground reference and act as ground planes for the antenna array .

Reference designator denotes a multi layered section of substrate . These layers in section may be relatively thinner than layers and or . Accordingly these layers are broken out and enlarged in .

As shown in substrate includes layers and or . Layer in an embodiment may be a dielectric material such as a polyimide and may have a dielectric constant of 6.5 and a loss tangent of 0.01. Layers may also be dielectric materials such as silicon dioxide doped silicon dioxide other silicon dioxide composites glass glassy carbon or other materials having desired dielectric properties. In an embodiment the layers of substrate have properties according to the following table 

The table above illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the layers in substrate and is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure. The layers above can be removed replaced or modified with material having different properties as required by design requirements.

Antenna elements and may comprise a log periodic toothed planar array antenna where antenna element is one side of the log periodic planar antenna and antenna element is the other side of the log periodic planar antenna. In an embodiment antenna element has a central body with a roughly triangular shape with a point or apex of the triangle terminating at or near a central point . Extending from the central body are a series of teeth or leaves . The leaves extend from the body and have a curvature or radius relative to central point . The leaves closest to central point may be relatively smaller in width and length and the leaves further from central point may increase in width and length the further they are from central point . As shown the leaves extend from the body in an alternating pattern relative to their distance from central point . In other words as body extends radially from central point leaves extend first from one side of body then on the other side etc. so that the leaves alternate sides.

In an embodiment the leaves of the antenna may approximate the shape of a spiral planar antenna. However leaves need not form a spiral. For example the curvature of leaves may follow a spiral pattern. In other embodiments leaves may have a circular elliptical semi circular or arced pattern as shown in .

In an embodiment antenna elements and may each have four leaves on one side of body and five leaves on the other side of body . However this is not a requirement. Antenna elements and can have more or fewer leaves on each side of body . The leaves may increase in length and thickness as they increase in distance from central point .

Antenna element may also include a hole . As shown in and C hole is positioned relatively close to the center point . Hole may have a diameter sufficiently large to allow a portion of a balun structure to extend through hole and sufficiently small so that the inner surface of hole makes electrical contact with the balun.

Antenna elements and may be radially symmetric i.e. antenna element and antenna element may be identical about the central point . Accordingly antenna element may include at least all the features described above with respect to antenna element including but not limited to body leaves and hole .

Balun extends through substrate substantially perpendicularly to antenna elements and . By extending balun down through the substrate antenna component can be constructed in a sub compact arrangement because the area and volume used by antenna elements and and balun is reduced.

Balun when electrically connected to antenna element and antenna element may act to extend the electrical length of antenna element and antenna element so that the antenna length is a multiple of a quarter wavelength of the intended frequency to be received by antenna component i.e. so that the electrical length is the same as or similar to 4 2 etc. However this is not a requirement. For example the electrical length of the antenna may be a quarter wavelength at a high frequency but may be less than a quarter wavelength for slower frequencies which can also be received by the antenna. This is due at least in part to the balun being embedded in the layers of dielectric material which effectively increases the electrical length of the balun .

Balun acts to electrically extend the length of the antenna by affecting the impedance capacitance resistance and other electrical properties of the antenna. As described previously balun may be embedded within dielectric layers of substrate . Also dielectric material may fill voids within balun as shown in . The geometry of balun through the substrate material may allow balun to affect the impedance and capacitance of the antenna to effectively extend the electrical length of the antenna.

The electrical length of the antenna and or the balun may be less than a quarter wavelength of the intended frequency. As is known extending the electrical length of the antenna can aid in reception of the intended frequencies by the antenna. In an embodiment the electrical length of the antenna and or the balun may be less than a quarter wavelength of the intended frequency. For example the dielectric material in which balun is embedded and which fills voids within balun imparts electrical properties on balun making balun appear i.e. act as though it is electrically longer than its physical dimensions.

As shown in balun may extend through multiple layers of substrate . In embodiments balun is embedded within the dielectric epoxy material of layers and See . In certain embodiments balun may also be embedded in or extend through layers See .

Balun may also pass through conductive layers and . As such conductive layers and may contain one or more holes through which balun can extend so that balun does not make direct electrical contact with layers and which may be coupled to ground. Referring briefly to a conductive layer or a similar layer is shown from a top view. Conductive layer and or conductive layer includes one or more holes through which balun can extend so that balun does not come in direction contact with conductive layer and or conductive layer .

Referring again to balun comprises a series of annular sections . Annular sections may be substantially cylindrical conductive elements having a hollow core as seen in . In embodiments the hollow core may be filled with a dielectric material which may be the same as or similar to the dielectric epoxy comprising the layers of substrate . The annular sections may all have the same diameter or may have differing diameters as desired.

Annular sections may each have a top end and a bottom end coupled to a substantially planar conductive element . Annular sections and conductive elements are connected to form a transverse pattern where annular sections are placed in alternating positions with respect to conductive elements . This so called alternating staircase pattern forms a substantially alternating or zigzag conduction path as shown by line . This allows balun to provide a sufficiently long conduction path for antenna component to receive microwave signals while conserving the amount of area and or volume used by balun within substrate .

Although shown as having three annular sections on each side of the balun balun may include more or fewer than three annular sections and thus more or fewer conductive elements as desired. Reducing the number of annular sections may reduce the electrical length of balun and increasing the number of annular sections may increase the electrical length of balun .

Balun also includes one or more antenna connectors that electrically couple balun to antenna elements and . Antenna connectors may extend through the holes in the antenna elements and as shown in . Accordingly antenna connectors may have a diameter sufficiently large so that the outer surface of connectors comes in electrical contact with the inner surface of holes .

Antenna connectors may be annular connectors with a substantially cylindrical shape and may have a hollow core . The hollow core may be filled with a dielectric material similar to or the same as the dielectric material used in one or more of the layers of substrate . In an embodiment the diameter of the connectors and holes may be smaller than the diameter of annular sections . However this is not a requirement. In other embodiments the diameter of connectors and holes may be the same as or greater than the diameters of annular sections .

Referring again to balun may also comprise one or more terminal connectors . Terminal connectors may also be substantially cylindrical annular sections having a hollow core not shown filled with dielectric material. The dielectric material may be similar to or the same as the dielectric material comprising one or more layers of substrate .

In embodiments terminal connectors are coupled to external circuitry capable of receiving signals from antenna component . For example terminal connectors may be coupled to an amplifier a filter a processor or another circuit capable of receiving and processing signals coupled by antenna component as antenna component receives microwave transmissions and signals. In an embodiment terminal connectors extend through the bottom substrate so that external electrical connections can be made to terminal connectors . In another embodiment terminal connectors are embedded within substrate and are coupled to connectors that extend externally to substrate .

For example turning to the embodiment illustrated in terminal connectors are coupled to connection pads . Connection pads may be placed on or proximate to the bottom of substrate so that they come in contact with the portion of terminal connectors that extend through substrate . Alternatively connection pads may be embedded within the material of substrate . Connection pads may be made from a conductor such as copper or gold to facilitate electrical connection between balun and external circuitry.

Connection pads may be coupled to a signal lead such as signal lead in . Signal lead can extend externally to substrate and can be connected to external circuitry that receives and processes the signal received by the antenna. In an embodiment signal lead is coupled to an external low noise amplifier LNA and or filter that receives the signal from antenna component . Although not shown a signal lead may be coupled to and extend from each connection pad .

A conductor may be positioned adjacent to the signal leads . In an embodiment conductor may be positioned below signal leads . Conductor may be coupled to a ground reference so that conductor acts as a ground plane to enhance signal quality of the signals on signal leads . Additionally alternatively conductor may act as an impedance transformer to match the impedance of the signal paths of the antenna to external circuitry connections.

Referring again to and an antenna component may be used to receive microwave transmissions or signals. Antenna component may be used as a single i.e. stand alone element or may be incorporated into an antenna array . In operation antenna array may receive multiple microwave transmissions. In other words each antenna component within antenna array may receive a separate microwave transmission. When used in antenna array each antenna component represents photonic detector and the signal produced by each antenna component represents a pixel that can be subsequently processed and reconstructed to form a two dimensional image of the original signal source. In an embodiment the original signal source is a body that generates random heat i.e. a randomly generated heat source. Antenna component and antenna array may be useful in various application including imaging missile guidance targeting surveillance etc.

In the description above various features techniques and concepts are described in the context of an imaging antenna array and antenna components. It should be appreciated however that these features are not limited to use within an imaging array. That is most of the described features may be implemented in any type of antenna application.

Having described exemplary embodiments of the invention it will now become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments incorporating their concepts may also be used. The embodiments contained herein should not be limited to the disclosed embodiments but rather should be limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims. All publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

