---

title: Enabling transfer of digital assets
abstract: Techniques for managing digital assets are described that enable a principal to designate a plurality of users that will gain access and ownership of the principal's account that contains the various digital assets of the principal in the event of a transfer of assets. The account may be a network accessible account that maintains various digital assets of the principal, such as multimedia, applications, virtual machines, data, and others. In the event of a transfer, access to the account can be controlled by a cryptographic secret, where each of the designated users has been provided with a distinct share (part) of the cryptographic secret. A minimum number of shares of the secret are required before access to the principal's account will be granted. The minimum number may be configured by the principal in advance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411982&OS=09411982&RS=09411982
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09411982
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20130807
---
As an increasing number of applications and services are being made available over networks such as the Internet an increasing number of content application and or service providers are turning to technologies such as cloud computing. Cloud computing in general is an approach to providing access to electronic resources through services such as Web services where the hardware and or software used to support those services is dynamically scalable to meet the needs of the services at any given time. A user or customer typically will rent lease or otherwise pay for access to resources e.g. virtual machines block data storage etc. through the cloud and thus does not have to purchase and maintain the hardware and or software needed. For example customers may store various digital assets such as documents photos music videos applications on resources of a service provider from whom the customers may have purchased at least a subset of those assets and the service provider may enable the customers to access their assets at any time they wish using a network connection such as the Internet. In some cases the customers of the service providers are individuals while in other cases the customers are corporations or other business entities.

While customers are generally allowed to access their digital assets at any time there is significant uncertainty regarding the question of what happens to those assets at the time when the customer no longer exists. For example if an individual owner of the account dies or if the company that is the owner of the account is acquired or dissolved it can be unclear as to what happens to the digital assets in the account. Conventionally the accounts continue to be accessible using the same credentials as before and may eventually be deactivated due to long periods of non use or the expiration of one or more payment instruments among other such actions. The assets can have monetary value such as items having significant intellectual property and or emotional value such as photo albums or home movies. It therefore can be desirable to provide a way to more efficiently manage the transfer of assets associated with the account during such events.

In the following description various embodiments will be illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings. References to various embodiments in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one. While specific implementations and other details are discussed it is to be understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may overcome one or more of the foregoing or other deficiencies experienced in conventional approaches for transferring and bequeathing assets such as digital assets accessible over a network. In particular an asset management system is described that enables a principal e.g. owner of an account to designate a plurality of users i.e. recipients that will gain access and ownership of the principal s account that contains the various digital assets of the principal in the event of a transfer of assets e.g. the principal s death if the principal is an individual or the dissolution or acquisition if the principal is a business entity . The account may be a network accessible account that maintains various digital assets of the principal such as multimedia e.g. photos videos music etc. applications virtual machines data and others. In the event of a transfer access to the account can be controlled by a cryptographic secret where each of the designated users has been provided with a distinct share part of the cryptographic secret. A minimum number of shares of the secret are required before access to the principal s account will be granted. The minimum number may be configured by the principal in advance. For example the principal may distribute the shares of the cryptographic secret to five designated users e.g. family members and specify that at least three of the five shares are required before access to the account will be granted by the service provider. In this manner an individual is able to ensure that their online digital assets are transferred according to the individual s wishes while reducing the likelihood that one other person misappropriates the assets in the account. Similarly if the principal is a business entity the online digital assets of the entity may be transferred to another entity in the event of an acquisition or dissolution of the entity.

In various embodiments the asset management system described herein can be implemented by a service provider e.g. cloud computing provider that offers a multitenant computing environment for a plurality of customers that rent or lease the resources of the service provider to maintain their digital assets. As used herein the term digital asset should be broadly construed and includes any resource that can be electronically maintained on behalf of a principal and is accessible over a network. Examples of digital assets include but are not limited to documents images videos music e.g. MP3 files applications virtual resources databases and the like. The service provider can maintain the digital assets for the principal in an account associated with the principal that the principal can access using one or more credentials e.g. username and password .

In various embodiments the principal configures their account e.g. effectively creates an electronic will and testament by designating a number of other users that will be required to gain access to the account in the event of a transfer of assets e.g. death dissolution acquisition etc. . A cryptographic secret is generated to control access to the account in the event of a transfer of assets. The cryptographic secret is divided into a plurality of distinct shares and each share can be distributed to a designated user. For example the cryptographic secret can be implemented using Shamir s secret sharing algorithm or other secret sharing splitting algorithms where a secret is distributed amongst a group of participants each of whom is allocated a share of the secret. The secret can be reconstructed only when a sufficient number of possibly different types of shares are combined together individual shares are of no use on their own. In various embodiments the principal can designate which recipients will receive a share of the secret and can also specify the minimum number of shares that will be required before the account is made accessible to the recipients. In some embodiments the shares are distributed to the designated recipients. In other embodiments the shares of the secret are maintained on the servers of the service provider until the recipient requests their particular share of the secret. The shares may also be encrypted using a private key owned by each recipient such that only the designated recipient can access their respective share of the secret.

In various embodiments when a transfer event is determined the service provider may activate the shares of the secret and require that the minimum number of shares be received from the designated recipients before granting access to the principal s account. For example if the service provider determines that the principal is an individual that is recently deceased e.g. by examining legal documents etc. the service provider may consider this a transfer event. Similarly if the service provider obtains sufficient legal documentation that the principal is an entity that is recently dissolved or acquired by another entity the service provider may treat this as a transfer event. During a transfer event the service provider my wait to receive the minimum number of shares of the cryptographic secret before granting access to the principal s account.

In various embodiments access to the account is controlled using a cryptographic secret that is divided into a plurality of shares or parts. When the principal configures the instructions for the account the principal may specify the number of the shares that the secret should divided up into and may also specify the minimum number of shares that will be required before access to the account is granted in the event of an asset transfer. In some embodiments the principal might not provide the instructions through the system but might instead specify instructions or intent through an external document or source such as a will or transfer agreement. In such a case a party such as an executor or related party might provide the instructions to the system. These instructions might require specific documentation in at least some embodiments such as a copy of the will or transfer agreement information about the intended recipients etc.

Once the instructions have been received from the principal or another appropriate party a cryptographic secret can be generated. As mentioned above the cryptographic secret is divided into a number of shares specified by the principal such as shares . In some embodiments the cryptographic secret is generated according to Shamir s secret sharing algorithm. The Shamir s secret sharing algorithm is well known in the art and involves a number of shares of the secret being distributed amongst a group of participants each of whom is allocated a share of the secret. Access to the account is only granted when a sufficient number i.e. minimum number specified by the principal of possibly different types of shares are combined together. In other embodiments other forms of secret sharing or secret splitting algorithms can be utilized within the scope of the present disclosure.

In one embodiment once the cryptographic secret has been generated the shares of the cryptographic secret are distributed to a plurality of recipients designated by the principal of the account . Each share may be encrypted and or digitally signed prior to distributing the share to the recipient. For example the share may be encrypted using a private key of the recipient of the device such that no other party can obtain access to the share of the secret without the private key. Once the encrypted share has been distributed to the recipient the share and the private key may be deleted by the service provider to prevent a potential compromise of the encryption key and or share.

In another embodiment the shares of the cryptographic secret can be maintained by the service provider on behalf of the designated recipients . As before the shares may be encrypted using private keys of the respective recipients. The shares may be stored in a secure database or secure storage server maintained by the service provider such as within a resource center of a service provider as will be described in further detail later in this disclosure.

In some embodiments once the shares have been distributed to the designated recipients the principal may choose to revoke one or more of the shares. For example the principal may choose to revoke the share of the secret distributed to the recipient . In various embodiments a share may be revoked without having to re issue a new secret and without affecting the other shares of the secret. Therefore the principal may revoke share without affecting the validity of shares and .

In some embodiments once the shares have been distributed to the designated recipients the principal may choose to add new shares to the secret and new recipients that should receive those shares. For example if the principal is an individual that gives birth to a child the principal may choose to add the child to the list of recipients that have a share of the secret. The adding of new shares may be implemented without disrupting the remaining shares and without having to modify and or re distribute the remaining shares.

Once the transfer event is determined by the service provider the shares of the secret may be activated and the one or more of the recipients may submit a request to obtain access to the account of the principal. If a verification component e.g. hardware software or combination thereof determines the minimum number of shares of the secret have been received the service provider may grant the requesting users access to the account . For example as shown in the illustration the designated recipients and may provide their respective shares and and request access to the account . If the principal had configured the account such that the minimum number of required shares is two of the three total shares the service provider may grant access to the account even in the event if the remaining recipient has not provided their share. Although the illustrations shown in show three recipients it will be evident to one of ordinary skill in the art that any number of shares and recipients may be utilized within the scope of the various embodiments described herein. For example the principal may configure the account with a cryptographic secret divided into 10 shares where only 3 of the 10 shares are required to gain access to the account. Similarly any other permutations of total number of shares and the minimum number of shares can easily be utilized. Furthermore in some embodiments the principal may specify that each and every share of the secret e.g. minimum number is 10 out of 10 total shares is required before access is granted. In some embodiments a recipient might be given more than one share such that fewer other recipients need to provide a share in order for that recipient to gain access. In the case of a will for example an executor might receive one or more of the shares such that the executor must provide at least one share in order for any of the other recipients to gain access. In other embodiments the executor might have a separate secret that must also be provided in order for a recipient to gain access. Other approaches to controlling access by specific parties can be utilized as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

In some embodiments once the service provider receives a request to access the account the service provider may start a timeout period during which the service provider attempts to contact the principal of the account . This action may be taken in order to validate the transfer event and to prevent any malicious users from gaining access to the account. For example the service provider may generate an email message to the email address of the principal and determine whether the principal has responded with a response or whether there was a bounce back message or the like. In other embodiments the service provider may attempt a financial transaction such as a deposit or withdrawal of a monetary amount with an financial account e.g. bank account credit card etc. of the principal. Any failures of such financial transactions may be treated as evidence that the principal is deceased or is no longer in existence. If the service provider does not receive any response during the timeout period the service provider may proceed with the verification and grant access to the account if the minimum number of shares is received.

In various embodiments the environment may include various types of assets and resources that can be utilized by multiple users for a variety of different purposes. In at least some embodiments all or a portion of a given resource or set of resources might be allocated to a particular customer or allocated for a particular task for at least a determined period of time. The sharing of these resources from a multi tenant virtualized computing environment is often referred to as resource sharing Web services or cloud computing among other such terms and depending upon the specific environment and or implementation. In this example the multi tenant virtualized computing environment includes a plurality of resources of one or more types. These types can include for example application servers operable to process instructions provided by a user or database servers operable to process data stored in one or more data stores in response to a user request. As known for such purposes the customer can also reserve at least a portion of the data storage in a given data store. Methods for enabling a customer to reserve various resources and resource instances are well known in the art such that detailed description of the entire process and explanation of all possible components will not be discussed in detail herein.

In at least some embodiments a user wanting to utilize at least a portion of the resources can submit a request that is received to an interface layer of the multi tenant virtualized computing environment . The interface layer can include application programming interfaces APIs or other exposed interfaces enabling a user to submit requests to the multi tenant virtualized computing environment. The interface layer in this example can also include other components as well such as at least one Web server routing components load balancers and the like. When a request to provision a resource is received to the interface layer for example information for the request can be directed to a resource manager or other such system service or component configured to manage user accounts and information resource provisioning and usage and other such aspects. A resource manager receiving the request can perform tasks such as to authenticate an identity of the user submitting the request as well as to determine whether that user has an existing account or is associated with a customer having an existing account with the resource provider where the account data may be stored in at least one data store in the environment. A user can provide any of various types of credentials in order to authenticate an identity of the user to the provider. These credentials can include for example a username and password pair biometric data a digital signature or other such information. The provider can validate this information against information stored for the user. If the user has an account with the appropriate permissions status etc. the resource manager can determine whether there are adequate resources available to suit the user s request and if so can provision the resources or otherwise grant access to the corresponding portion of those resources for use by the user for an amount specified by the request. This amount can include for example capacity to process a single request or perform a single task a specified period of time or a recurring renewable period among other such values. If the user is not associated with a valid account with the provider an associated account does not enable access to the type of resources specified in the request or another such reason is preventing the user from obtaining access to such resources a communication can be sent to the user or associated customer to enable the user to create or modify an account or change the resources specified in the request among other such options.

Once the user and or request is authenticated the account verified and the resources allocated the user can utilize the allocated resource s for the specified capacity amount of data transfer period of time or other such metric. In at least some embodiments a user might provide a session token or other such credentials with subsequent requests in order to enable those requests to be processed on that user session. The user can receive a resource identifier specific address or other such information that can enable the client device to communicate with an allocated resource without having to communicate with the resource manager at least until such time as a relevant aspect of the user account changes the user is no longer granted access to the resource or another such aspect changes.

The resource manager or another such system or service in this example can also function as a virtual layer of hardware and software components that handles control functions in addition to management actions as may include provisioning scaling replication etc. The resource manager can utilize dedicated APIs in the interface layer where each API can be provided to receive requests for at least one specific action to be performed with respect to the data environment such as to provision scale clone or hibernate an instance. Upon receiving a request to one of the APIs a Web services portion of the interface layer can parse or otherwise analyze the request to determine the steps or actions needed to act on or process the call. For example a Web service call might be received that includes a request to create a data repository.

An interface layer in at least one embodiment includes a scalable set of customer facing servers that can provide the various APIs and return the appropriate responses based on the API specifications. The interface layer also can include at least one API service layer that in one embodiment consists of stateless replicated servers which process the externally facing customer APIs. The interface layer can be responsible for Web service front end features such as authenticating customers based on credentials authorizing the customer throttling customer requests to the API servers validating user input and marshalling or unmarshalling requests and responses. The API layer also can be responsible for reading and writing database configuration data to from the administration data store in response to the API calls. In many embodiments the Web services layer and or API service layer will be the only externally visible component or the only component that is visible to and accessible by customers of the control service. The servers of the Web services layer can be stateless and scaled horizontally as known in the art. API servers as well as the persistent data store can be spread across multiple data centers in a region for example such that the servers are resilient to single data center failures.

In the illustrated example the resource center of the service provider may include one or more racks of host computing devices wherein each host computing device on a particular rack is connected to a single top of rack TOR switch . These TOR switches can be further connected to one or more other switches which enable the host computing devices to connect to the network. As used throughout this disclosure a network can be any wired or wireless network of devices that are capable of communicating with each other including but not limited to the Internet or other Wide Area Networks WANs cellular networks Local Area Networks LANs Storage Area Networks SANs Intranets Extranets and the like. The resource centers can include any physical or logical grouping of resources such as a data center a server farm content delivery network CDN point of presence POP and the like.

In accordance with an embodiment each host computing device can host one or more virtual machine instances that have been provisioned for the customers of the service provider to execute the various applications and services on behalf of those customers. Each virtual machine can be provisioned with its own operating system OS including a kernel drivers process management and the like. The host computing devices may also store other digital assets of the user as previously described including but not limited to multimedia documents and data of the principal of the account.

In operation the service provider maintains an account for a principal. The account contains one or more digital assets of the user. The digital assets may be accessible by the user over a network connection such as over the Internet. In operation a cryptographic secret is generated. The cryptographic secret is divided into a plurality of distinct shares. In some embodiments the principal of the account may specify how many total shares the secret should be divided into. In other embodiments the total number of shares is determined by the service provider.

In operation the principal of the account specifies the minimum number of shares which will be required to obtain access to the account. This minimum number of shares may the same as or less than the total number of shares of the secret. For example if the secret is divided into a total of 10 shares the principal may specify that a minimum of 3 shares is required before granting access to the account and its resources.

Once the secret is divided each share is distributed to a designated recipient as specified by the principal of the account. For example if the principal is a person he or she may select several family members e.g. parent sibling child etc. . In some embodiments the shares are encrypted with a private key of the recipient prior to being distributed to the recipient. In other embodiments the shares are stored by the service provider on behalf of the recipient.

In operation the service provider receives one or more shares of the secret from the recipients. The shares may be received as part of a request submitted by the recipients to access the account of the principal or they may be received by the service provider in some other manner. In operation the service provider determines whether the minimum number of shares have been received from the designated recipients. The minimum number of shares can be specified by the principal at the time of setting up the account as previously described. In operation if the service provider verifies that the required minimum number of shares has been received it can grant access to the account of the principal and the digital assets stored therein.

As discussed different approaches can be implemented in various environments in accordance with the described embodiments. For example illustrates an example of an environment for implementing aspects in accordance with various embodiments. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The system includes an electronic client device which can include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network and convey information back to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device and handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log or session data . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information can then be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

Various embodiments discussed or suggested herein can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

