---

title: Single sign-on processing for associated mobile applications
abstract: Systems, methods and computer-readable media are disclosed for performing single sign-on processing between associated mobile applications. The single sign-on processing may include processing to generate an interaction session between a user and a back-end server associated with a mobile application based at least in part on one or more existing interaction sessions between the user and one or more back-end servers associated with one or more other mobile applications. In order to establish an interaction session with an associated back-end server, a mobile application may leverage existing interaction sessions that have already been established in connection with the launching of other associated mobile applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641498&OS=09641498&RS=09641498
owner: FISERV, INC.
number: 09641498
owner_city: Brookfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130307
---
In our increasingly mobile centric world a vast number of mobile applications have been developed for supporting a variety of different types of functionality. For example even though users continue to use traditional fat client and web based client applications to manage financial accounts initiate and conduct financial transactions or the like the use of mobile applications capable of supporting such functionality has become increasingly common. Typically mobile applications that provide access to secure information e.g. financial account information require a user to enter authentication credentials based on which a back end server storing the secure information can authenticate the user before information can be exchanged between the mobile application and the back end server or back end server transaction processing can be performed on behalf of the user. Generally users are required to supply authentication credentials for each mobile application that is launched and different mobile applications may be associated with different back end servers that may require different sets of authentication credentials for authenticating the same user.

Embodiments of the disclosure relate to among other things systems methods computer readable media techniques and methodologies for performing single sign on processing and enabling information exchange and information sharing between different client applications. In accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure single sign on processing may include processing to generate an interaction session between a user and a back end server associated with a mobile application based at least in part on one or more existing interaction sessions between the user and one or more back end servers associated with one or more other mobile applications. In order to establish an interaction session with an associated back end server a mobile application may leverage existing interaction sessions that have already been established in connection with the launching of other associated mobile applications. As such embodiments of the disclosure provide for integration of multiple mobile applications and elimination of the need for multiple user authentications.

It should be appreciated that while illustrative embodiments of the disclosure may be described herein in the context of mobile applications and mobile computing environments the disclosure is not limited to mobile applications and may be extended to any suitable client application including fat client applications that perform the bulk of data processing operations with minimal reliance on server s thin client applications such as traditional web based client applications that rely heavily on server s for execution of data processing operations and or hybrid client applications that include aspects of both fat client computing models and thin client computing models.

In one or more illustrative embodiments a user may launch a first mobile application executable on a mobile device and within a mobile computing environment. The first mobile application may prompt the user for authentication credentials based on which a back end server associated with the first mobile application may authenticate the user. The authentication credentials may include any suitable information based on which the back end server may unambiguously identify and authenticate the user such as for example a back end specific user id and associated password. Although various embodiments of the disclosure may be described in the context of a mobile application associated with a single back end server it should be appreciated that a mobile application may be associated with multiple back end servers with one or more such back end servers potentially utilizing different sets of authentication credentials for authenticating the user. Further the term back end server is intended to encompass a back end system that may include various other software hardware firmware and or networking components in addition to the back end server.

An application linking server may be provided to coordinate the authentication processing by receiving the authentication credentials from the first mobile application generating a sign in request that may be appropriately formatted in accordance with formatting requirements of the back end server and transmitting the sign in request to the back end server for authentication of the user. In certain embodiments the application linking server may receive an identifier associated with the back end server from the first mobile application. The application linking server may further receive from the first mobile application information identifying a network location of the back end server and or information identifying appropriate protocol s for interacting with the back end server or in the alternative the application linking server may access at least a portion of such information from one or more datastores.

Upon authentication of the user the back end server may establish an interaction session associated with the first mobile application and or the user. The interaction session may enable interaction between the first mobile application and the back end server on behalf of the user. The back end server may provide a session identifier e.g. a session token indicative of the established interaction session to the application linking server. The application linking server may then transmit the back end server session identifier as well as a session identifier associated with interaction with the application linking server to the first mobile application. As will be described in greater detail hereinafter the interaction session established with the back end server associated with the first mobile application may be utilized by other mobile applications if such applications are also associated with the same back end server. That is as used herein the term interaction session may refer to a communication session associated with a particular user that enables communication potentially responsive to user input between one or more client applications and one or more associated back end servers. It should be appreciated that a mobile application may be associated with more than one back end server in which case a user may need to be authenticated with each such back end server prior to enabling interaction between the mobile application and each associated back end server.

In one or more illustrative embodiments upon authentication of a user and receipt of an associated session identifier the first mobile application described above may receive from the application linking server application association information relating to one or more other mobile applications associated with the first mobile application. The first mobile application may be configured to generate an information presentation based at least in part on the application association information and present the information presentation to the authenticated user via a user interface of the first mobile application. A user may be able to navigate to the user interface that displays the information presentation from various other user interfaces associated with the first mobile application. In certain embodiments the user interface for presenting the information presentation may be dynamically generated in response to user navigation to the user interface from within the first mobile application.

The information presentation may present information relating to other mobile application s associated with the first mobile application. The association between the first mobile application and other mobile application s may be based at least in part on one or more association criteria. The association criteria may include any suitable criteria including but not limited to a same issuing entity being associated with each of the mobile applications. The issuing entity may be identifiable from a certificate associated with each of the associated mobile applications or from respective information that is embedded in each of the associated mobile applications during a signing process and that tracks back to the issuing entity.

The information presentation may include various status indicators that identify a respective status associated with each of the various associated mobile applications identified in the information presentation. The status indicators may indicate a download or integration status for each associated mobile application. Information that identifies the respective status indicator according to which each associated mobile application is to be categorized in the information presentation may be supplied by a user device on which the associated mobile applications are executable.

As a non limiting example the information presentation may include a first indicator that identifies those associated mobile applications that have been downloaded to the user device and which are fully integrated and capable of leveraging single sign on processing. The information presentation may further include a second indicator that identifies those associated mobile applications that have not yet been downloaded to the user device but which are available for download from one or more application source servers. In certain computing environments e.g. operating system environments a third indicator may be provided that identifies any associated mobile applications that have been downloaded to the mobile device but which have not yet been fully integrated so as to be able to leverage single sign on processing. Processing for integrating an associated mobile application that has been downloaded to a mobile device will be described in more detail hereinafter.

In one or more illustrative embodiments the first application may receive input indicative of a user selection of a second fully integrated mobile application from the information presentation presented via a user interface associated with the first mobile application. For ease of explanation the processing flow described hereinafter will be described in the context of the first mobile application being associated with a first back end server and the second mobile application being associated with a second back end server. However it should be appreciated that the first mobile application and or the second mobile application may each be associated with a respective set of one or more back end servers of which one or more may represent a same back end server.

Upon receipt of an indication of user interaction with the information presentation corresponding to a launching of the second application a determination may be made as to whether a non expired interaction session on behalf of the user already exists with the second back end server. If a current non expired interaction session exists the second mobile application may interact with the second back end server based at least in part on the existing interaction session. Such an interaction session may have already been established as a result of authentication processing previously performed with respect to the second mobile application or another mobile application that is also associated with the second back end server or may have been established as a result of single sign on processing previously performed with respect to the second mobile application or another mobile application associated with the second back end server.

If a current non expired interaction session with the second back end server does not exist single sign on processing may be performed to establish an interaction session with the second back end server. As part of the single sign on processing the first mobile application may generate and transmit to the application linking server a request for a second back end server session identifier indicative of establishment of an interaction session with the second back end server. The request for the second back end server session identifier may include various information including but not limited to an identifier associated with a first back end server with which the first mobile application is associated a first back end server session identifier associated with an existing interaction session with the first back end server an identifier associated with the second back end server and so forth. The request for the second back end server session identifier may be associated with or may further include a session identifier associated with an interaction session with the application linking server.

Upon receipt of the request the application linking server may perform validation processing to ensure that the request is received from a trusted party authorized to submit such requests and to ensure that the request is received from a mobile application associated with a current interaction session with the application linking server. Upon successful completion of any validation processing that may be performed by the application linking server single sign on processing may continue with the application linking server generating a request for identifiers associated with the user. The application linking server may communicate the identifiers request to the first back end server. The request may be a request for all identifiers associated with the user that are known to the first back end server or may be a request for a subset of identifiers e.g. those identifiers that the second back end server is able to use to identify the user .

The first back end server may receive the request and generate and transmit to the application linking server a response that includes the requested identifiers. Upon receipt of the response from the first back end server the application linking server may optionally filter the identifiers included in the response to identify those that are recognizable by the second back end server and generate and transmit to the second back end server a second back end session identifier request. In certain embodiments if more than one identifier received from the first back end server may be used by the second back end server to identify the user the application linking server may utilize one or more prioritization criteria to prioritize the identifiers and may serially communicate the identifiers to the second back end server in accordance with the determined priority until the user is successfully identified by the second back end server and an associated interaction session is established. The one or more prioritization criteria may include for example a likelihood of success in identifying and authenticating the user and establishing an interaction session with the second back end server.

Upon receipt of the second back end session identifier request the second back end server may first verify that the request is received from an entity authorized to present such a request e.g. the application linking server . The second back end server may then utilize one or more of the identifiers included in the request to identify the user and may establish an interaction session and generate and transmit to the application linking server a response that includes a second back end server session identifier associated with the newly established interaction session. Upon receipt of the second back end server session identifier the application linking server may communicate the second back end server session identifier as well as other information such as for example an updated session identifier associated with the interaction session with the application linking server to the first mobile application. The first mobile application may store the second back end server session identifier and the updated session identifier associated with the interaction session with the application linking server in secure storage on the user device such as for example in encrypted data storage.

The first mobile application may then launch the second mobile application with a parameter or other identifier indicating that the second mobile application was launched from a user interface associated with the first mobile application e.g. the user interface displaying the information presentation . As part of the illustrative processing flow currently being described the second mobile application may be configured to determine that it was launched as a result of user interaction with a user interface associated with the first mobile application and may be further configured to determine that a current non expired interaction session exists with the second back end server as indicated by the second back end server session identifier obtained via the processing described earlier. Accordingly the single sign on processing is complete and the user has been successfully identified by the second back end server without requiring the second mobile application to separately obtain authentication credentials from the user.

In one or more illustrative embodiments a mobile application associated with multiple back end servers may leverage the single sign on processing described above to establish a respective interaction session with each such back end server while only requiring the user to provide a single set of authentication credentials. For example a mobile application may be launched and a set of authentication credentials may be received from a user based on which a first back end server associated with the mobile application may authenticate the user and generate an interaction session with the first back end server. Single sign on processing as described above may then be leveraged in order to generate a respective interaction session with each additional back end server with which the mobile application is associated. Identifiers associated with the user may be requested from any back end server with which an interaction session has already been established and in certain embodiments back end servers for which interaction sessions exist may be serially accessed until identifier s are provided based on which a back end server with which an interaction session is sought is capable of identifying the user.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure communication of requests responses messages or any other information between any two devices or systems e.g. the application linking server the back end server s mobile applications s etc. may occur in accordance with any suitable communication protocol methodology or technique including but not limited to as part of a Web service Application Programming Interface API invocation.

One or more illustrative embodiments of the disclosure have been described above. These and other embodiments of the disclosure will be described in more detail hereinafter through reference to accompanying drawings.

The illustrative architecture may include one or more user devices operable by one or more users one or more application linking servers one or more back end servers N one or more back end servers R and one or more application source servers . It should be appreciated that while one or more components of the illustrative architecture may be described in the singular a plural number of any such component s potentially forming part of a system that includes additional hardware software firmware and or networking components is also encompassed by this disclosure.

The user device s may include any suitable computing device including but not limited to any suitable mobile computing device such as for example a smartphone device a tablet device or the like. The user device s may be associated with any suitable operating system computing environment. While various embodiments of the disclosure may be described in the context of mobile computing devices and mobile applications it should be appreciated that the disclosure extends to any suitable computing device e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a workstation etc. capable of executing any suitable client application within any suitable computing environment.

In one or more embodiments of the disclosure the user device s may be associated with one or more mobile operating system environments including but not limited to an iOS operating system environment an Android operating system environment a Windows Mobile operating system environment or any other suitable mobile operating system environment or platform. Any of a variety of mobile applications may be executable on the user device s . In one or more embodiments of the disclosure each of the user device s may be configured to download and install various mobile applications forming part of a set of associated applications. Each application in the set of associated mobile applications may be associated with each other mobile application in the set based at least in part on one or more association criteria. The one or more association criteria may include any suitable criteria including but not limited to a same issuing or signing entity being associated with each mobile application in the set of associated applications.

As described in more detail hereinafter each associated mobile application may be configured to be downloaded integrated and or launched from a user interface associated with another associated mobile application. Further each associated mobile application may be configured to be launched from a mobile device home screen or other user interface associated with an operating system environment of the mobile device that is independent of other associated mobile applications. In certain embodiments and as will be described in more detail hereinafter an associated mobile application that is launched from a mobile device home screen may not be able to leverage single sign on processing and may prompt a user for authentication credentials upon launch from the device home screen regardless of whether active interaction session s exist with associated back end servers. In other embodiments while not being able to directly leverage single sign on processing an associated mobile application launched from the device home screen may not prompt the user for authentication credentials if active interaction session s already exist for associated back end server s .

The user device s may be communicatively coupled with the back end server s N the back end server s R the application linking server and or the application source server via one or more networks . The network s may include but are not limited to any one or a combination of different types of suitable communications networks such as cable networks wireless networks cellular networks or any other private e.g. frame relay networks and or public networks e.g. the Internet including networks of any scope of coverage such as metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs and so forth. Further the network s may include any suitable data transmission medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted wire pair optical fiber hybrid fiber coaxial HFC microwave terrestrial transceivers radio frequency communications satellite communications or combinations thereof.

The application source server may store any of variety of mobile applications including any of the mobile applications in the set of associated mobile applications. The application source server may support functionality for transmitting mobile applications to the user device s via one or more of the network s responsive to a request received from the user device s to download the mobile applications. The application source server may be hosted by any suitable entity including but not limited to an operating system vendor a mobile device vendor and so forth.

The application linking server may support a variety of functionality including authentication processing and single sign on processing in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. In addition the application linking server may store or may be configured to access one or more datastore s not shown storing a variety of types of information including but not limited to session identifier s associated with interaction session s with the application linking server back end server session identifier s associated with interaction session s with various back end server s respective identifiers associated with back end servers application association information and so forth. Each back end server session identifier may be stored in association with a user and or mobile application identifier in order to establish session state indicative of the interaction session between the user or mobile application and the associated back end server. The application linking server may further optionally store or access from one or more datastore s respective data associated with specific back end servers information associated with network locations of back end servers and or information associated with communication protocols for use in interacting with back end servers.

As will be described in more detail hereinafter the application association information may include a respective identifier associated with each associated mobile application respective back end server identification information identifying a respective set of one or more back end servers associated with each associated mobile application respective metadata associated with each associated mobile application and so forth. The respective metadata associated with each mobile application in the set of associated mobile applications may include but is not limited to a title associated with the mobile application a Uniform Resource Locator URL that identifies a location from which an icon associated with the mobile application may be retrieved one or more internal identifiers associated with the mobile application a URL that identifies a location e.g. a network address of an application source server from which the mobile application may be downloaded and so forth. As will be described in more detail hereinafter the application association information may be utilized in conjunction with information locally stored on the user device e.g. status indicator information to generate an information presentation relating to the set of associated mobile applications.

The illustrative architecture may further include one or more back end servers N that may be co located with the application linking server . The back end server s N may be communicatively coupled with the application linking server via one or more local area networks LANs or other suitable network s . As used herein the term co located may refer to any two or more components that are hosted by a same entity physically located at a same site configured to communicate with each other over a local area network LAN or the like. In addition the back end server s N may be further configured to communicate with any other illustrative components of the illustrative architecture via one or more of the network s e.g. the application linking server the application source server one or more of the back end server s R etc. .

The illustrative architecture may further include one or more back end servers R that may be communicatively coupled with the application linking server via one or more networks which may include any one or more of the types of networks described through reference to the network s . In certain embodiments the back end server s R may be located remotely from the application linking server . The back end server s R may further be configured to communicate with the user device s via one or more of the network s such as for example for information exchange with one or more of the mobile applications in the set of mobile associated applications. In addition the back end server s R may be further configured to communicate with any other illustrative components of the illustrative architecture via one or more of the network s e.g. the application linking server the application source server one or more of the back end server s N etc. .

While the back end server s N and the back end server s R have been separately depicted in to illustrate potential differences in the manner in which they may be communicatively coupled to the application linking server the back end server s N and the back end server s R will be generically referred to hereinafter as back end server s . Each back end server may host at least a portion of the functionality associated with one or more mobile applications including one or more applications in the set of associated mobile applications. Each back end server may further store data accessed by one or more of the associated mobile applications. Each associated mobile application may be associated with and may access one or more back end servers . In certain embodiments a user may be associated with a corresponding user account at each back end server that is associated with each mobile application in the set of associated mobile applications that has been downloaded to a user device associated with the user . Each user account may be associated with a corresponding set of user authentication credentials based on which a corresponding back end server may authenticate the user as well as other user identifiers and or user related information. In certain embodiments each back end server may utilize a different set of user authentication credentials to authenticate a user. Accordingly a single common identifier or set of authentication credentials may not be available for authenticating a user with each back end server .

It should be appreciated that individual instances of the application source server s the application linking server s or the back end server s N R may each be hosted or controlled by one or more entities including potentially one or more same entities. Further in those scenarios in which any of the components of the illustrative architecture depicted in are hosted by a same entity the components may be provided at different locations.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the illustrative networked architecture depicted in is provided by way of example only. Numerous other operating environments system architectures and device configurations are within the scope of this disclosure. Various embodiments of the disclosure may include fewer or greater numbers of components and or devices than those depicted in and may incorporate some or all of the functionality described with respect to the illustrative architecture depicted in or additional functionality.

As depicted in an illustrative user device in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure may include one or more memory devices generically referred to herein as memory and one or more processors processor s configured to execute computer executable instructions that may be stored in the memory . As previously noted while embodiments of the disclosure may be described in the context of a user device that is a mobile computing device such as a smartphone device a tablet device or the like the user device may be any suitable computing device including but not limited to a server computing device a desktop computing device a laptop computing device a mobile computing device a mainframe computing device and so forth.

The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting digital data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may be configured to execute the computer executable instructions to cause or facilitate the performance of various operations. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a microcontroller a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC and so forth.

The memory may store computer executable instructions that are loadable and executable by the processor s as well as data manipulated and or generated by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. The memory may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory and so forth. In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth.

The user device may further include additional data storage such as removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. Data storage may provide storage of computer executable instructions and or other data. The data storage may include storage that is internal and or external to the user device . The memory and or the data storage removable and or non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media CRSM .

The memory may store data computer executable instructions applications and or various program modules including for example one or more operating systems one or more associated mobile applications S one or more application linking server ALS session identifiers associated with one or more interaction sessions with the application linking server and or one or more back end server session identifiers associated with one or more interaction sessions with one or more back end servers . The terms session identifier and session token may be used interchangeably throughout this disclosure and the accompanying drawings.

The operating system O S may provide an interface between other application software executing on the user device e.g. the mobile applications S and hardware resources of the user device . More specifically the O S may include a set of computer executable instructions for managing hardware resources of the user device and for providing common services to other applications e.g. managing memory allocation among various applications . The O S may include any operating system now known or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to any mobile operating system any desktop or laptop operating system any mainframe or server operating system or any other proprietary or freely available operating system.

The memory may further include one or more associated mobile applications S loaded therein. At times herein any particular mobile application of the one or more mobile applications S may be referred to generically as mobile application or associated mobile application . Each of the mobile applications S may form part of a set of associated mobile applications that are associated based at least in part on one or more association criteria. Each of the mobile applications S may include one or more program modules comprising computer executable instructions that responsive to execution by the processor s cause various aspects of authentication processing and single sign on processing to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure.

Each of the mobile applications S may further include one or more program modules comprising computer executable instructions that responsive to execution by the processor s cause various automated processing to be performed including processing that causes an information presentation to be generated and presented to a user of the user device based at least in part on application association information associated with the set of associated mobile applications S . Each of the associated mobile applications S may include a respective user interface for presenting the information presentation. In various embodiments of the disclosure the information presentation may be dynamically generated or regenerated responsive to navigation by the user to a particular user interface from within a mobile application. Although not depicted in the application association information may be stored in association with one or more of the mobile applications S . As will be described in more detail hereinafter a mobile application may receive the application association information as part of authentication processing coordinated by the application linking server according to which a back end server associated with the mobile application authenticates a user of the user device based on authentication credentials received from the user . Alternatively a mobile application may receive the application association information as part of single sign on processing in which the mobile application is launched from an information presentation presented via a user interface associated with another mobile application .

As previously noted one or more ALS session identifiers associated with one or more interaction sessions with the application linking server and or one or more back end server session identifiers associated with one or more interaction sessions with one or more back end servers may also be stored in the memory . Further as depicted in the one or more ALS session identifiers and or the one or more back end server session identifiers may be stored in the data storage such as for example in an encrypted portion of the data storage .

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure each time a mobile application e.g. of the set of one or more associated mobile applications S is launched from a user interface of the user device that is independent of any of the other mobile applications e.g. a home screen of the user device the mobile application may prompt the user for one or more sets of authentication credentials based on which authentication processing may be performed to authenticate the user with one or more associated back end servers . In certain embodiments in order to maintain a consistent uniform or predictable user experience the mobile application may prompt the user for authentication credentials when launched from the user device home screen regardless of whether one or more active interaction sessions exist with back end server s associated with the mobile application. As part of the authenticating processing performed upon launching of the mobile application from the user device home screen a new interaction session with the application linking server may be established and a new ALS session identifier indicative thereof may be generated. The newly generated ALS session identifier may be received by the launched mobile application from the application linking server and may be stored in the memory and or an encrypted portion of the data storage . In contrast each time a mobile application e.g. of the set of associated mobile applications S is launched from within another mobile application e.g. S that is associated with existing interaction session with the application linking server the associated ALS session identifier may be updated and the existing ALS session identifier may be overwritten with the updated ALS session identifier.

In certain other embodiments if a respective active non expired interaction session exists with each back end server with which the launched mobile application is associated the mobile application may not prompt the user for authentication credentials and may interact with associated back end server s based on the existing interaction session s .

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure an interaction session with a back end server and an associated back end server session identifier indicative thereof may be generated as part of authentication processing performed upon launching of a first mobile application e.g. and based on a set of authentication credentials received from a user . In the above scenario the first mobile application that was launched may receive the back end server session identifier and store the identifier in the memory and or the data storage . Alternatively upon launching of a second mobile application e.g. S based on user interaction with a user interface that presents the information presentation and which is associated with the first mobile application e.g. an interaction session with a back end server associated with the second mobile application S may be established and an associated back end server session identifier indicative thereof may be generated as part of single sign on processing that leverages one or more interaction sessions that have already been established with one or more other back end servers . In this scenario the generated back end server session identifier may be transmitted from the back end server associated with the second mobile application S via the application linking server to the first mobile application . The first mobile application may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution by the processor s cause the received back end server session identifier to be stored in the memory and or an encrypted portion of the data storage .

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure back end server session identifier s stored in the memory and or the data storage may be utilized by any of the set of associated mobile applications S that are associated with back end server s to which the back end server session identifier s correspond. In certain embodiments the back end server session identifier s and or the ALS session identifier s may be stored in an encrypted portion of the data storage that is accessible by only those mobile applications in the set of associated mobile applications S . In various embodiments one or more identifiers may be associated with each mobile application in the set of associated mobile applications S identifying each such mobile application as an associated mobile application that is permitted to access the encrypted portion of the data storage storing the session identifier s and the session identifier s . As a non limiting example each mobile application in the set of associated mobile applications may be associated with an identifier e.g. a certificate embedded information etc. that indicates that each mobile application is associated with a same issuing entity.

Although not depicted in it should be appreciated that the memory may store any number of additional applications program modules and or data. For example as previously alluded to application association information received from the application linking server may be stored in the memory . Further status indicator information that is sourced from the user device may also be stored in the memory . The status indicator information may associate each of the mobile applications S with a respective indicator that indicates a status of the mobile application on the user device e.g. downloaded and fully integrated for leveraging single sign on processing downloaded but not fully integrated not downloaded etc. . Further although also not depicted in the data storage may store a variety of additional types of data applications and or program modules. For example the data storage may store the set of associated mobile applications S the application association information the status indicator information and so forth.

The user device may further include one or more I O interfaces that facilitate receipt by the user device of information input via one or more I O devices associated with the user device as well as the outputting of information from the user device to the one or more I O devices for presentation to a user . The I O devices may include for example one or more user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the user device including but not limited to a display a keypad a keyboard a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a remote control device a speaker a microphone and so forth. As a non limiting example the one or more I O interfaces may facilitate interaction between a user and the user device to facilitate the launching of any of the mobile applications S and associated authentication processing and or single sign on processing.

The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting digital data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may be configured to execute the computer executable instructions to cause or facilitate the performance of various operations. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a microcontroller a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC and so forth.

The memory may store computer executable instructions that are loadable and executable by the processor s as well as data manipulated and or generated by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. The memory may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory and so forth. In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth.

The application linking server may further include additional data storage such as removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. Data storage may provide storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The data storage may include storage that is internal and or external to the application linking server . The memory and or the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM .

The memory may store data computer executable instructions applications and or various program modules including for example one or more operating systems one or more database management systems DBMS one or more program modules such as a single sign on processing module and a user authentication processing module one or more ALS session identifiers associated with one or more interaction sessions with the application linking server one or more back end server session identifiers associated with one or more interaction sessions with one or more back end servers and or application association information .

The operating system O S may provide an interface between other applications and or program modules executable by the application linking server e.g. the single sign on processing module the user authentication processing module etc. and hardware resources of the server . More specifically the O S may include a set of computer executable instructions for managing hardware resources of the server and for providing common services to other applications and or program modules e.g. managing memory allocation among various applications and or program modules . The O S may include any operating system now known or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to any desktop or laptop operating system any mobile operating system any mainframe operating system or any other proprietary or freely available operating system.

The single sign on processing module may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution by the processor s cause various aspects of single sign on processing to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. Further the user authentication processing module may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution by the processor s cause various aspects of user authentication processing to be performed.

The ALS session identifier s may be indicative of one or more interaction sessions with the application linking server . Each ALS session identifier may be associated with an interaction session between the application linking server and a particular user and one or more of the associated applications S executing on a particular user device associated with the user . Accordingly the ALS session identifier s may include the ALS session identifier s stored on the illustrative user device depicted in as well as additional ALS session identifiers associated with interaction sessions between the application linking server and other users as well as associated mobile applications executing on other user devices associated with the other users.

The back end server session identifier s may be associated with interaction sessions between one or more users and one or more back end servers . Each back end server session identifier may be associated with an interaction session between a particular back end server and a particular user as well as one or more of the associated applications S executing on a particular user device associated with the user . Accordingly the back end server session identifier s may include in addition to the back end server session identifier s stored by the illustrative user device depicted in additional back end server session identifiers associated with interaction sessions between back end servers and other users as well as associated mobile applications executing on other user devices associated with the other users.

The memory may further include DBMS for accessing retrieving storing and or manipulating data stored in one or more datastores provided externally to the application linking server and or one or more internal datastores provided for example as part of the data storage . The datastore s and or data storage may store any of the data program modules and so forth at least a subset of which may be managed by DBMS depicted as being stored in the memory and or additional information such as identifiers associated with back end servers network locations and communication protocols associated with back end servers and so forth. The DBMS may use any of a variety of database models e.g. relational model object model etc. and may support any of a variety of query languages.

Although not depicted in it should be appreciated that the memory and or the data storage may store any number of additional applications program modules and or data. For example the application association information may additionally be stored in the data storage .

The application linking server may further include one or more I O interfaces that facilitate receipt by the application linking server of information input via one or more I O devices associated with the application linking server as well as the outputting of information from the application linking server to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include but are not limited to a display a keypad a keyboard a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a remote control device a speaker a microphone and so forth.

The application linking server may further include one or more network interfaces that may facilitate communication between the application linking server and other components of the networked architecture via one or more of the network s network s or LAN s . For example the network interface s may facilitate interaction between the application linking server and any of the associated mobile applications S any of the back end servers and so forth.

While not depicted in the back end servers and or the application source server may include one or more of the hardware and software components illustratively depicted in connection with the user device s and or the application linking server as well as potentially alternate or additional hardware and software components.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any of the components of the architecture may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted as forming part of any of the components of the architecture are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. While various program modules have been depicted and described with respect to various illustrative components of the architecture it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software firmware and or hardware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Moreover while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules.

At block a mobile application which may be for example any mobile application of the set of associated mobile applications S may receive an indication of launching of the mobile application. The indication may be received responsive to user input supplied to a mobile device to which the mobile application has been downloaded.

At block a determination may be made as to whether the mobile application was launched from another mobile application within the set of associated mobile applications S . More specifically a determination may be made at block as to whether the mobile application was launched from a user interface that is associated with another mobile application of the set of associated mobile applications S and which presents an information presentation relating to the set of associated mobile applications S . As a non limiting example the determination at block may be made based at least in part on a parameter associated with the launching of the mobile application that indicates whether the mobile application was launched from within another associated mobile application. If it is determined that the mobile application was launched from within another associated mobile application the illustrative processing flow may proceed to block of where a determination may be made as to whether the launched mobile application is fully integrated for leveraging single sign on processing. As will be described in more detail through reference to the illustrative processing flow of and the illustrative processing flow of either authentication processing to fully integrate the launched mobile application or single sign on processing may be performed depending on the determination that is made at block of . In certain operating system environments upon determining that the mobile application was launched from within another mobile application it may be assumed that the launched mobile application is fully integrated for leveraging single sign on processing.

Referring again to the determination at block if it is determined that the mobile application was not launched from within another associated mobile application the processing flow may proceed to block . In certain embodiments if it is determined that the mobile application was not launched from within another associated mobile application it may be assumed that the mobile application was launched from a user interface of a user device that is independent of any of the associated mobile applications S e.g. a home screen of the user device or the like .

At block a determination may be made as to whether active interaction session s exist for each back end server with which the mobile application is associated. If it is determined that a respective active interaction session exists for each associated back end server the processing flow may proceed to block and a user of a mobile device on which the mobile application is executing may be permitted to interact with the associated back end server s via the mobile application based at least in part on the active interaction session s . The determination at block may involve accessing an encrypted portion of the data storage of the user device that is accessible by the set of associated mobile applications S to determine whether a respective back end server session identifier indicative of a respective interaction session with each of the back end servers associated with the mobile application is stored therein.

On the other hand if it is determined at block that an active interaction session does not exist for at least one back end server associated with the mobile application the mobile application may prompt the user to enter authentication credentials at block based on which the user may be authenticated with the associated back end server . For ease of explanation it will be assumed that the mobile application is associated with a single back end server for which no active interaction session exists. However it should be appreciated that if the mobile application is associated with multiple back end servers for which no active interaction sessions exist the user may potentially be prompted for a first set of authentication credentials for authenticating the user with a first associated back end server and upon establishment of an interaction session with the first associated back end server the mobile application may be able to leverage single sign on processing to establish a respective interaction session with each additional associated back end server .

Although the illustrative processing flow of indicates that an affirmative determination at block results in interaction between the mobile application and the associated back end server s based on existing interaction sessions it should be appreciated that in certain embodiments an affirmative determination at block may result in the mobile application prompting the user for one or more sets of authentication credentials for authenticating the user with respect to associated back end server s . That is if it is determined at block that the mobile application was not launched from within another associated mobile application the user may be prompted for authentication credentials regardless of whether active interaction session s exist with associated back end server s in order to provide a consistent and uniform user experience for the user.

At block the mobile application may generate a sign in request that includes information identifying the back end server with which an interaction session is desired and the authentication credentials received from the user and based on which the back end server may authenticate the user.

At block the sign in request generated by the mobile application may be appropriately formatted in accordance with formatting requirements of the application linking server and may be transmitted from the mobile application to the application linking server in accordance with one or more appropriate communication protocols.

At block the application linking server may generate a back end server sign in request based at least in part on the sign in request received from the mobile application. As a non limiting example the application linking server may include the authentication credentials received in the sign in request from the mobile application in a back end server sign in request that is appropriately formatted according to formatting requirements associated with the back end server . In certain embodiments the network location of the back end server and communication protocol s for interacting with the back end server may be included in the sign in request received from the mobile application. In other embodiments the application linking server may retrieve at least a portion of such information from one or more internal and or external datastores.

At block the application linking server may transmit the back end server sign in request to the appropriate back end server in accordance with the identified communication protocol s and based at least in part on the identified network location of the back end server .

Referring now to at block upon successful authentication of the user by the back end server based at least in part on the authentication credentials included in the back end server sign in request received from the application linking server the back end server may establish an interaction session that enables at least in part interaction between the user and the back end server and may generate a first sign in response that includes an indication of the successful authentication of the user and a back end server session identifier indicative of the established interaction session. The back end server session identifier may have a time to live TTL value associated therewith that indicates a duration that the established interaction session with the back end server will remain active. At block the back end server may transmit the first sign in response to the application linking server . While the remainder of the processing flow assumes successful authentication by the back end server of the user based on the authentication credentials included in the back end sign in request it should be appreciated that in certain embodiments authentication of the user may fail in which case the back end server may generate a response indicating failure of the authentication which may be communicated via the application linking server to the mobile application and potentially presented to the user. Such a response indicating failure of the authentication may not include a back end server session identifier.

At block the application linking server may extract various data from the first sign in response received from the back end server and may store the extracted data in the memory and or in the data storage . The extracted data may include for example the back end server session identifier indicative of the interaction session established with the back end server which may be stored in association with one or more of i an identifier associated with the back end server ii an identifier associated with the user iii or an identifier associated with the mobile application. Storing the back end server session identifier in this manner may allow the application linking server to maintain knowledge of the interaction session established between the user and the back end server via the mobile application.

At block the application linking server may a generate a second sign in response based at least in part on the first sign in response received from the back end server . The second sign in response may include an indication of the successful authentication of the user by the back end server the back end server session identifier indicative of the established interaction session with the back end server an application linking server ALS session identifier associated with an interaction session between the user and the application linking server application association information relating to the set of associated mobile applications S and optional initial data specific to the back end server . As with the back end server session identifier the ALS session identifier may have a TTL value associated therewith that indicates a duration that the interaction session with the application linking server will remain active. As previously noted the application association information may include a respective identifier associated with each mobile application in the set of associated mobile applications S respective back end server identification information identifying a respective set of one or more back end servers associated with each associated mobile application respective metadata associated with each associated mobile application including any of the types of metadata previously described and so forth.

At block the application linking server may transmit the second sign in response to the mobile application. At block the mobile application may extract various data from the second sign in response and may store the extracted data in the memory of the user device on which the mobile application is executing and or in the data storage of the user device . As a non limiting example the mobile application may extract the back end server session identifier and the ALS server session identifier from the second sign in response and may store the identifiers in the memory and or an encrypted portion of the data storage . Other mobile applications in the set of associated mobile applications S may have shared access to the encrypted portion of the data storage thereby allowing other associated applications to leverage the existing interaction sessions associated with the back end server session identifier and the ALS session identifier. The data extracted by the mobile application from the second sign in response may further include the application association information and or other data that is specific to the back end server .

At block the mobile application may generate an information presentation relating to the set of associated mobile applications S based at least in part on the application association information. In one or more embodiments of the disclosure the information presentation may identify each associated mobile application other than the mobile application that is generating the information presentation. The information presentation may further include various status indicators that indicate statuses of various associated mobile applications. For example the information presentation may include a first indicator that identifies those associated mobile applications identified in the information presentation that are downloaded and fully integrated for leveraging single sign on processing. The information presentation may further include a second indicator that identifies those associated mobile applications identified in the information presentation that are not yet downloaded to the user device but which are available for download. In certain operating system environments and or implementations the information presentation may further include a third indicator that identifies those associated mobile applications identified in the information presentation that are downloaded but not yet fully integrated for leveraging single sign on processing. In various embodiments information supplied by for example the O S of the user device may identify an association between each mobile application in the set of associated mobile applications S and a respective download or integration status.

At block the mobile application may present a user interface associated with the mobile application. The user interface may display various content associated with the mobile application and may be a landing page menu page tab bar interface or the like. In certain embodiments the first user interface presented by the mobile application may be a user interface for presenting the information presentation. It should be appreciated that any suitable user interface associated with the mobile application may be presented via the user device to the user upon successful launching of the mobile application. Further although generation of the information presentation is depicted in as occurring within the processing flow after receiving the second sign in response which may comprise application association information it should be appreciated that in various embodiments the information presentation may be dynamically generated according to a just in time mechanism upon navigation of the user to the user interface for presenting the information presentation from another user interface of the mobile application such as an initial user interface presented to the user.

At block the second sign in response may be received by the mobile application from the application linking server . At block the mobile application may extract data from the second sign in response. As previously noted the extracted data may include the back end server session identifier the ALS session identifier application association information and optional data specific to the back end server .

At block the mobile application may store the back end server session identifier indicative of the interaction session established with the back end server the ALS session identifier indicative of the interaction session with the application linking server the application association information and the optional data specific to the back end server in the memory of the user device on which the mobile application is executing.

At block the mobile application may further store the back end server session identifier and or the ALS session identifier in persistent local data storage of the user device e.g. an encrypted portion of the data storage of the user device . Other mobile applications of the set of associated mobile applications S may have shared access to the encrypted portion of the data storage and thus may be able to retrieve the back end server session identifier and the ALS session identifier therefrom and leverage the associated interaction sessions.

At block a first mobile application may present to a user via a user device an information presentation identifying the set of associated mobile applications S . In certain embodiments the information presentation may identify each associated mobile application in the set of associated mobile applications S other than the first mobile application. Among those mobile applications identified in the information presentation may be a second mobile application that has not been downloaded to the user device but which is available for download and which is associated with the first mobile application and each other mobile application identified in the information presentation . The first mobile application may be any mobile application within the set of associated mobile applications S that has received the application association information from the application linking server via authentication processing or single sign on processing performed with respect to the first mobile application and which is therefore capable of generating the information presentation. As previously described the information presentation may include various indicators that indicate a respective status with respect to the user device for each associated mobile application identified in the information presentation. For example an indicator may identify each associated mobile application that has been downloaded and fully integrated so as to be able to leverage single sign on processing as described herein. Further another indicator may identify each associated mobile application that is available for download but has not yet been downloaded. In certain operating system environments a third indicator may also be provided that identifies any associated mobile applications that have been downloaded but have not yet been fully integrated so as to be able to leverage single sign on processing.

At block the first mobile application may receive an indication of user interaction with the information presentation that is indicative of user selection of the second mobile application. Upon receipt of the indication of user interaction at block the illustrative processing flow may proceed to block where the first mobile application may redirect the user to the application source server in order to facilitate download of the second mobile application.

At block the application source server may receive the redirection of the user from the first mobile application identify the second mobile application and generate a user interface for downloading the second mobile application. At block the application source server may transmit the user interface to the user device on which the first mobile application is executing such that the user interface may be rendered by the user device for presentation to the user.

At block the application source server may receive an indication on behalf of the user to transmit the second mobile application to the user device . More specifically the user device may identify user interaction with the user interface that is indicative of a user s desire to download the second mobile application and may communicate the indication to the application source server . At block upon receipt of the indication the application source server may transmit the second mobile application to the user device .

Upon download of the second mobile application to the user device an operating system associated with the user device may install the second mobile application. Upon installation the second mobile application can be launched however depending on the particular operating system environment associated with the second mobile application the second mobile application may not be fully integrated so as to be able to leverage single sign on processing. However if the second mobile application is fully integrated upon installation single sign on processing may be performed to establish interaction session with one or more back end servers with which the second mobile application is associated. Additional processing that may be performed for fully integrating the second mobile application will be described in greater detail through reference to .

At block the first mobile application may regenerate the information presentation relating to the set of associated mobile applications S . More specifically after the second mobile application has been downloaded to the user device and installed in accordance with the illustrative processing flow of a user of the user device may bring the first mobile application to the foreground and proceed to navigate to the user interface that presents the information presentation. Upon navigation to the user interface the application association information may be reprocessed to dynamically regenerate the information presentation. As part of the regeneration of the information presentation the second mobile application may become associated with a new status indicator. In particular prior to download the second mobile application may have been associated with an indicator identifying the second mobile application as available for download but not downloaded to the user device . Subsequent to the download and depending on the operating system environment of the user device in the regenerated information presentation the second mobile application may become associated with an indicator identifying the second mobile application as downloaded and fully integrated or an indicator identifying the second mobile application as downloaded by not yet fully integrated.

At block the regenerated information presentation may be presented to the user via the user interface associated with the first mobile application. At block the first mobile application may receive an indication of user interaction with the information presentation indicative of a user selection of the second mobile application. The user selection may correspond to a user s desire to launch the second mobile application from the information presentation presented by the first mobile application e.g. from within the first mobile application .

At block a determination may be made as to whether the second mobile application is fully integrated so as to be able to leverage single sign on processing. In certain embodiments the determination at block may be made by accessing an encrypted portion of the data storage of the user device to identify whether a status flag or other identifier e.g. a Boolean parameter associated with the second mobile application indicates that that the second mobile application is fully integrated so as to be able to leverage single sign on processing.

If it is determined at block that the second mobile application is fully integrated the illustrative processing flow may proceed to operation of the illustrative processing flow of to initiate single sign on processing. If on the other hand it is determined that the second mobile application is not fully integrated the illustrative processing flow may proceed to block and the second mobile application may be launched without a parameter indicating that the second mobile application was launched from within the first mobile application e.g. from the information presentation presented via a user interface of the first mobile application .

Upon launching the second mobile application may be configured to determine that it was not launched from within another associated mobile application and thus may proceed to prompt the user for authentication credentials for authenticating the user with a back end server with which the second mobile application is associated in order to establish an interaction session between the user and the back end server . The authenticating processing performed as part of the remainder of the processing flow is similar to authentication processing described through reference to the illustrative processing flow of and assumes that an active interaction session does not exist for at least one back end server associated with the second mobile application.

At block the second mobile application may prompt the user to enter authentication credentials based on which the user may be authenticated with the back end server associated with the second mobile application. For ease of explanation it will be assumed that the second mobile application is associated with a single back end server for which no active interaction session exists. However it should be appreciated that if the mobile application is associated with multiple back end servers for which no active interaction sessions exist the user may potentially be prompted for a first set of authentication credentials for authenticating the user with a first associated back end server and upon establishment of an interaction session with the first associated back end server the mobile application may be able to leverage single sign on processing to establish a respective interaction session with each additional associated back end server . In certain other embodiments the user may be prompted for multiple sets of authentication credentials for authenticating the user with respect to multiple associated back end servers if single sign on processing fails. As will be described in more detail hereinafter single single on processing may fail for any number of reasons such as for example due to lack of a common identifier associated with the user and recognizable by multiple back end servers .

At block the second mobile application may generate a sign in request that includes information identifying the back end server with which an interaction session is desired and the authentication credentials received from the user and based on which the back end server may authenticate the user.

At block the sign in request generated by the second mobile application may be appropriately formatted in accordance with formatting requirements of the application linking server and may be transmitted from the second mobile application to the application linking server in accordance with one or more appropriate communication protocols.

At block the application linking server may generate a back end server sign in request based at least in part on the sign in request received from the second mobile application. As a non limiting example the application linking server may include the authentication credentials received in the sign in request from the second mobile application in a back end server sign in request that is appropriately formatted according to formatting requirements associated with the back end server . In certain embodiments the network location of the back end server and communication protocol s for interacting with the back end server may be included in the sign in request received from the second mobile application. In other embodiments the application linking server may retrieve at least a portion of such information from one or more internal and or external datastores.

Referring now to at block the application linking server may transmit the back end server sign in request to the appropriate back end server in accordance with the identified communication protocol s and based at least in part on the identified network location of the back end server .

At block upon successful authentication of the user by the back end server based at least in part on the authentication credentials included in the back end server sign in request received from the application linking server the back end server may establish an interaction session that enables at least in part interaction between the user and the back end server and may generate a first sign in response that includes an indication of the successful authentication of the user and a back end server session identifier indicative of the established interaction session. The back end server session identifier may have a time to live TTL value associated therewith that indicates a duration that the established interaction session with the back end server will remain active. At block the back end server may transmit the first sign in response to the application linking server . While the remainder of the processing flow assumes successful authentication by the back end server of the user based on the authentication credentials included in the back end sign in request it should be appreciated that in certain embodiments authentication of the user may fail in which case the back end server may generate a response indicating failure of the authentication which may be communicated via the application linking server to the mobile application and potentially presented to the user. The response indicating failure of the authentication may not include a back end server session identifier.

At block the application linking server may extract various data from the first sign in response received from the back end server and may store the extracted data in the memory and or in the data storage . The extracted data may include for example the back end server session identifier indicative of the interaction session established with the back end server which may be stored in association with one or more of i an identifier associated with the back end server ii an identifier associated with the user or iii an identifier associated with the second mobile application. More specifically the interaction session between the user of the user device and the application linking server may be extended or updated to further include the back end server session identifier indicative of the interaction session established with the back end server with which the second mobile application is associated in addition to the back end server session identifier associated with the back end server with which the first mobile application is associated. Storing the back end server session identifier received at block in this manner may allow the application linking server to maintain knowledge of the interaction session established between the user and the back end server associated with the second mobile application.

At block the application linking server may a generate a second sign in response based at least in part on the first sign in response received from the back end server . The second sign in response may include an indication of the successful authentication of the user by the back end server with which the second mobile application is associated the back end server session identifier indicative of the established interaction session an updated application linking server ALS session identifier associated with an interaction session between the user and the application linking server application association information relating to the set of associated mobile applications S and optional initial data specific to the back end server with which the second mobile application is associated. The updated ALS session identifier may have an updated TTL value associated therewith. In certain embodiments the updated ALS session identifier may be a newly generated identifier with a corresponding TTL value associated therewith.

At block the application linking server may transmit the second sign in response to the second mobile application. At block the second mobile application may extract various data from the second sign in response and may store the extracted data in the memory of the user device on which the second mobile application is executing and or in the data storage of the user device . As a non limiting example the second mobile application may extract from the second sign in response the back end server session identifier indicative of the interaction session established with the back end server with which the second mobile application is associated and may store the back end server session identifier in the memory and or an encrypted portion of the data storage . Other mobile applications in the set of associated mobile applications S may have shared access to the encrypted portion of the data storage thereby allowing other associated applications to leverage the interaction session associated with the back end server session identifier. Further the second mobile application may store or update e.g. overwrite the ALS session identifier stored in the memory and or the data storage based at least in part on the updated ALS session identifier received from the application linking server . In certain embodiments the updated ALS session identifier may be stored in a portion of memory allocated to the second mobile application without overwriting the previous ALS session identifier stored in the memory . The data extracted by the second mobile application from the second sign in response may further include the application association information and or other data that is specific to the back end server with which the second mobile application is associated. In addition to the extraction and storage of various data included in the second sign in response the status flag or identifier that is stored in the data storage and which identifies the integration status of the second mobile application may be updated to reflect that the second mobile application is now fully integrated so as to be able to leverage single sign on processing. Other mobile applications in the set of associated mobile applications S may have shared access to the encrypted portion of the data storage thereby allowing these applications to display the current integration status of the second mobile application in their own information presentations.

At block the second mobile application may generate an information presentation relating to the set of associated mobile applications S based at least in part on the application association information. In one or more embodiments of the disclosure the information presentation may identify each associated mobile application other than the second mobile application. As described previously the information presentation may further include various indicators that indicate statuses of various associated mobile applications identified in the information presentation. The current mobile application may be excluded from the information presentation. In certain embodiments the information presentation may be generated when the user navigates to a user interface for presenting the information presentation rather than immediately after processing the second sign in response.

At block the second mobile application may be launched and may present a user interface associated with the second mobile application. The user interface may display various content associated with the second mobile application and may be a landing page menu page tab bar interface or the like. In certain other embodiments the first user interface presented by the second mobile application may be a user interface for presenting the information presentation. It should be appreciated that any suitable user interface associated with the mobile application may be presented via the user device to the user upon successful launching of the second mobile application. Further although generation of the information presentation is depicted in as occurring prior to presentation of the initial user interface associated with the second mobile application it should be appreciated that in various embodiments the information presentation may be dynamically generated upon navigation of the user to the user interface for presenting the information presentation from the initial user interface presented to the user.

At this stage in the processing both the first mobile application and the second mobile application are executing on the user device and the user is able to navigate between the applications and within each application e.g. from the user interface presenting the information presentation to one or more other user interfaces of the application . Further both the first mobile application and the second mobile application are configured to access the encrypted portion of the data storage storing the ALS session identifier and the back end server session identifiers associated with the interaction sessions established with the respective back end servers with which the first and second mobile applications are associated. If the user were to navigate to the user interface for presenting the information presentation associated with the first mobile application the information presentation would be dynamically regenerated and the second mobile application would now be associated with an indicator that identifies the second mobile application as downloaded and fully integrated. The first mobile application may identify the second mobile application as downloaded and fully integrated for the purposes of dynamically regenerating the information presentation based at least in part on the updated status flag or identifier associated with the second mobile application and stored in the encrypted portion of the data storage .

At block a mobile application e.g. any of the associated mobile applications in the set of associated mobile applications S may generate a request for initial data not provided in the second sign in response received from the application linking server . The request may be generated for a variety of reasons such as for example because additional data is required by the mobile application beyond that which was provided in the second sign in response received from the application linking server or because the back end server did not provide any initial back end specific data to the application linking server for inclusion in the second sign in response.

At block the mobile application may transmit the generated request to the appropriate back end server . As part of the illustrative processing flow the mobile application may interact with the back end server without the intervention of the application linking server based at least in part on the back end server session identifier received in the second sign in response from the application linking server .

At block the back end server may process the request for data and may generate a response that includes the requested data. In certain embodiments the nature of the information included in the response may be based at least in part on the user associated with the mobile application. At block the back end server may transmit the response to the mobile application.

At block the mobile application may process the response received from the back end server extracting at least a portion of the data included in the response and storing the extracted data in the memory of the user device and or the data storage . In various embodiments each time the mobile application interacts with the back end server the associated back end server session identifier stored in the memory and or the encrypted portion of the data storage may be updated e.g. a TTL value associated with the identifier may be updated .

At block an information presentation identifying the set of associated mobile applications S may be presented via a user interface of a first mobile application. As previously noted the information presentation may identify each associated mobile application other than the first mobile application that is presenting the information presentation.

At block the first mobile application may receive an indication of user interaction with the information presentation that is indicative of a user selection of a second mobile application among the associated mobile applications identified in the information presentation. The illustrative single sign on processing depicted in assumes that the second mobile application has been downloaded to the user device on which the mobile applications are executing and that the second mobile application is fully integrated. In the event that the second mobile application is not fully integrated the illustrative processing for fully integrating the second mobile application may be performed.

At block a determination may be made as to whether an active interaction session exists with all back end server s with which the second mobile application is associated. As previously noted any of the associated mobile applications may be associated with multiple back end servers that may each unambiguously identify the user based on potentially different identifiers or authentication credentials. If it is determined at block that a respective active interaction session exists with each back end server with which the second mobile application is associated the illustrative processing flow may proceed to block of to initiate processing for receipt of application association information by the second mobile application.

If on the other hand it is determined at block that an active interaction session does not exist with at least one back end server associated with the second mobile application the illustrative processing flow may proceed to block . The operations of blocks may represent iterative processing that may be performed in connection with each back end server associated with the second mobile application and for which an active interaction session does not exist.

At block a previously unselected back end server associated with the second mobile application and for which no active interaction session exists may be identified or selected. At block the first mobile application may generate a first back end session identifier request for a second back end server session identifier indicative of establishment of an interaction session with the selected second back end server which may be referred to hereinafter as the second back end server . The first back end session identifier request may include various information including but not limited to an identifier associated with a first back end server with which the first mobile application is associated a first back end server session identifier associated with an existing interaction session with the first back end server an identifier associated with the second back end server an application linking server ALS session identifier associated with an existing interaction session with the application linking server and so forth. At block the first mobile application may transmit the first back end session identifier request to the application linking server .

Upon receipt of the first back end session identifier request from the first mobile application the application linking server may at block make a determination as to whether an active interaction session exists between the first mobile application and the application linking server . In certain scenarios an active interaction session between the first mobile application and the application linking server may not exist due to recent expiration of the interaction session. If it is determined at block that an active interaction session between the first mobile application and the application linking server does not exist the processing flow may proceed to block where the application linking server may generate and transmit to the first mobile application an exception message indicating that the single sign on processing has failed. Upon receipt of the exception message the first mobile application may again make a determination at block as to whether an active interaction session exists for each back end server associated with the second mobile application. However it should be appreciated that in certain embodiments the processing flow may not proceed from block to block but rather authentication processing based on authentication credentials received from the user may be performed in order to authenticate the user with the back end server s with which the second mobile application is associated.

If on the other hand the validation processing performed by the application linking server at block is successful the processing flow may proceed to block wherein the application linking server may generate a request for identifiers associated with the user. In accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure each back end server may be configured to store one or more identifiers associated with a user who is associated with an active interaction session with the back end server . The identifiers may include but are not limited to a social security number a tax identification number one or more demand deposit account DDA numbers each potentially including a routing number and an account number one or more debit card numbers one or more credit card numbers one or more electronic mail addresses one or more telephone numbers one or more social networking identifiers various other financial account or entity identifiers and so forth. In certain embodiments a respective more than one instance of one or more identifiers associated with the user may be stored by a back end server e.g. multiple electronic mail addresses . Further each back end server may be configure to utilize certain identifier s to unambiguously identify a user and establish an interaction session between the user and the back end server without requiring authentication credentials associated with the user.

The application linking server may store in one or more internal and or external datastores respective information associated with each back end server that may include an identifier associated with the back end server identifier s that the back end server stores and is capable of providing to the application linking server identifier s that the back end server is configured to accept as part of single sign on processing and so forth.

The application linking server may utilize the respective information associated with the first back end server and the respective information associated with the second back end server to generate the identifiers request at block . The identifiers request may include a request for all identifiers associated with the user that the first back end server is capable of providing or in other embodiments may be a request for a subset of identifiers e.g. those identifiers that the first back end server is able to provide and which the second back end server is able to use to identify the user .

As previously noted the first back end server may store and be able to provide to the application linking server various illustrative identifiers associated with a user who in turn is associated with an active interaction session with the first back end server . As a non limiting example the first back end server may be able to provide illustrative identifiers including a social security number electronic mail address es and telephone number s . As a further non limiting example the application linking server may have knowledge based on the respective information associated with the second back end server that the application linking server has access to that the second back end server is able to accept DDA s credit card number s debit card number s electronic mail address es and telephone number s . In the above illustrative example the application linking server may generate an identifiers request for all of the identifiers that the first back end server is able to provide e.g. the social security number electronic mail address es and telephone number s . In other embodiments the application linking server may scope the identifiers request to request only those identifiers that the first back end server is able to provide and which the second back end server accepts for identifying the user without requiring authentication credentials e.g. electronic mail address es and telephone number s .

It should be appreciated that in certain embodiments the intersection between the set of identifiers that the first back end server is able to provide and the set of identifiers that the second back end server is configured to accept may be null. That is there may be no identifiers in common between those the first back end server can provide and those that the second back end server is able to utilize to identify the user. In such scenarios single sign on processing may not be able to be performed and the launched mobile application e.g. the second mobile application may have to obtain authentication credentials from the user in order for explicit identification of the user by the appropriate back end server e.g. the second back end server .

In addition to an identification of one or more identifiers associated with the user the identifiers request may further include the back end server session identifier indicative of an interaction session with the first back end server . The application linking server may transmit the identifiers request at block . The first back end server may receive the identifiers request and initiate various validation processing. At block the first back end server may make a determination as to whether an active interaction session exists that corresponds to the back end server session identifier included in the received request. Further although not depicted in the first back end server may additionally make a determination as to whether the identifiers request is received from a trusted party. If it is determined that the request is not received from a trusted party an exception message may be generated and transmitted to the application linking server for transmission to the first mobile application and potential presentation to the user.

If it is determined that a corresponding active interaction session does not exist the illustrative processing flow may proceed to block where the first back end server may generate a response indicating lack of an active interaction session. On the other hand if a determination is made at block that an active interaction session exists that is associated with the first back end server and that corresponds to the back end server session identifier included in the request received from the application linking server the first back end server may proceed to identify the user associated with the active interaction session at block . At block the first back end server may determine one or more identifiers associated with the user and generate a response that includes the one or more identifiers. The identifier s included in the response may be appropriately constrained based on the identifier s requested in the identifiers request. At block the first back end server may transmit the response to the application linking server . The response transmitted at block may be a response that includes one or more identifiers associated with the user based on successful authentication of the user by the first back end server or may be the response generated at block that indicates lack of an active interaction session.

At block the application linking server may make a determination as to whether an active interaction session was confirmed by the first back end server . More specifically the determination at block may be a determination as to whether the response received from the first back end server includes the requested identifiers or includes an indication of lack of an active interactive session. If it is determined that an active interaction session was not successfully confirmed and thus that the response does not include the requested identifiers the application linking server may generate and transmit to the first mobile application an exception message indicating failure of the single sign on processing. Upon receipt of the exception message the first mobile application may optionally present the exception message to the user at block . From block the illustrative processing flow may again proceed to block where a previously unselected back end server with which the second mobile is associated may be selected for initiation of single sign on processing. It should be appreciated that in certain embodiments the processing flow may not proceed from block to block but rather authentication processing based on authentication credentials received from the user may be performed in order to authenticate the user with the back end server s with which the second mobile application is associated.

If a determination is made at block that an active interaction session was confirmed by the first back end server and that the response received from the first back end server includes one or more requested identifiers the processing flow may proceed to block where the application linking server may generate a second back end session identifier request that includes one or more identifiers extracted from the response received from the first back end server . In certain embodiments the application linking server may optionally filter the identifier s included in the received response to identify those that are usable by the second back end server to identify the user. In other embodiments the response may have already been constrained to include only those identifier s that are usable by the second back end server in which case all identifier s included in the response may be included in the second back end session identifier request. It should be noted that the terms first back end session identifier request and second back end session identifier request are used herein in the context of the illustrative processing flow of to distinguish the request received by the application linking server from the first mobile application from the request generated by the application linking server and transmitted to the second back end server .

Referring now to at block the application linking server may transmit the generated second back end session identifier request to the second back end server . At block the second back end server may receive the request and optionally verify that the request is received from a trusted party. Further at block the second back end server may determine the identifier s included in the second back end session identifier request and perform processing to identify the user associated with the identifier s . In certain embodiments the second back end server may serially select the identifier s from the request to identify the user based at least in part on one or more prioritization criteria associated with the second back end server . Further in certain embodiments the application linking server may utilize one or more prioritization criteria to prioritize the identifiers received in the response from the first back end server and may serially communicate the identifiers to the second back end server in accordance with the determined priority until the user is successfully identified by the second back end server and an associated interaction session is established. The one or more prioritization criteria may include for example a likelihood of success in identifying the user and establishing an interaction session with the second back end server.

Upon identification of the user the second back end server may establish an interaction session between the user and the second back end server and may generate a back end server session identifier indicative of the established interaction session. At block the second back end server may generate a first response that includes the second back end server session identifier indicative of the interaction session established with the second back end server . In certain embodiments the first response may optionally include initial data to be provided to the second mobile application. Any such initial data included in the first response is ultimately transmitted to the first mobile application and thus may need to be provided to the second mobile application as a parameter associated with launching of the second mobile application or via the encrypted portion of the data storage of the user device .

At block the second back end server may transmit the generated first response to the application linking server . At block the application linking server may process the first response received from the second back end server to extract various data included therein and store the extracted data in the memory and or in the data storage . The extracted data may include for example the back end server session identifier indicative of the interaction session established with the second back end server which may be stored in association with at least one of i an identifier associated with the second back end server ii an identifier associated with the user or iii an identifier associated with the second mobile application. Storing the second back end server session identifier in this manner may allow the application linking server to maintain knowledge of the interaction session established between the user and the second back end server .

At block the application linking server may generate a second response that may include an indication of successful single sign on processing at the second back end server the second back end server session identifier indicative of the interaction session established with the second back end server an updated ALS session identifier and optionally initial back end specific data received from the second back end server . At block the application linking server may transmit the second response to the first mobile application. It should be noted that the terms first response and second response are used herein in the context of the illustrative processing flow of to distinguish the response including the second back end server session identifier received by the application linking server from the second back end server from the response including the second back end server session identifier that is generated by the application linking server and transmitted to the first mobile application.

At block the first mobile application may extract and store various data included in the second response received from the application linking server . More specifically the first mobile application may store the second back end server session identifier indicative of the interaction session established with the second back end server as well as the updated ALS session identifier in the memory of the user device . In addition the first application may store the second back end server session identifier in the encrypted portion of the data storage of the user device . Further the ALS session identifier stored in the encrypted portion of the data storage may be overwritten with the updated ALS session identifier.

From block the illustrative processing flow may proceed once again to block where a determination may again be made as to whether an active interaction session exists with each back end server with which the second mobile application is associated. If it is determined that an active interaction session does not exist for at least one back end server associated with the second mobile application the processing flow may again proceed to block and a previously unselected back end server for which no active interaction session exists may be selected for initiation of single sign on processing. If on the other hand an active interaction session exists for each back end server associated with the second mobile application the second mobile application may be launched in accordance with the illustrative processing flow depicted in .

While the single sign on processing described above has been described in the context in which the application linking server transmits the identifiers request to the first back end server associated with the first mobile application it should be appreciated that in those embodiments in which the first mobile application is associated with multiple back end servers identifiers associated with the user may be requested from any back end server with which an interaction session has already been established. Further in certain embodiments back end servers for which interaction sessions exist may be serially accessed until identifier s are provided based on which the second back end server is able to identify the user.

At block the second application may be launched with a parameter indicating that the second mobile application was launched from within the first mobile application. In certain embodiments the second mobile application may be launched from a user interface associated with the first mobile application that presents an information presentation identifying associated mobile applications and may be launched upon completion of the single sign on processing described through reference to .

At block the second mobile application may determine that it was launched from within the first mobile application based on a parameter passed from the first mobile application and may further determine that an active interaction session exists with the second back end server or in those embodiments in which the second mobile application is associated with multiple back end servers that a respective active interaction session exists for each such back end server . Based on these determinations the second mobile application may determine that user credentials are not required for authenticating the user.

As the second mobile application has not transmitted an explicit sign in request to the application linking server it may not have received the application association information from the application linking server . Accordingly at block the second mobile application may generate a request for application association information and transmit the request at block . In certain other embodiments the second mobile application may be able to access the application association information that was received by another associated mobile application from the encrypted portion of the data storage in which case processing would then continue from block .

At block the application linking server may generate a response that includes the application association information. As previously noted the application association information may include a respective identifier associated with each associated mobile application respective back end server identification information identifying a respective set of one or more back end servers associated with each associated mobile application respective metadata associated with each associated mobile application and so forth. At block the application linking server may transmit the response to the second mobile application.

At block which may be performed immediately after processing the received response or when a user navigates to the user interface for presenting an information presentation the second mobile application may generate the information presentation identifying associated mobile applications based at least in part on the application association information received from the application linking server . As previously described the information presentation may include various indicators that indicate a respective status of each associated mobile application. For example the information presentation may include a first indicator that identifies those associated mobile applications identified in the information presentation that are downloaded and fully integrated for leveraging single sign on processing a second indicator that identifies those associated mobile applications identified in the information presentation that are not yet downloaded to the user device but which are available for download and in certain operating system environments and or implementations a third indicator that identifies those associated mobile applications that are downloaded but not yet fully integrated for leveraging single sign on processing. In various embodiments information stored locally e.g. in memory or the encrypted portion of the data storage of the user device may be accessed to determine which indicator each mobile application in the information presentation is associated with. In certain embodiments the indicators may include a flag identifier tag or the like.

At block the second mobile application may present a user interface associated with the second mobile application. The user interface may display various content associated with the second mobile application and may be a landing page menu page tab bar interface or the like. In certain embodiments the first user interface presented by the second mobile application may be a user interface for presenting the information presentation. It should be appreciated that any suitable user interface associated with the second mobile application may be presented via the user device to the user upon successful launch of the second mobile application. Further as previously noted although generation of the information presentation is depicted in as occurring upon receipt of the response from the application linking server and prior to presentation of the initial user interface associated with the second mobile application it should be appreciated that in various embodiments the information presentation may be dynamically generated upon navigation of the user to the user interface presenting the information presentation from the initial user interface presented to the user or from one or more other associated mobile applications.

At this stage in the processing flow both the first mobile application and the second mobile application are executing on the user device and an ALS session identifier a first back end server session identifier indicative of an interaction session with the first back end server and a second back end server session identifier indicative of an interaction session with the second back end server are stored in the encrypted portion of the data storage of the user device . The user of the user device is able to navigate between the first and second mobile applications and within user interfaces of a same mobile application e.g. from a first user interface to a user interface for presenting the information presentation and perform operations that require appropriate back end server support. A user is further able to switch between associated mobile applications executing on the user device via respective user interfaces of the associated mobile applications that present the information presentation. For example a user may be able to bring to the foreground an active instance of the second mobile application executing on the user device via selection of the second mobile application from a user interface presenting the information presentation and which is associated with a first mobile application without launching a new instance of the second mobile application. The user may then be able to navigate from within the second mobile application to the user interface presenting the information presentation select the first mobile application from the user interface and bring the active instance of the first mobile application to the foreground without launching a new instance of the first mobile application.

The operations described and depicted with respect to the illustrative processing flows of may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally in certain embodiments at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain embodiments less more or different operations than those depicted in may be performed.

An illustrative user device is depicted in . The user device may correspond to the illustrative user device depicted in for example. The user device includes a display depicted as presenting a user interface associated with a first mobile application. The first mobile application may be any application in the set of associated mobile applications e.g. S . The user interface depicted in may be presented upon launching of the first mobile application from a home screen of the user device . In other embodiments the user interface depicted in may be presented upon failure to identify the user or failure to confirm an active interaction session through single sign on processing performed in connection with the first mobile application.

The illustrative user interface depicted in may include various fields for receiving authentication credentials associated with a user of the user device . The authentication credentials may include any suitable identifiers for authenticating the user such as for example a combination of a user id and a password or PIN a combination of an electronic mail address and a password or PIN number a combination of a user id or electronic mail address and a one time use code and so forth. The user interface may further include a selectable widget for submitting the authentication credentials to the first mobile application.

The user interface depicted in may be an initial user interface of the first mobile application that is presented to the user via the display of the user device upon successful authentication of the user based on the received authentication credentials. A menu or navigation bar may be provided that allows the user to navigate between various user interfaces of the first mobile application. For example soft key button or the like may be provided for navigating to a user interface for presenting the information presentation relating to mobile applications associated with the first mobile application. A button in the navigation bar may be associated with a user interface of the first mobile application for displaying message content associated with the first mobile application. The user interface depicted in may be presented upon user selection of the button as shown. Various other buttons may be provided as well e.g. a sign out button .

The user interface depicted in may be presented upon user selection of the button . The user interface depicted in may be a user interface of the first mobile application for presenting an information presentation identifying various other mobile applications associated with the first mobile application. A first indicator may be provided to identify those associated mobile applications that are downloaded on the user device and fully integrated. In the example shown in the My Net Worth mobile application is currently downloaded on the user device . The information presentation may further include a second indicator that identifies those associated mobile applications that are available for download but which have not been downloaded to the user device .

The user interface depicted in may be presented via the display of the user device responsive to user selection of one of the associated mobile applications e.g. the My Balances application from the information presentation presented via the user interface depicted in . The user interface depicted in may be a download panel generated by an application source server e.g. the application source server storing the selected mobile application and may be transmitted to the user device for presentation to the user. The download panel may include a description of the functionality supported by the selected mobile application as well as a selectable widget for initiating a download of the selected mobile application.

As noted previously through reference to the user interface depicted in may be presented upon user selection of the button and may be a user interface for presenting an information presentation relating to mobile applications associated with the first mobile application. The user interface depicted in may present a regenerated information presentation that identifies a current status associated with each mobile application associated with the first mobile application. For example upon download and integration of the My Balances application the information presentation shown in may be regenerated and presented as shown in . In certain embodiments the information presentation may be regenerated responsive to user navigation to the user interface for presenting the information presentation. In the regenerated information presentation various mobile applications are identified as being downloaded and fully integrated and various mobile applications continue to be identified as available for download.

The user interface depicted in may be presented via the display of the user device upon user selection of a second mobile application of the associated mobile applications e.g. the My Balances app from for example the information presentation depicted in . In one or more embodiments of the disclosure upon user selection of the second mobile application single sign on processing as described earlier may be performed to establish a respective authentication session with each back end server with which the second mobile application is associated such that the second mobile application may be launched without requiring authentication credentials. Similar to the first mobile application the second mobile application may include various soft key buttons or the like for navigating between different user interfaces of the second mobile application. For example a button may be provided for navigating to a user interface of the second mobile application for presenting an information presentation relating to mobile applications associated with the second mobile application. Further a button may be provided for navigating to a user interface for displaying balance content associated with the second mobile application as shown in as well as various other buttons such as a sign out button .

As previously noted in certain operating system environments and implementations various associated mobile applications may have an intermediate status in which the applications are downloaded to the user device but not yet fully integrated for leveraging single sign on processing. depicts an illustrative user interface presenting an information presentation in such an operating system environment. The user interface depicted in may be associated with for example the My Balances application. The information presentation may include a first indicator that identifies those associated mobile applications that are installed and fully integrated and a second indicator that identifies those mobile applications that are available for download. The information presentation may further include a third indicator that identifies those mobile applications that are downloaded but not yet fully integrated for leveraging single sign on processing. A navigation bar may also be provided that includes various buttons for navigating between various user interfaces and one or more other buttons e.g. button for initiating other functions. Upon user selection of a mobile application associated with the indicator e.g. Mobile Source Capture processing as described in may be performed for fully integrating the mobile application.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further although specific example embodiments have been presented it should be appreciated that numerous other examples are within the scope of this disclosure.

Additional types of CRSM beyond those described previously that may be present in association with any of the components described herein e.g. any of the components of the networked architecture may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices solid state memory devices or any other medium. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM.

Computer readable communication media may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. Examples of computer readable communication media whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. For example the distribution of software may be an Internet download. It is noted that as used herein CRSM does not include computer readable communication media.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of embodiments of the disclosure. Conditional language such as for example can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or unless otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

