---

title: Method for performing interactive services on mobile device, such as time or location initiated interactive services
abstract: A system for performing interactive services at a mobile device is disclosed. In some cases, the system receives an indication of an event, and provides interactive services to a user of the mobile device based on the event. In some cases, an indication of an event in invokes a script-based process that determines one or more actions to present to a user of the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313606&OS=09313606&RS=09313606
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 09313606
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131203
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 834 398 filed on Jul. 12 2010 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 685 108 filed Mar. 12 2007 entitled METHOD FOR PERFORMING INTERACTIVE SERVICES ON A MOBILE DEVICE SUCH AS TIME OR LOCATION INITIATED INTERACTIVE SERVICES now U.S. Pat. No. 7 756 545 which is a continuation of International Application No. PCT US2006 062047 filed Dec. 13 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 749 854 filed Dec. 13 2005 entitled METHOD FOR PERFORMING INTERACTIVE SERVICES ON A MOBILE DEVICE SUCH AS TIME OR LOCATION INITIATED INTERACTIVE SERVICES and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 849 390 filed Oct. 3 2006 entitled SIM BASED METHODS SUCH AS REMOTE LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT AND CONFIGURATION USING SIM BASED APPLICATIONS each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Current methods for providing services to users of mobile devices are often misguided as they do not meet users needs and wants. For example some service providers send advertising to their users via broadcast text messaging where the advertising is not targeted to any particular users and instead is sent to all users without regard for their interests.

Additionally problems are associated with providing such services to users in a timely and or topical manner. Users may receive content from a source but will have little or no use for the content and ignore the content.

These and other problems exist with respect to providing interactive services to users of mobile devices.

The headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the claimed invention.

In the drawings the same reference numbers and acronyms identify elements or acts with the same or similar functionality for ease of understanding and convenience. To easily identify the discussion of any particular element or act the most significant digit or digits in a reference number refer to the Figure number in which that element is first introduced e.g. element is first introduced and discussed with respect to .

A portion of this disclosure contains material to which a claim for copyright is made. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or patent disclosure including the Figures as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but the copyright owner reserves all other copyright rights whatsoever.

The invention will now be described with respect to various embodiments. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding of and enabling description for these embodiments of the invention. However one skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced without these details. In other instances well known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the embodiments of the invention.

It is intended that the terminology used in the description presented below be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the invention. Certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

A method and system for providing interactive services to a user will now be described. In some cases the system simulates an in bound call to a user of a mobile device and provides an interactive display during the call. In some cases the system triggers an interactive package of services to be presented to a user when the system reaches a pre determined event or time.

In some cases the system enhances the experience of answering a phone call by providing visual and or other interactions for the user. For example the system may upon a triggering of a script based process due to a pre determined occurrence of an event simulate an inbound call to a user at his her mobile device. The user may receive the call such as by pressing answer or send on the handset of the mobile device and the system may present the user with an interactive display of services such as a web page displaying content to the user.

Aspects of the invention can be embodied in a special purpose computing device or data processor that is specifically programmed configured or constructed to perform one or more of the computer executable instructions explained in detail herein. Aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices which are linked through a communications network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Aspects of the invention may be stored or distributed on computer readable media including magnetically or optically readable computer discs hard wired or preprogrammed chips e.g. EEPROM semiconductor chips nanotechnology memory or other data storage media. Indeed computer implemented instructions data structures screen displays and other data under aspects of the invention may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks on a propagated signal on a propagation medium e.g. an electromagnetic wave s a sound wave etc. over a period of time or they may be provided on any analog or digital network packet switched circuit switched or other scheme . Those skilled in the relevant art will recognize that portions of the invention reside on a server computer while corresponding portions reside on a client computer such as a mobile or portable device and thus while certain hardware platforms are described herein aspects of the invention are equally applicable to nodes on a network. In an alternative embodiment the mobile device or portable device may represent the server portion while the server may represent the client portion.

The handset based services may include executable software software configurations hardware configurations and controls and handset operating system interfaces. As disclosed herein executable software may include without limitation any software program stored on the mobile device associated memory device associated SIM or UICC and so on both permanently and temporarily connected via hardware or wireless connectivity. The mobile device may include an authentication system e.g. via a SIM a hardware interface a report system a script interface a script platform data and scripts . The network based services may include a network or networks mobile network services a mobile network operator customer service system a host information management system updated scripts and report data . The components of the mobile device and the network based services will be described below.

The components within the mobile device allow the device to integrate both handset based services and network based services . The authentication system can implement SIM Subscriber Identity Module card based or standalone authentication to meet network requirements for desired levels of security. Authenticating a system to meet network requirements may not be required but is often recommended.

The hardware interface may retrieve hardware interface elements required for interfacing with network or phone based customer support services. Examples of hardware interface elements include changing volume changing frequency retrieving SIM Subscriber Identity Module ID connection status from the SIM or radio hardware and others. The report system may collect and forward the data reported by the mobile device to the network . The report system can also encrypt the handset identification information to provide increased security. The information can be encoded so that only the host information management system can decipher the handset identification information.

The script interface serves as a standard application programming interface for interactive services. More specifically the script interface provides an interface between scripts and the various hardware specific and executable program specific functions such as action components capable of performing actions on the mobile device . The script interface allows a single customer service script to be deployed across multiple operating systems and hardware configurations. In addition the script interface includes a standard API Application Programming Interface for both the hardware OS side and the script interface.

The script platform can mix and match calls through the script interface to acquire information to change or correct settings on the phone and to perform additional functions as described below. The script platform authenticates runs and updates all scripts manages reporting updates and changes communicates with the host information management system communicates with the GUI Graphical User Interface and manages customer surveys and interviews. The host information management system can push a notification to the script platform via USSD Unstructured Supplementary Services Data SMS Short Message Service IP Internet Protocol or any other network connectivity that the mobile device supports. The script platform can run the scripts after authentication and the scripts can be authenticated to the network or to the phone.

The components within the network based services allow the mobile device to communicate with and to retrieve data from the network . The network based services may include wired and wireless systems. The mobile network services may consist of one or more systems including billing CRM Customer Relationship Management provisioning and others. Furthermore mobile network services are able to return data calls made by mobile devices via standard network protocols e.g. IP DTMF Dual Tone Multi Frequency SMS USSD etc. .

The mobile network operator customer service and interactive system may also consist of one or more systems relating to customer service including billing CRM provisioning and others. The host information management system controls interactions between the mobile device and the host customer support system. The host information management system can transmit updates to the mobile device. The mobile device typically employs a unique handset ID or serial number and a mobile phone number. The report data provides storage for report information gathered from the mobile device. The updated scripts consist of scripts that the host customer support system provides to the mobile device. The updated scripts can be managed and versioned as desired by the host information management system can be targeted at specific subscribers or groups of subscribers and can include requests for reports and customer interview surveys.

The provisioning agent interacts with the updated scripts and report data . The provisioning agent collects report data associated with the device data and subscriber experience data from the mobile device . The provisioning agent also corrects subscriber problems in real time by transmitting appropriate scripts to the mobile device . The transmission of scripts to and the collection of data from the mobile device may be hosted within the network or externally. In addition the updated scripts and the report data may be stored in an SQL Structured Query Language database .

The mobile device may include a rendering platform e.g. implemented in C an optional UI User Interface server a client and a script interface . The client generates reports containing subscriber data and transmits the reports to the network based services . The client receives scripts from the network based services that can correct subscriber problems. The script interface allows a single script to be executed by multiple operating systems and hardware configurations. In addition the mobile device may also include an OS Operating System specific OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer and device hardware . In general the mobile device scripts or applications may be customized via a European Computer Manufacture s Association ECMA compliant scripting language such as JavaScript. Such software can be installed by the manufacturer or after manufacturing such as over the air particularly with open OS based devices. For proprietary OS based devices a small kernel can be installed at the time of manufacturing or flashed onto the device at a later time and then the full client application can be installed on the mobile device over the air.

As explained herein the scripts or software applications on the mobile device provide for at least four processes providing customer care to a subscriber on the mobile device by intercepting calls diagnostic tools to allow customer service representatives to remotely execute diagnostics and commands on the mobile device with proactive tool to correct problems for subscribers on the mobile device collecting and summarizing data and other metrics with respect to mobile devices and guides to train subscribers when they need it most such as the first time they attempt to use an application.

Referring to an example of an alternative embodiment is shown where the mobile device communicates with multiple remote devices and . Remote devices and each include a wireless transceiver that communicates with the mobile device such as via a Bluetooth link IEEE 802.11 or other short range wireless link. The mobile device may communicate with the remote device via a wired communication port that the mobile device can be physically coupled to at the subscriber s option. As also shown the remote device includes a wired connection to the network . Thus the mobile device may be a central communicator within a subscriber s home or other location where the mobile device receives alerts from the remote devices provides instructions or steps to the subscriber allows the subscriber to query a status of remote devices allows the subscriber to send commands to or operate the remote devices and so forth. While a local wireless link is described above the mobile device may be capable of remotely querying and controlling the remote devices via other connections such as via the network to control the remote device or via a longer range wireless link such as a WAN satellite link and so forth.

The system may also provide support from a network server to the mobile device. The mobile device may include a STK SIM application toolkit for driving the interface and the exchange of data between the mobile device and the network server. The STK may search for relevant support pages in response to a data request from the mobile device application. The relevant support pages may be stored in a support page database on the network server. The relevant support pages may be pushed to the mobile device via SMS USSD or other methods. An STK application handler on the mobile device opens the support pages using a browser. In addition additional support pages may be retrieved remotely from the network server and opened using the STK application handler. Support pages from the network server may also be stored locally on the mobile device. These support pages provide data or instructions as described herein such as during the display of interactive services.

In an alternative embodiment the SIM USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module on the mobile device may be used to provide scripts and the processing of scripts when determining events or occurrences at the mobile device. In some cases a 3GPP TS 11.14 compliant or similar SIM or USIM to process and or invoke scripts used to generated displays pages and other interactions.

The system may provide interactive services to a subscriber such as time based or event based interactive services. For example a subscriber s mobile device may be set up to optionally display certain interactive content periodically or sporadically such as at a defined date and or time. When the defined date and or time are reached the system initiates a process that may provide the interactive content. The system may invoke a script causing the mobile device to connect to an associated network to access information. This information may then cause the script to process local decisions at the mobile device such as locally displaying information to the subscriber on the mobile device if certain conditions are met.

For example the system may check the current location of the subscriber to see if it is appropriate to contact them it may check a user contact preferences database to see if the time or other customer conditions for contact are appropriate it may check to verify the local presence of a customer or vendor specific RFID device s by type classification or specific devices identifiers it may check to see what kind of network and bandwidth is locally available in case a broadband network is required for streaming data such as a video of a scheduled sports match and so on.

Furthermore the system may check to see if a user or subscriber is a customer of the vendor via a network that wishes to be notified of certain special offers from a vendor and then change script mode to begin monitoring for a particular group of radio identifications such as available via RFID technology Bluetooth technology WIFI and so on that could be associated with a business store front so a subscriber may be notified with special information when they are near the vendor s store front which benefits a user in that privacy information may not have to be shared the vendor may not require any knowledge of the user s presence all location information may be consumed locally within the mobile device.

Also a certain time and or date may put the device into a special mode and the system may ask or prompt the user to adopt one or more special modes for the device. For example the device may be set to switch into the special mode of a sports mode when at a certain time such as once every week and for a certain duration such as for three hours the device may begin monitoring certain short messages. Additionally the special mode in this case the sports mode may activate certain device network capabilities that may have been turned off e.g. to increase battery life such as WIFI where the networking parameters may be in the script based on user and device capabilities where the primary goal may be to have the device ready to immediately play content to the user.

The system may also provide the ability to turn on or off specific radios on the mobile device or other functionalities or applications. For example a special mode would be to assume a particular WIFI radio status of being OFF during the hours of 8 P.M. and 6 A.M. the device s time and or while the device is wirelessly attached or was last attached to a specific group of cell towers e.g. by GSM cell ID . In this example WIFI radios on the device may be turned off at night while the user is at home and not expecting to use the device.

Furthermore the system may check with the network time and or date in case there is a discrepancy between the time and or date of the device and the network. The discrepancy between network time and device time may be used as a variable to adjust an event time. For example a target event time on a device may be 9 A.M. and the device s time shows 9 A.M. but the network s time is found to be 6 A.M. In this case the target event meant to initiate on the mobile device may be temporarily modified to initiate the event at 12 P.M. the corrected time without changing the device s clock. Local country identifiers from the mobile network may also be used to modify the initiation of events on the mobile device. For example a user traveling to another time zone will not receive a call and thus be awoken at their mobile device s time of 5 A.M. with a request to pay their utility bill. Instead the scripted system may correct the time so that the user is not contacted until a later local time such as 9 A.M. which may be the originally intended time in the user s home.

Additionally the system may based on a command implied or included in a text message or IM or email or calendar event turn a WIFI or Bluetooth radio either on or off or attach to a specific access point. Also the system may use text messages to set up additional events launching local scripts that may monitor various communication channels such as IM and SMS channels that may provide additional triggers to be monitored.

Additionally the content rendering system may alert a subscriber of content in other ways such as sending event related announcements e.g. playing Scoooooore to announce action s at a sporting event displaying visual animation where sound is not played to the subscriber sending company jingles or animation using vibration or other quiet notifications and so on. Also the system may network to other devices such as televisions appliances computers and so on via RFID Bluetooth WIFI or other local radio networks and perform certain functions such as make a cup of coffee at a certain time at a networked coffee maker .

The screens may be stored as display descriptions graphical user interfaces or other methods of depicting information on a computer screen e.g. commands links fonts colors layout sizes and relative positions and the like where the layout and information or content to be displayed on the page is stored in a database. In general a link refers to any resource locator identifying a resource on a network such as a display description provided by an organization having a site or node on the network. A display description as generally used herein refers to any method of automatically displaying information on a computer screen in any of the above noted formats as well as other formats such as email or character code based formats algorithm based formats e.g. vector generated Flash format or matrix or bit mapped formats.

Upon initiation of the content such as by reaching a predetermined date and time the system may play a ring tone or provide other signals vibration visual signals and so on alerting the subscriber of the content to be displayed. In some cases the system will pretend or mimic an in bound call and alert the subscriber similarly. In this way the system may stimulate a user or subscriber with known functions of the mobile device such as familiar ring tones or alerts when the device receives a voice call an SMS an email and so on. The user may be more receptive to known stimuli and receive the content.

If the subscriber accepts the in bound call either by pressing a send button or any other button capable of accepting calls the system may play a message informing the subscriber that interactive content is to be displayed. For example upon hearing a normal ring tone a subscriber may see that City Gas is calling screen press a send button on his or her mobile phone and hear a message such as Welcome to City Gas services please look at your display now. The system may then provide an interactive content screen to the subscriber via the mobile device s display. For example the system may call the subscriber once a month to provide interactive content allowing the subscriber to pay his or her bill . The interactive content as shown in may be the subscriber s account information billing statement information interactive buttons allowing the customer to pay a bill or perform other account management functions and so on.

If the subscriber does not accept the in bound call either by rejecting the call or not answering the system may reschedule the event to another date and time based on preset definitions located at the mobile device or retrieved from a remote network based resource.

Alternatively or additionally the subscriber may request to decline certain event initiated content using this methodology. The system may then query the user for a preferred method and perform follow up configuration or scheduling of remote services according to the subscriber s preferences. For example the user may decline an in bound call and additionally ask to not be contacted in the same manner again. The system may then ask the subscriber if they prefer to be notified only in certain locations prefer other methods such as email or voice or prefer only to be contacted within range such as via RFID of a particular piece of equipment during certain hours like business hours . As an example of the latter case the system may contact a subscriber at 7 P.M. when an office copier is low on toner and initiate an alert text message that may start an interaction with the subscriber. The subscriber may decline the interaction and upon being asked by the system for preferences may request to be contacted between working hours and when located a certain distance from the RFID of the copy machine.

Although a certain date and time may trigger the system to perform the above functions one of ordinary skill will realize that other events may trigger the system to carry out similar aspects of the technology. For example the system may invoke the process when a subscriber s bill is past due when a subscriber s minutes are low when a subscriber owes a certain amount of money before a subscriber s account is over and may prompt a subscriber to renew the account and so on. Also in some examples the subscriber may determine when to receive such in bound calls. For example the subscriber may wish to receive interactive content after pre selected sporting events are completed after stock markets close a week before a bill is due and so on.

The system may also use a subscriber s calendar items as events and combine these events with vendor s catalogs or other content. For example a week before a calendar item containing a key word such as birthday may be considered an event and the system may trigger catalogs of certain gift vendors those who arrange to have scripts loaded on a subscriber s device and linked to that keyword to display to the subscriber. In this example the subscriber may then interact with the scripts and select certain services or products which the system may access via external connections. The system may perform immediate or faster interactions such as connecting to video streams if an event warrants such an interaction.

Because a vendor is only contacted when outbound connections are made such as when a subscriber decides to purchase a service the system maintains the subscriber s privacy. Until the device makes an external connection the system performs all actions locally within the device scripts interactions and so on allowing the subscriber the opportunity to look at services and products from many different vendors without the vendor s knowledge.

As discussed herein events such as time based or location based may trigger the system to change the mode the usability the user interface or the functionality of a mobile device. For example the system may receive an indication that a user s subscription with their service provider ends in a month. Such an event may cause the device user interface to change to the latest user interface provided by the service provider or provide new functions to the device. The new functions and user interface can improve the look or functionality of a user s phone which could cause the user to delay purchasing a new phone. Similarly an anniversary birthday or other personal event indicated on a user s calendar may trigger the system to update the user s GUI to show a picture of their loved one. Also tasks may trigger additional reminders or mode changes. A user may pickup their child every day at 4 P.M. and the system may simulate a call from the child s mobile device shortly before 4 P.M. to remind the user of the pickup.

As can be seen aspects of the invention permit a wireless service provider to move call support functions from a call center to the mobile device itself. The wireless service provider can monitor call center activities and identify those subscriber inquiries that currently consume the largest amount of call center time and move such calls to be handled on the device itself where appropriate . As noted above many such customer support calls can be handled on the device such as technical support questions questions regarding whether a subscriber is eligible for a promotion billing inquiries and so forth. Thus the customer self support screens and functions stored locally on the mobile device links or data displayed in an initial screen on the device e.g. billing information and so forth can change dynamically so that the wireless service provider updates the customer self support features on the mobile device to accommodate those calls that currently consume the largest amount of call center time.

The interactive features are not limited to mobile devices as noted above. Such features can apply to any remote device including consumer appliances such as refrigerators dishwashers washers dryers ovens and so forth. With any of such appliances having computing capabilities and or connection to the internet such devices can locally store information and provide the functionality described above to handle customer inquiries that previously had been handled by a call center or web site accessed by the consumer via another device such as the consumer s computer.

Thus in an alternate embodiment a mobile device may use a Bluetooth or other wireless protocol link to communicate with the household appliances. For example a Bluetooth link between a refrigerator and a mobile device may allow the mobile device to automatically detect a drop in the temperature of the refrigerator. Upon automatic detection the mobile device may alert the user regarding the drop in temperature. Using the mobile device as an interface the user may find information to address the drop in temperature on the mobile device itself may download information from a network or may call a customer support center for the specific appliance.

As noted above each remote device may include the customer self support functionality described herein. Further since some remote devices may lack a sufficient display screen or other user interface the remote device may communicate with the mobile device so that the mobile device operates as a more robust user interface for that remote device. Thus consumers may receive instruction screens from an appliance and provide commands to that appliance through the mobile device.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above detailed description of embodiments of the invention is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times.

Further the mobile device may employ many other locally stored applications beyond those described above. For example the mobile device may include its own IVR system rather than employing an IVR system at the call center. Thus the subscriber navigates through a series of IVR menus to access desired information some of which may be stored on the phone. However one option in the local IVR could be to have the device place a call to the customer support call center.

In another alternative embodiment the system may provide links to web pages supplied by the wireless service provider where these links are to specific web pages directly addressing a need or question relevant to a current status of a user s mobile device. Such an alternative is useful when a mobile device has a web browser and sufficient data connection to the service provider s web server. Thus a call intercept function on the mobile device may provide a link to a relevant web page or even access that page automatically so that it is displayed to the user rather than for example displaying locally stored content .

While many embodiments described above employ software stored on the mobile device either before being given to a subscriber or during a subscriber call the scripts and other software noted above may be hard coded into the mobile device e.g. stored in EEPROM PROM etc. . Further the above functionality may be implemented without scripts or other special modules.

The teachings of the invention provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

All of the above patents and applications and other references including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated by reference. Aspects of the invention can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the invention.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description details certain embodiments of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the local based support system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the invention disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the invention encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the invention under the claims.

While certain aspects of the invention are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the invention in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the invention is recited as embodied in a computer readable medium other aspects may likewise be embodied in a computer readable medium. Accordingly the inventors reserve the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the invention.

