---

title: Unified management and control of users and devices of a service network
abstract: A unified control (UC) interface is configured for use with a portable computing device in part to manage and control access and personalization of a service network including managing automatic user and device access to subscribed to services. The UC interface of an embodiment can be used to display an overview of a service network, including authorized users, authorized devices, and/or associated settings. The UC interface of one embodiment can be used with a portable computing device in part to enable an authorized user to manage access and/or programming personalization on a per user and/or device basis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09084030&OS=09084030&RS=09084030
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09084030
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130206
---
Currently cable and satellite television providers offer a variety of services for consumers to choose from for homes and businesses. Depending on the services offered users may subscribe to receive cable services satellite cellular and or Internet services for example. A consumer may be required to use a set top box STB or other decrypting device and or a modem in order to receive a full array of subscribed to services. It is common practice for households and businesses to employ multiple STBs and or smart television products as part of a cable or satellite programming television service. More recent service offerings allow for personal mobile device users to access some limited services. For example some service providers offer the ability to watch cable television programming using a wireless network and a connected tablet or mobile phone.

With the current availability of affordable mobile devices users now routinely employ multiple devices every day such as tablet computers laptops and smart telephones as examples. Users have the ability to move from using one device to using some other device while using a home or business network. As part of protecting service integrity and preventing piracy some type of authentication or validation is typically required when deploying a different device such as requiring the user to select a service provider and or input a valid username and password for example.

Requiring users to login before using each device can be frustrating especially when attempting to use the limited controls typically available with a STB or television remote to login. Moreover such limited controls may require an unreasonable amount of time to personalize a user viewing guide such as when adding favorite channels recording programs and setting parental controls. Users would prefer to use the rich controls and or user interfaces of their mobile devices rather than the limited input controls currently available. Additionally users would rather not have to re enter authorization credentials each time they wish to access the services using different devices.

To overcome the limitations described above and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification.

Embodiments provide management and control features including the use of a unified control UC interface configured in part to operate with a portable computing device to manage aspects of a service network including managing user and or device access to subscribed to services. A method of an embodiment operates to use a portable computing device to execute programming code associated with the UC interface to display an overview of a service network including authorized users authorized devices and or associated settings of the service network. The UC interface of an embodiment is configured to enable an authorized user to manage access and personalization options on a per user or per device basis by way of the rich interactive features provided by a portable computing device. Computer storage or computer readable storage of an embodiment stores instructions or code configured to provide a UC application in part to manage aspects of a service network. Other embodiments are included.

These and various other advantages and features of novelty are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and form a part hereof. However for a better understanding of the disclosed embodiments the advantages and the objects obtained reference should be made to the drawings which form a further part hereof and to accompanying descriptive matter in which there are illustrated and described specific examples of the disclosed embodiments.

The UC manager can be used as part of enabling a user to use the client or other communicating device system to control automatic access and or personalization of multiple registered or authorized computing devices systems according to the corresponding users and or services. For example the UC manager can be used as part of providing an overview of a service network for display on a portable computing device along with providing management and control features over other computing devices systems and or users that are currently authorized to access subscribed to services.

As shown in the client includes a UC interface or component . The UC interface of an embodiment is configured as a computer program product or application that can be downloaded and installed locally or accessed as a web based application and includes programming code operable to provide unified management and control features associated with the service network. For example a user can use the client to visit an application store to download and launch the UC interface to display a personalized overview see of a home business or some other cable television service satellite television service or other communication environment based in part on the user login credentials subscription type mobile device type STB type etc.

Users can use features of the UC interface with a variety of available portable computing devices to connect and login to subscribed to services while using rich interactive device features to manage and or control aspects of a defined service network such as home and business networks for example. According to an embodiment users can use a portable computing device and UC interface to manage automatic access and personalization of aspects of the service network including managing access and personalization of other authorized portable devices on a on a per user and or per service basis.

Depending in part on the permissions of a logged in user the UC interface can be used to control personalization and other aspects of each service network including personalizing different types of access points and or level of service according to a particular accessing user and or associated device types. As an example a user can use a registered tablet computer or smart phone to launch the UC interface to login via the UC manager and display a personalized overview of settings associated with multiple STBs smart televisions and other user computing devices systems e.g. dad s tablet mom s tablet daughter s tablet etc. . The UC interface includes functionality to personalize favorite channels full and partial guide views video on demand views e.g. only HD included with subscription search features DVR listing and scheduling options home security parental control features etc. The client and server communicate over network s such as a cable satellite cellular and or other type of communication network s .

The UC interface can be used to manage how and when and to which users and or devices video and other services are to be delivered or accessed as part of managing a service network. For example the UC interface can be used to personalize programming while automatically logging in or logging out other authorized devices to use analog video digital video and other services. By using the UC interface to manage automatic device login and logout operations users are no longer required to login again and again when accessing services with other authorized devices.

A user can use the rich interactive input controls and display capabilities available with current portable devices to login using the UC interface and manage automatic login and or personalization views across all registered or authorized devices. The UC interface provides a mechanism to enable a one time login enabling customers to automatically login to multiple devices without having to enter or re enter previously entered correct login credentials for every device they own or have access to.

The UC interface enables users to personalize and view services including legacy QAM and IP based services as well as accessing different views according to personalized settings per authorized user per service per authorized device. As an example the functionality of the UC interface allows users to view a corresponding or substantially similar view on a portable computing device display or screen that would be displayed on a television display as controlled by a STB or other decoding apparatus. That is the UC interface can be used to access and control aspects of a STB without having to use the typically limited controls available through a STB or television remote control.

Correspondingly the UC interface and input controls e.g. voice commands touch commands etc. of the client can be used to automatically submit login or user credentials without having to go through the generally frustrating experience of using limited remote control input capabilities offered by a STB smart TV or gaming console for example. Customers can use the UC interface to bypass having to reenter login credentials each time they wish to access the services such as when watching television online using multiple tablets and smartphones for example. Thus users can use the UC interface to more conveniently personalize and control access to services using smart phones tablet devices laptops and or other portable devices.

The UC interface of an embodiment enables users to selectively login and or logout multiple registered or authorized devices systems as well as setting personalizations and other network aspects. As an example a customer can use a tablet computer at home to selectively control automatic login and logoff of other authorized devices after initially logging in via the UC interface . As described below the UC interface can be configured to display a substantially similar view and controls as one would see while viewing a programming guide via a STB and a TV. For example the UC interface launched from a smart phone can be configured to display a substantially similar view as one would see while viewing a programming guide via a STB and a TV.

As described above the UC interface enables user access with another authorized device without having to re enter login credentials once logged in. For example the UC interface and or UC manager can be used to transfer user login credentials or other authorization information to a STB server or other component as part of accessing content and or services. Customers can either logout directly from a STB or by using a portable device running the UC interface . The UC interface of an embodiment is configured with user interface features that allow the customer to choose devices that they want to login and or logout at the same time and choose one device or multiple devices to allow access at the same time.

The user can also use the UC interface to control the requirement of a subsequent login action rather than automatically logging in authorized devices while also selectively controlling automatic logout operations of one device or multiple devices. User credentials or other authentication information can be securely encrypted stored and safeguarded according to known techniques such as by using an identity management system and or secure cloud storage.

In an embodiment the UC manager can be used as part of accessing stored credentials from secure computer storage via any registered customer device running the UC interface . The UC manager of one embodiment can be configured to manage devices that the customer is using to access services by tracking where each UC interface is downloaded and or used while also allowing selections as to which devices to manage along with allowable services personalized settings and or access points associated with each authorized user and or device.

Customers are able to use the UC interface to add user s and or device s to a service network. As an example an authorized primary account holder can use the UC interface running on a tablet computer to control access and programming personalization by other newly added users and or devices according to a login credential or other permission. The UC interface can be used to manage access by a plurality of personal devices as well as other user devices systems using an associated UC interface. The UC manager of an embodiment can operate as centralized control point to grant access and direct transmission of login credentials to appropriate components of a service network.

The client server communication architecture can be configured using cable satellite wireless and or other components to control communication and access to legacy QAM and IP based systems to deliver networked services including video and other services. For example a cable or other service provider can offer the UC interface for download and installation as part of providing personalized overview view and control options over aspects of the subscriber service network. For example a parent can use the UC interface to configure different access and or personalization features to be displayed for a child s UC interface .

In order to gain access to the features of the UC interface according to an embodiment a user may have to download and install the UC interface or another application program on each accessing device according to the end user login credentials . Additionally a user may be required to initially enter an authorized username and or password to gain access to personalized views. Service providers can utilize the functionality of the UC manager in combination with features of the UC interface to provide a unified management and control paradigm to provide rich interactive control of aspects of a service network. Correspondingly once logged in the UC interface can be used to personalize aspects of a user s programming including a relevant programming lineup that may include analog video digital video and other services or content.

As an implementation example the UC interface can be configured as a downloadable application including executable program code to control how to display an overview of relevant components and or users of a service network. Code user preferences and or identifying information associated with the UC interface and or UC manager can be stored in computer storage such as memory hard disk storage solid state components or the like.

While a simplified block diagram is shown it will be appreciated that complex communication networks used to deliver QAM and IP signals include sophisticated hardware and software components such as a plurality of networked servers routers switches modems and or other components. Additionally each portable computing device and associated UC interface may use programming data metadata availability information including content delivered over RF and IP networks. Video programming from various content sources may be provided via a set top box DVR or some other device system. A recommendation engine can be included to generate recommendations regarding program selection for the UC interface and a profile system or server can be used to provide user profile details based at least in part on the user and or device system information.

A user profile may reflect that a user prefers to launch associated UC interfaces from different computing devices such as a primary tablet secondary tablet and a smart phone for example. As such a profile server can provide profile information to enable the UC interface to use program guide data and other views relevant to a current user. A profile server may also include other information and or preferences such as parental control settings SAP controls etc. that can be displayed using the UC interface . A device management server may be included to provide information regarding devices systems associated with a service account.

The recommendation engine can communicate with a profile server to apply user profile parameters to generate recommendations. The recommendation engine may also identify the device system currently in use and provide an appropriate display of available content. Rules may be used to control a number of user operations such as for example a priority for VOD over the Internet a priority to linear programming on a user DVR whether to include links and or information about the availability of the favorite programs etc. Other service and UC interface features may be based in part on particular customer subscriptions to certain tiers and networks.

As shown in an exemplary screen or view such as a home page or page provided after successful login for example of the UC interface provides a personalizable overview of aspects of a service network such as a home or business cable programming and Internet network for example. According to the example interface architecture shown in User A is provided with an initial overview displaying aspects of the service network including section that displays other users associated with the service network section that displays other devices associated with the service network and section that displays settings associated with the service network including per user per service per device settings as discussed below. The settings displayed in the section can be updated as a user interacts with information being displayed in the UC interface .

The exemplary UC interface also includes button or selection area that can be actuated to display other views such as by using a drop down or other menu of view options e.g. STB 1 STB 2 User guide views list view grid view genre view HD view favorites view etc. that may include per user personalized channel guide views per user personalized recording settings per user social network settings and or other service network views.

When installed on a tablet computer smart phone or other portable computing device the UC interface is configured to accept all of the rich input options afforded by the advanced computerized interfaces including touch audible stylus mouse etc. type inputs. As described above the UC interface of an embodiment communicates with a server such as an application server for example or other component as part of providing unified control and management features over a service network.

Assume for this example that a primary account holder User A has installed the UC interface on one or more mobile or portable computing devices such as a tablet a laptop and a smart phone for example and used the tablet to log in to a corresponding application server or other component using correct login credentials or other authenticating information. In one embodiment the UC interface can be configured as a web based application that may be accessed using a browser or other application. According to an embodiment an application server or other component can be used to securely store and control access to login credentials including automatic forwarding of the credentials to QAM and or IP service components.

For this example the login credentials of User A correspond with administrator or primary level privileges shown as Admin that enable such a user to control and manage a larger variety of aspects of the service network including capabilities that allow personalized STB setting programming and or guide views automatic login and logout of selected devices view and modification capabilities for various user and or device personalizations view and modification capabilities for associated STB and smart television personalizations etc. Other users may have more limited access and control options which can be defined by a primary or other user or by a subscription type or other rule.

As shown in after logging in and according to the personalization and settings of User A section is configured to display information associated with a User B a User C a User C and a guest user . In an embodiment the UC interface is configured to communicate with a dedicated server or other component that uses a unified management application in part to communicate information for populating aspects of the UC interface . For this example the UC interface shows that User B is currently not logged in User C is currently logged in User D is currently logged in and the guest user is not currently logged in. Section of this example includes a notice that informs a user to select a user in order to view corresponding settings.

Section of the view is configured to display other authorized devices of the service network. For this example section has been populated with devices that include a first tablet for User A a second tablet for User A a smart phone for User A a tablet for User B a smart phone for User B a laptop for user C a desktop for user C a smart phone for user C a first smart television a second smart television a first STB and a second STB. Section also includes a notice or other information that informs a user of the capability to automatically login and logout select devices systems. The UC interface also allows users to add and remove devices system. Exemplary section also includes a checkbox adjacent to each listed device which enables a user such as User A to selectively determine which devices to automatically login or logout.

Section of the view is configured to display settings associated with the service network. Section is automatically updated based in part on user inputs such as when a user selects or highlights any user and or listed device s to provide an overview and or details of the access and personalization settings for each corresponding user or device. The UC interface of one embodiment uses a double input operation e.g. double click double tap etc. to launch a view that a user would see if logged in. For example User A can double click on User B to update the UC interface and provide a personalized view that User B would see if logged in including favorite channels for each STB recording settings usage social network feed s log in status recent programs viewed etc.

It will be appreciated that based in part on the privileges or other security settings User B may have more limited or greater control or personalization options as compared to other users and check boxes or other areas may be greyed out or hidden if the user does not have the required privileges or access authorization. Settings associated with User B are displayed in section which may include logged in status per device or STB favorite channels for each STB recording settings social network feed s recent programs viewed etc. Selection area can be actuated or used by User A to display one or more personalized views such as a tablet view smart phone view STB view smart television view etc. associated with User B . Similar view and interactive paradigms can be applied to other users devices and or systems.

As shown in the example of section of the UC interface is configured to display various networks associated with the current user including a first home television network office television network a second home television network and another network location. Section is configured to display other devices and or users associated with the current user or network such as other portable devices STBs smart televisions and DVRs associated with each network. Section is configured to display settings associated with each network device and or user in a similar manner as described above with respect to or according to some other technique.

The process enables use of the UC interface running on a portable or mobile computing device to control how users and or devices interact with the service network including controlling personalizations of user and or device settings. For example a parent can use a tablet computer and features of the UC interface to display an overview of users and or devices and or settings associated with the service network as well as controlling and viewing personalization and access controls per user per service per device across the service network such as personalized guide views personalized channels to include views personalized on demand views personalized recorder views personalized parental control and access setting views personalized social network and third party application views etc.

Taking into account a particular network configuration and or subscription type the process can be used to control access and amounts of personalization allowed for each authorized user and or device. The UC interface of an embodiment can be used in conjunction with a server component to control automatic delivery of user credentials to various components such as legacy QAM and IP based components when delivering video and other services.

As described below depending in part on the identity of the logged in user the functionality provided by the UC interface can be used in conjunction with the rich interactive features of user portable devices to personalize various aspects of the service network such as personalizing the user s programming personalizing other user s services identifying other devices to automatically login or logout etc. Certain user may have different types of privileges and or access levels and the UC interface can use the different types of information in part to control the amount of interaction or personalization allowed for each user and or device.

With continuing reference to at the process begins when a user uses a mobile or portable device to launch the UC interface whether launched from a local installation or via a web based process. At the process receives login credentials or other authenticating information from using the UC interface and or the communication capabilities of the portable device as part of an authentication and or logon procedure. If the user is not an authorized user the process returns to and the user is prompted or otherwise required to re enter correct information before being allowed to proceed.

If the user is authorized to access the services the process at operates to securely store the login credentials if not already stored. For example the process at can be configured to store the received login credentials securely in local and or remote storage as known to those skilled in the art. The securely stored credentials may be accessed and automatically used to prevent users from having to enter the credentials multiple times on other authorized devices after an initial login using one authorized device and an associated UC interface.

At the process uses the UC interface in part to provide an overview of other authorized users devices settings and or other information associated with the service network. For example the UC interface can be used to display an overview of the logged in user s personalized programming parameters status and or other information along with similar information associated with other authorized users and or devices associated with the service network.

In an embodiment as part of the process at the UC interface can be configured to provide a prompt showing available devices and whether the user would like to automatically login or logoff one or more devices or users. As the UC interface receives user input at the process operates to update the overview or provide a corresponding view according to the user input.

If the user action or input is associated with a different authorized user logging in using the current UC interface or another device running an associated UC interface and if not already authenticated the process can be configured to authenticate the user before allowing the user to interact with the UC interface. For example a different authenticated or otherwise authorized user may be using a personal tablet computer to personalize settings such as a channel lineup and recordings for a first STB located in the living room or other area as well as personalizing channel views and recordings for a bedroom or game room STB via the associated UC interface. If the credentials of the different user are not currently securely stored the process stores the different user s credentials and provides the corresponding view or overview.

The automatic login and logout features of the UC interface can also be used to automatically login or logout to and display social network and other personalized information on the current device and or on an associated television or other display coupled to a STB. Moreover user personalizations and view preferences and or configurations may encompass relevant programming associated with a particular service and or login information such as information associated with analog video digital video and other services provided via legacy QAM and IP infrastructure.

Accordingly the UC interface can be used by a service or network provider as part of a screening mechanism to control automatic forwarding or application of user credentials or other authorizing information across the service network to control use of QAM and CDN resources. While a number and order of operations are described it will be appreciated that the embodiments encompass other implementations.

As shown in digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network including optical fiber and coaxial cable components to a television such as a smart television for example. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of subscribers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer or subscriber. The functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between a client side components such as STB and application server .

The exemplary architecture can be configured as a distributed client server computing architecture for providing video and data flow across the HFC network from server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via head end and STB or other component functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as a smart television set or other device system for example. Modern CATV systems provide a variety of services across the HFC network including digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand live video streaming and or information services as known to those skilled in the art.

On the client side of the architecture digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer via the STB and or some other signal processing component. The STB of an embodiment can be configured to be IP enabled and or otherwise configured to deliver IP television services to provide live video streaming capability for users to stream video to multiple user devices systems.

Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the architecture likewise are provided by the STB . As shown in the STB of an embodiment is configured as a multipurpose computing device having at least one computer processor memory and or input output mechanism s and functionalities. An input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device system such as a tablet slate computer smart phone etc.

The STB of an embodiment can also include IP communication capability and provide a filter interface for presenting filtered programming and or content via STB to the television . While the filter interface may be implemented using a STB the filter interface may also be provided using a wireless device any type of network media device or any device capable of interfacing with a STB or in a server or other module on the head end side. Compatible devices may include DVRs wireless phones PCs laptop computers tablet slate computers media viewing devices and the like.

The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as an infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system . The STB as well as other components can include or couple to each UC interface.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set.

A corresponding middleware layer can be included on the server side of the architecture for facilitating communication between the application server and the STB . The middleware layer of the application server and middleware layer of the STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to a markup language such as Extensible Markup Language XML for example.

According to one embodiment the STB passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport. According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the architecture via the HFC network such as through a video data downlink shown as V D down and or data via a data downlink.

The STB may transmit data from the client side to the server side via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the architecture using the HFC network to the STB for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . An in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. from about 54 to about 1000 megahertz and an exemplary signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink between the HFC network and the STB may comprise out of band data links. An out of band frequency range is generally at as a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be about zero to about 54 megahertz. Data flow between the STB and the application server can be passed through out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the application server through the HFC network to the STB . Operation of data transport between components of the architecture is well known to those skilled in the art.

With continuing reference to the head end is positioned on the server side and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to the client side for presentation to customers via television or some other client device system. As described above a number of services may be provided by the architecture including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content. An asset manager maintains content at the head end . The asset manager may also include a decision server for processing rules and other input to determine what content to provide.

The application server can be configured as a computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the STB via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the STB the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end for receipt and use by the STB . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for example and transmit to a customer through the HFC network and the STB . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the STB .

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted using XML and passed to the STB where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer . As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the STB .

According to various embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television or other session. The services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the architecture which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

As shown in the example of a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to various embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box or other identification associated with a customer.

The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server of an embodiment is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems.

The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above. An authentication system may include securely stored information according to known encryption and storage techniques such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs passwords and or other information for accessing network services. As will be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein only serves as one example.

According to embodiments each of the components of the GCSS illustrated in may operate as standalone components that are operatively coupled with a data hub for providing and receiving data in association with programming content and availability business rules profiles devices etc. Accordingly a data mining module storage metadata processor and a program guide generator may be independent operating entities located at disparate locations and that are operative for generating program guide data and or operate as a collection or distribution of components at one or more locations in communication via a distributed computing network such as the Internet or an intranet. In certain embodiments features of the data mining module storage metadata processor and or the program guide generator may be integrated or operate in a variety of combinations of components.

As shown in the headend server may provide different metadata for non linear programs content. The GCSS may receive metadata for non linear programs content from the headend server as well as metadata from other service provider content sources such as Video On Demand VOD and video content available through a network from Internet content sources .

Additionally the GCSS may receive customer s purchased content content available from the customer s cloud and or content from the service provider s cloud . Content metadata may be categorized based on availability and sent to customer devices systems for maintaining or using the program guide data. The customer devices systems may include a smart television STB and or cablecard a DVR a smart phone and or user media devices and . Smart phone may receive data via a communications network or by access the customer s personal cloud as known in the art.

The data mining module can be configured to access content sources and retrieve data associated with content for viewing. The data mining module can analyze the data from different perspectives or sources and or summarize mined data into useful information. The data mining module may categorize the content for example based on the day time customer preferences to display the user programming information. The metadata processor can be configured to process linear video program guide data store past program guide data process other available data determine a duration for maintaining the data and or link other available data for use by the program guide generator to provide display views on user devices systems.

The customer site can include a home WiFi Ethernet network that provide access to the Internet a set top box and or cablecard DVR and other user devices systems. The home WiFi Ethernet network may receive data and transfer the data to the appropriate endpoint such as the smart television set top box and or cablecard DVR and or other user devices systems. Likewise the home WiFi Ethernet network may receive data from any device system on the customer site and transmit the data to other components. The set top box and or cablecard can receive content using the headend server via the distribution network and provide the content to the user devices systems for display.

The user may set parameters or otherwise configure a UC interface to display content available for viewing according to a variety of factors such as genre selected titles actors directors or other criteria. The UC interface can be configured to display on any type of display or screen that a user chooses to view content. For example the UC interface may be configured to display service network overviews and personalized programming views for viewing on a smart phone smart television tablet or other viewing device system. Digital rights management may dictate that certain content is available for viewing only on a particular device.

As discussed above the exemplary architecture includes infrastructure for delivering and receiving content using server side components and consumer side or client side components. The architecture can be configured to deliver high speed broadband data signals and services to end users. The architecture includes an IP backbone comprising a packet switched network such used for the Internet wireless communication ADSL and CATV. The IP backbone can be used to distribute a rich array of digital content including video streaming to a variety of client applications.

The architecture enables broad access to content of a content delivery network CDN including content accessible by users via the Internet or some other network. IP enabled set top boxes can be controlled by a middleware platform to provide linear IP video MPEG by encapsulating packets for transmitting and receiving. Video signals can be delivered using a cable modem termination system CMTS QAM components and or some other component or protocol. CDNs typically function by receiving requests from clients checking a local cache for a copy of the requested resource or querying some source if a requested resource is not in the cache or has expired for example. CDN servers can be strategically located at the edges of various networks to limit loads on network interconnects and backbones. CDN servers can be redundantly deployed and interact with other CDN servers to respond to content requests from clients in attempts to optimize content delivery. For example network edge servers can enable ease of browsing navigating and streaming of content including streaming live video.

Components can be operatively coupled with a data hub for providing and receiving data in association with programming content and availability business rules profiles devices systems etc. Collecting content can include non linear programs content other service provider content Video On Demand VOD content available through a network that includes a plurality of Internet content sources etc. Content may be associated with a customer s purchased content a personal or customer cloud content from other service provider clouds and or from a QAM tuner. Content metadata may be categorized based on the availability and sent to customer devices systems for maintaining or using the program guide data. Depending on the particular customer set up a customer may employ different networked components including a WiFi Ethernet network to receive video over IP including but not limited to a modem set top box cablecard game console DVR smart phone desktop laptop etc.

A typical implementation example may include a subscriber using a tablet slate phone smart television and the like to view video programming using a high speed Internet service a video streaming application and a DOCSIS modem eMTA or gateway. A WiFi Ethernet network can receive data and transfer data to an appropriate consumer device system via an IP enabled STB and also receive transmit data from any device system to other components of the architecture . It will be appreciated that there are different types of communication networks and associated components that can be used to deliver video and other content to consumer devices including smart televisions tablet computers laptop computers desktop computers etc.

The embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate via a multitude of computer implementations including wired and wireless computing systems mobile computing systems e.g. mobile telephones tablet or slate type computers laptop computers etc. . In addition the embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate over distributed systems where application functionality computer storage or computer readable storage including memory data storage and retrieval and various processing functions may be operated remotely from each other over a distributed computing network such as the Internet or an intranet. The example devices and systems discussed herein are for purposes of example and illustration and are not limiting of a vast number of configurations that may be utilized for practicing various embodiments.

For the example of the computing device includes a processing system computer storage or memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit input device s etc. or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules.

The memory includes one or more computer readable storage computer storage or computer readable storage media capable of storing data and or computer executable or encoded instructions. Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor cause the application server to allow broad access to content placed on a content delivery network CDN .

In various embodiments the memory is implemented in various ways. For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data.

According to embodiments the term computer readable media includes communication media and computer readable storage media. Communication media include information delivery media. Computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism may be embodied on a communications medium. The term modulated data signal describes a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage medium may also refer to devices or articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface . In different embodiments the network interface is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device . The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device .

In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users. The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs.

Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment. Moreover embodiments may be implemented such that each or many of the components illustrated in may be integrated onto a single integrated circuit. When operating via such a single integrated circuit the functionality described herein may be operated via application specific logic integrated with other components of the computing device system on the single integrated circuit.

A server may provide other services to client devices systems. As one example server may be a web server providing web services over the web network . Example clients include computing device which may include any general purpose personal computer such as computing device a tablet computing device and or mobile computing device such as smart phones.

Data input to the device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc.

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS system e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be utilized to communicate with a wireless or WIFI based positioning system to determine a device location.

Although described herein in combination with mobile computing device in alternative embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein. For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

Although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may also be stored on or read from other types of computer storage or computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

