---

title: Methods, systems and computer readable media for facilitating a remote deposit to a prepaid card account
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer readable media for facilitating a remote deposit to a prepaid card account are disclosed. In one example, the method includes receiving, via an application programming interface (API) supported by a central switch node, a web based service message containing a load request from an acquiring entity. The method further includes utilizing, at the central switch node, the load request to identify an issuing entity that hosts a prepaid card account associated with the load request from among a plurality of issuing entities and communicating the load request from the central switch node to the issuing entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08958534&OS=08958534&RS=08958534
owner: Mastercard International Incorporated
number: 08958534
owner_city: Purchase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130716
---
The subject matter described herein relates to the processing of electronic fund transactions. More particularly the subject matter described herein relates to systems methods and computer readable media for facilitating a remote deposit to a prepaid card account.

Presently prepaid check deposit networks exist that enable a cardholder to electronically add funds to a prepaid card account. While the load process supported by such prepaid systems enables prepaid cardholders to convert deposited checks into prepaid card funds in a convenient manner the initial integration between check guarantors and issuing entities such as banks can be time consuming and require a significant investment.

Traditionally acquiring entities including third party processors such as check guarantor services communicate with issuing entities or issuers via a central switch node or a central network. Specifically the acquiring entities or acquirers are required to connect to the central switch node or network through an interface processor that transmits transaction messages in ISO 8583 format. Operating the interface processor can be challenging for acquiring entities as it requires on going maintenance and support that can become costly. As a result check guarantors will continue to pursue direct connections with issuing entities as the benefit of leveraging the existing central network is limited.

In light of these disadvantages there exists a need for improved systems methods and computer readable media for facilitating a remote deposit to a prepaid card account.

According to one aspect the subject matter described herein relates to methods systems and computer readable media for facilitating a remote deposit to a prepaid card account. In one embodiment the method includes receiving via an application programming interface API supported by a central switch node a web based service message containing a load request from an acquiring entity. The method further includes utilizing at the central switch node the load request to identify an issuing entity that hosts a prepaid card account associated with the load request from among a plurality of issuing entities and communicating the load request from the central switch node to the issuing entity.

The subject matter described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. As such the terms function node or module as used herein refer to hardware which may also include software and or firmware components for implementing the feature being described. In one exemplary implementation the subject matter described herein may be implemented using a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include non transitory computer readable media such as disk memory devices chip memory devices programmable logic devices and application specific integrated circuits. In addition a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform or may be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.

In accordance with the subject matter disclosed herein methods systems and computer readable media for facilitating a remote deposit to a prepaid card account are disclosed. The present subject matter provides cardholders with a convenient way to deposit monetary funds to a prepaid card account. For example the present subject matter utilizes a prepaid loading system that leverages an existing network infrastructure e.g. a MasterCard Network infrastructure or MasterCard payment network that provides a connection between to connect different points of deposit e.g. a merchant point of sale an automated teller machine ATM a mobile device a cash transfer entity etc. and various issuing entities such as banks and credit card companies. More specifically a central switch node or network associated with an entity such as MasterCard may be leveraged along with the entity s existing connection to issuers to support a prepaid card load transaction. Thus by establishing a connection to a central switch node a check guarantor entity can eliminate the need to directly integrate with issuer processors on an individual basis. Furthermore the present subject matter may utilize existing processing and transaction codes of the aforementioned existing network infrastructure to conduct remote deposits in an efficient manner.

As a brief overview the present subject matter may be utilized by a prepaid cardholder to deposit funds such as a cash deposit or a check deposit into a prepaid card account. For example prepaid cardholder may decide to load a particular amount on a prepaid card by providing an image of a check to a check guarantor entity.

Once the image of the check is received the check guarantor entity processes the information and makes a determination as to whether the check should be approved or rejected. If the check is approved the check guarantor entity may send to a central switching node a load request indicating the guaranteed check amount to be deposited. In one embodiment the load request includes a Payment To transaction message that may be utilized within a MasterCard network infrastructure and or system. Although the following disclosure describes the use of a Payment To load request message other types of load requests may be utilized in other payment networks systems and or infrastructures without departing from the scope of the present subject matter. For example the load request may include an original credit transaction OCT message that is utilized within a VISA network infrastructure and or system.

In some embodiments the load request is communicated to the central switching node as a web based service message via an application programming interface API supported by the central switch node. Upon receiving the load request the central switching node utilizes information contained in the received request message to identify an appropriate issuing entity to forward the load request. After determining the appropriate issuing entity destination the central switching node may communicate the load request. The issuing entity subsequently receives and processes the load request. Upon approving of the load request the issuing entity may credit the prepaid cardholder s account balance and generate a response message containing the updated account information. The response message may be communicated via the central switch node to the original acquiring entity. In one embodiment the response message indicates that the check was approved and deposited. The acquiring entity may in turn forward the response message to the original deposit point used by the prepaid cardholder.

The above mentioned transaction overview of conducting a deposit to a prepaid card account may be conducted using prepaid loading system that leverages an existing network infrastructure that provides a connection between different points of deposit and various issuing entities. For example depicts an exemplary prepaid loading system that includes a plurality of check deposit points e.g. an automated teller machine ATM a mobile device a self service kiosk and a point of sale device a plurality of acquiring entities e.g. a check guarantor entity and a cash transfer entity a central switch node and an issuing entity . As used herein an acquiring entity may include any entity that receives a prepaid card account deposit from a customer or user. The acquiring entity may also be configured to utilize an API to communicate with central switch node as described below . Examples of acquiring entities may include Chexar Networks Green Dot InComm FIS Western Union and other similar entities. Similarly as used herein an issuing entity may include an entity that is licensed by an entity associated with central switch node e.g. MasterCard International and may also be authorized to issue prepaid cards bearing the service marks of the central switch node entity e.g. MasterCard . Examples of issuing entities include bank entities e.g. Meta Bank Citibank The Bancorp Bank U.S. Bank etc. program manager entities e.g. program marketer entities credit card companies and the like.

In one embodiment a prepaid cardholder may utilize any of check deposit points to initiate the process of depositing the check amount to a prepaid card account. For example a prepaid cardholder may utilize a camera equipped on mobile device e.g. a cellular phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant a tablet computer or any other portable computing device to capture the image of a check to be deposited. The image of the check may then be wirelessly communicated from mobile device to check guarantor entity . For example mobile device may communicate with check guarantor entity using WiFi cellular wireless communications e.g. 3G 4G long term evolution LTE etc. or any other emerging wireless communications. In a similar manner ATM and self service kiosk may be utilized by a prepaid cardholder to provide a check image to check guarantor entity via either a wired or wireless manner. Although the following example and the description is directed to utilizing a check guarantor entity to facilitate a check deposit to a prepaid card account other methods for loading funds may also be conducted without departing from the scope of the present subject matter. For example a cash transfer entity e.g. such as Western Union may be used by a prepaid cardholder to initiate the depositing of cash funds to a prepaid card account.

In some embodiments check guarantor entity may include a server or other computer device that is configured to receive check images from any check deposit point e.g. any one of deposit points . Check guarantor entity may also be associated with a risk management entity e.g. Chexar Networks Inc. that is tasked with determining the validity of a received check image. For example check guarantor entity may utilize proprietary risk assessment and determination algorithms to ascertain whether a received check image should be approved or denied. If the check image is approved and or validated then check guarantor entity generates a message containing a request to load the check amount e.g. a load request to an appropriate prepaid card account. Otherwise check guarantor entity sends a notification message that indicates the rejection of the check image to the initiating deposit point.

In some embodiments a load request is included in a web based service message that is sent from an acquiring entity to central switch node . For example the load request may include a Payment To transaction request message that is communicated from a web portal used by the acquiring entity over an Internet connection in accordance with an application programming interface API . The API may be established and supported by central switch node . Utilization of the API enables central switch node to parse and process web based service messages e.g. hypertext transfer protocol HTTP extensible markup language XML messages send sent by acquiring entities such as check guarantor entity and cash transfer entity .

In some embodiments central switch node serves as a switching point that utilizes existing processing messages and transaction codes of an existing network infrastructure to facilitate the efficient deposit of funds into a prepaid card account. Exemplary components of central switch node are depicted in greater detail in . One non limiting example of a central switch node may include a processing hub or network element associated with a MasterCard rePower Load Network a service from MasterCard International Incorporated of Purchase N.Y. USA which facilitates the adding of money to eligible prepaid card accounts. Although depicts central switch node as a single network element central switch node may include a plurality of network elements a plurality of network components and or a network itself e.g. a MasterCard Network without departing from the scope of the present subject matter.

Referring to central switch node includes a processor a memory an API module and an issuer database . Processor may include a microprocessor central processing unit CPU or any other like hardware based processor unit. Memory may include one or more of the following random access memory RAM read only memory ROM optical read write memory cache memory magnetic read write memory flash memory and the like. Processor and memory may be used to execute and manage the operation of API module . In some embodiments API module may include a software or firmware based component that facilitates the receiving and processing of web based service messages e.g. messages containing load requests from acquiring entities as described herein. Similarly API module may be configured to parse the received web based service messages to extract a customer identifier or an account information identifier that can be used to query issuer database which may be configured to contain a plurality of entries that include a plurality of issuing entity addresses or identities mapped to a respective plurality of identifiers e.g. a bank identification number BIN . For example a BIN may be extracted from a received web based service message by API module and used to query and acquire an address e.g. an IP address of an appropriate issuing entity from database . Once the address of the issuing entity is determined API module may either convert the web based service message to a format recognizable by the destination issuing entity or generate a new compatible message containing the load request that is to be delivered to the issuing entity e.g. issuing entity as shown in . In one embodiment the converted message or the newly generated message containing the load request may be formatted by API module in accordance to standard ISO 8583.

Referring back to issuing entity may receive the load request from central switch node . Issuing entity may include a server or other computer device that is configured to manage prepaid card accounts and receive load requests associated with the prepaid card accounts. Issuing entity may be associated with a bank a credit card company or any other issuer processor capable of depositing funds to a hosted and or managed prepaid card account. Notably the load request from central switch node to issuing entity may be communicated over a pre existing architecture that utilizes existing processing and transaction codes. For example the load request received by issuing entity may be identified by a Payment Transaction processing code e.g. DE 3 28 that is known by both central switch node and issuing entity . Issuing entity may also be configured to approve load requests and post the check amount to a cardholder s prepaid account.

After approving and processing the load request the issuing entity immediately increased the prepaid card account balance and generates a response message containing the updated account balance information. In one embodiment issuing entity directs the response message to the acquiring entity i.e. check guarantor entity in this example via central switch node . Once the acquiring entity receives the response message the response message and or the load transaction information contained in the response message is communicated to the initial deposit point utilized by the prepaid cardholder. In one embodiment the load transaction information contained in the response message may include an electronic receipt detailing the amount loaded to the prepaid card account.

After the above load transaction phase is completed a check clearing phase and check settlement phase related to the deposited check amount may be conducted. Notably a clearance phase conducted by the check guarantor entity e.g. check guarantor entity and the Federal Reserve system may be executed in accordance with conventional methods. Similarly the settlement process may be conducted in a conventional matter among the check guarantor entity the central switch node and the issuing entity and an acquiring entity or member service provider that manages a settlement account that may be used to hold deposited cleared check funds. Although some relationship exists with the disclosed load transaction phase the manner in which the check clearing phase and the settlement phase is subsequently conducted is beyond the scope of the present subject matter.

In step a check loading process is initiated. In some embodiments a user of a mobile device may utilize an image capturing component e.g. a camera or video camera on the mobile device to capture the image of a check to be deposited. The image of the check to be deposited is then communicated either via a wireless or wired communications connection to a risk management entity for processing and approval.

In step the check image is approved. In some embodiments the check guarantor entity may process the check image using risk management algorithms and may determine that the associated check is approved for deposit.

In step a load request is generated. In some embodiments the check guarantor entity may be configured to generate a web based service message containing a load request e.g. a Payment To transaction request for depositing check funds into a prepaid card account upon approval of the received check image. The check guarantor entity may then route the web based service message containing the load request to a central switch node. An exemplary request message generated by an acquiring entity such as the check guarantor entity is depicted in Although illustrates an XML request message the request message may be generated in any web based protocol format or specification without departing from the scope of the present subject matter.

In step the load request is received. In some embodiments the central switch node receives via an API the web based service message containing the Payment To transaction request communicated by the check guarantor entity. Upon receiving the load request the central switch node may extract a BIN contained in the load request to query an issuer database to identify the address of a destination issuing entity.

In step the load request is routed to an issuing entity. In one embodiment the central switch node may route the Payment To transaction request to an appropriate issuing entity for approval by converting the web based service message into a format recognizable by the issuing entity. In another embodiment the central switch node may route the Payment To transaction request to an appropriate issuing entity for approval by generating a new message in a format recognizable by the issuing entity. In both instances the message routed to the issuing entity includes the load request.

In step the load request is approved. In some embodiments the issuer processor may identify process the load request which may be identifiable by the Payment Transaction processing code DE 3 28 . The issuer processor may approve the load request and deposit the associated monetary amount to the cardholder s prepaid account. After the approval processing is completed the issuing entity may generate a response message containing the cardholder s updated account balance.

In step the response message is received from the issuing entity. In some embodiments the response message containing the cardholder s updated account balance is received by the central switch node. An exemplary response message received from the issuing entity is depicted in . Although illustrates an XML response message the response message may be formatted in accordance to any protocol format or specification without departing from the scope of the present subject matter.

In step the response message is forwarded. In one embodiment the central switch node routes the response message to the card guarantor entity which in turn sends the response message and or the updated account balance information to the deposit point originally used by the prepaid cardholder.

It will be understood that various details of the subject matter described herein may be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

