---

title: Immunomodulating compositions and methods of use thereof
abstract: This invention is directed to β-1-6-glucans, compositions and devices comprising the same, and methods of use thereof in modulating immune responses. The β-1-6-glucans of certain embodiments of the invention are enriched for O-acetylated groups and/or conjugated to a solid support or linked to a targeting moiety.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09457047&OS=09457047&RS=09457047
owner: The General Hospital Corporation
number: 09457047
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130926
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 513 830 filed May 6 2009 and issued as U.S Pat. No. 8 580 253 and which is a National Phase Application of PCT International Application No. PCT US07 23307 International Filing Date Nov. 6 2007 claiming priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Applications 60 856 834 filed Nov. 6 2006 60 880 384 filed Jan. 16 2007 and 60 929 755 filed Jul. 11 2007 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made in whole or in part with government support under Grant Number GM035010 22 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The cell walls of fungi evoke a powerful immuno stimulatory response and have been proposed for use as potential anti infective and anti tumor drugs. Fungal cells can also activate dendritic cells and prime class II restricted antigen specific T cell responses. The majority of the cell wall 50 60 of pathogenic and non pathogenic fungi is composed of an inner layer of glucan 1 3 and 1 6 glucan covalently linked to a variety of cell surface mannoproteins Klis F. M. et al.et al. Med Mycol 39 Suppl 1 1 8 2001 Klis F. M. et al.et al. FEMS Microbiol Rev 26 239 56 2002 .

Recognition of glucans by macrophages is carried out mainly through Dectin 1 with the cooperation of TLRs including TLR2 Brown G. D. et al.et al. Nature 413 36 7 2001 . Dectin 1 activity is inhibited by 1 3 glucans and 1 6 glucans with the 1 3 glucan laminarins having the highest effect. However oligosaccharide microarray results show that Dectin 1 binds specifically to 1 3 glucans. Neutrophils are professional killers whose role in phagocytosis and killing of bacteria and fungi is well characterized. Neutropenic individuals are much more susceptible to bacterial and fungal infections with return to normal counts playing an important role in resolution of infection.

Neutrophils unlike macrophages require serum for optimal phagocytosis and killing. The main opsonic receptors are the complement receptor CR3 and the immunoglobulin binding receptor Fc R. CR3 has a lectin domain Brown G. D. et al. 19 311 5 2003 that mediates increased neutrophil motility towards a mixture of 1 3 glucan and 1 6 glucan PGG glucan Wakshull E. et al. 41 89 107 1999 . Although neutrophils express Dectin 1 Taylor P. R. et al. 169 3876 82 2002 its role in fungal recognition is not yet clear.

This invention provides in one embodiment a composition comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups. In one embodiment the glucan contains at least 25 by weight O acetylated glucan. In one embodiment the glucan is isolated or derived from lichen which in one embodiment is from the genus Umbilicariaceae. In one embodiment the glucan is isolated from a fungus. In one embodiment the glucan is isolated from yeast or in another embodiment the glucan is chemically synthesized or acetylated. In another embodiment the glucan is conjugated to a particle.

In another embodiment the composition comprises an adjuvant an antigen an immuno modulatory compound or a combination thereof.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of modulating an immune response in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups.

According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment modulating the immune response comprises stimulating said immune response which in one embodiment is an antigen specific response. In one embodiment the composition further comprises an immuno stimulatory compound or in another embodiment a chemotherapeutic compound. In another embodiment the immune response is directed against an infectious agent a cancer or other type of tumor a pre neoplastic lesion or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the immune response is not directed against a cancer or other type of tumor.

In another embodiment modulating the immune response comprises down modulating or abrogating the immune response. According to this aspect and in one embodiment the composition further comprises an immunosuppressant. In one embodiment the immune response is directed against an autoantigen or in another embodiment an allergen or in another embodiment the immune response is directed against transplanted tissue or in another embodiment transplanted cells. In one embodiment the composition is administered to a subject suffering from an autoimmune disorder. In one embodiment the autoimmune disorder is associated with excessive neutrophil activity neutrophil infiltration neutrophil degranulation etc. In one embodiment the disorder is a disorder that affects the skin the composition may be applied directly to the skin.

In another embodiment this invention provides a composition comprising 1 6 glucan wherein the glucan is conjugated to a particle. According to this aspect and in one embodiment the glucan is enriched for O acetylated groups and in one embodiment contains at least 25 by weight O acetylated glucan. In another embodiment the glucan is isolated or derived from a lichen or a yeast. In one embodiment the glucan is isolated or derived from Umbilicariaceae. In another embodiment the glucan is chemically synthesized or acetylated. In one embodiment the glucan is conjugated to a microsphere which in one embodiment has a diameter of about 0.1 15 microns.

In another embodiment the composition comprises an adjuvant an antigen an immuno modulatory compound or a combination thereof.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of modulating an immune response in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising 1 6 glucan wherein the glucan is conjugated to a solid support such as a particle.

In another embodiment the invention provides a particle comprising 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments the particle consists of at least 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 1 6 glucan by dry weight. In certain embodiments the particle consists essentially of 1 6 glucan. Optionally in certain embodiments the 1 6 glucan is enriched for O acetylated groups. The invention further provides a method of modulating the immune response of a mammalian subject comprising administering any of the afore mentioned particles or a composition containing any of the afore mentioned particles to the subject.

In one embodiment modulating the immune response comprises stimulating the immune response which in one embodiment is an antigen specific response. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the composition further comprises an immuno stimulatory compound or in another embodiment a chemotherapeutic compound. In one embodiment the immune response is directed against an infectious agent a cancer or other type of tumor a preneoplastic lesion or a combination thereof

In another embodiment modulating the immune response comprises downmodulating or abrogating the immune response. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the composition further comprises an immunosuppressant. In one embodiment the immune response is directed against an autoantigen or in another embodiment an allergen or in another embodiment transplanted tissue or in another embodiment transplanted cells. In one embodiment the composition is administered to a subject suffering from an autoimmune disorder. In one embodiment the autoimmune disorder is associated with excessive neutrophil activity neutrophil infiltration neutrophil degranulation etc. In one embodiment the disorder is a disorder that affects the skin the composition may be applied directly to the skin.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of treating delaying progression of prolonging remission of or reducing the incidence or severity of cancer in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising purified 1 6 glucan. In another embodiment this invention provides a method of treating delaying progression of prolonging remission of or reducing the incidence or severity of a tumor in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising purified 1 6 glucan.

In one embodiment the 1 6 glucan is enriched for O acetylated groups which in one embodiment contains at least 25 by weight O acetylated glucan. In another embodiment the composition further comprises an adjuvant an antigen a peptide an immuno stimulatory compound a chemotherapeutic or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the antigen is a tumor associated antigen or in another embodiment the peptide is derived from a tumor associated antigen.

In one embodiment the subject has a hyperplastic or preneoplastic lesion. In another embodiment the subject has cancer. In another embodiment the subject has not been diagnosed with cancer. In another embodiment the subject has not been diagnosed with a tumor.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of treating delaying progression of or reducing the incidence or severity of an infection in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising purified 1 6 glucan.

In one embodiment the 1 6 glucan is enriched for O acetylated groups which in one embodiment contains at least 25 by weight O acetylated glucan. In another embodiment the composition further comprises an adjuvant an antigen a peptide an immuno stimulatory compound a chemotherapeutic or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the antigen or peptide is derived from the source of the infection. In one embodiment the immuno stimulatory compound is a cytokine. In another embodiment the chemotherapeutic compound is an antibiotic or antiviral compound. In one embodiment the composition comprises a steroid. In another embodiment the composition comprises 1 3 glucans having 1 6 glucan branches also referred to as beta 1 3 1 6 glucan or beta 1 6 branched beta 1 3 glucan wherein at least some of the 1 6 glucan branches are enriched for O acetylated groups. In another embodiment the invention provides a composition comprising i 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups and ii beta 1 6 branched beta 1 3 glucan.

In one embodiment the invention provides a food supplement comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups. In one embodiment the invention provides a food product comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups. In another embodiment the invention provides a cosmetic composition comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of inducing expression of heat shock proteins in neutrophils the method comprising contacting neutrophils with a composition comprising 1 6 glucan optionally enriched for O acetylated groups. In another embodiment this invention provides a method of inducing phagocytosis and production of reactive oxygen species in neutrophils the method comprising contacting neutrophils with a composition comprising 1 6 glucan optionally enriched for O acetylated groups. In another embodiment this invention provides a method of inducing expression of heat shock proteins in neutrophils the method comprising contacting neutrophils with a composition comprising 1 6 glucan wherein at least 25 of the glucose units in at least 5 of the glucan molecules are enriched for O acetylated groups.

In any of the afore mentioned embodiments the contacting may occur either outside the body of a subject or within the body. In one embodiment cells which in some embodiments are neutrophils are removed from a subject contacted with the composition and then administered to the subject at a later time. In one embodiment the cells are contacted with the composition for a time sufficient to induce expression of heat shock proteins. In certain embodiments the cells are also contacted with serum or with one or more serum components. In one embodiment the subject receives immunosuppressive therapy prior to administration of the cells. For example a subject may be in need of immunosuppressive therapy for organ transplantation or other purposes e.g. chemotherapy or radiation therapy for cancer leukemia lymphoma or any type of tumor wherein the therapy would tend to render the individual immunocompromised. In one embodiment of the invention prior to administering the immunosuppressive therapy immune system cells are removed from the subject. The cells which in some embodiments are neutrophils or in other embodiments other immune system cells such as other professional antigen presenting cells such as macrophages dendritic cells monocytes NK cells B cells or others are contacted outside the body with a composition of this invention and are then returned to the subject a suitable period of time after the subject has received the immunosuppressive therapy. The suitable period of time could be for example after the therapy has been administered or its cytotoxic effects have diminished when the subject is at risk of or exhibits symptoms or signs of infection etc.

In one embodiment the invention provides a method of inducing expression of heat shock proteins in a subject comprising administering 1 6 glucan optionally enriched for O acetylated glucan to a subject in an amount sufficient to induce expression of heat shock proteins in cells e.g. neutrophils of the subject. In one embodiment the invention provides a method of inducing production of reactive oxygen species in a subject comprising administering 1 6 glucan optionally enriched for O acetylated glucan to a subject in an amount sufficient to induce production of reactive oxygen species by cells e.g. neutrophils of the subject. In one embodiment the invention provides a method of enhancing phagocytosis in as subject comprising administering 1 6 glucan optionally enriched for O acetylated glucan to a subject in an amount sufficient to enhance phagocytosis by cells e.g. neutrophils of the subject.

The invention further provides a coated material comprising a a substrate and b a compound or composition comprising 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments the 1 6 glucan is enriched for O acetylated glucan. In certain embodiments the coated material comprises a coating layer e.g. a gel or a film having the 1 6 glucan physically associated therewith. In certain embodiments the coating layer comprises a polymer e.g. an organic polymer in addition to the 1 6 glucan wherein the polymer is physically associated with the 1 6 glucan. In some embodiment the polymer is covalently bound to the 1 6 glucan while in other embodiments the polymer is mixed with or impregnated with the 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments the coating layer contains between 1 and 90 1 6 glucan by dry weight. In certain embodiments the coating layer contains at least 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 or 90 1 6 glucan by dry weight. In certain embodiments the coating layer comprises less than 10 20 30 40 50 1 6 glucan by dry weight.

A variety of different polymers are of use in the invention. Some suitable polymers are disclosed herein. In certain embodiments the polymer is biodegradable. In such embodiments the compound or composition may be released as the polymer degrades. In some embodiments the polymer is a poly pyranose poly hydroxyl acid poly lactone poly amino acid poly anhydride poly urethane poly orthoester poly phosphazine poly phosphoester poly lactic acid poly glycolic acid poly lactic co glycolic acid poly ether ester poly amino acid synthetic poly amino acid polycarbonate poly hydroxyalkanoate poly caprolactone or poly saccharide or a mixture or blend of any of the foregoing. In certain embodiments the polymer is a copolymer which in certain embodiments is a block copolymer wherein the subunits are subunits found in any of the foregoing polymers. In certain embodiments a polymer of use in the invention has an average molecular weight e.g. a number average or weight average molecular weight of at least 10 25 50 100 200 or 300 kD or a value falling within any intervening range. In certain embodiments a polymer of use in the invention is composed of on average between 100 and 10 000 monomeric subunits or any number of subunits falling within an intervening range. In certain embodiments the polymer is selected from polyethylene polypropylene polyvinyl chloride polyethylene terephthalate polystyrene and polycarbonate.

In one embodiment the substrate is a part of or in the form of a microparticle nanoparticle bandage suture catheter stent valve pacemaker implantable defibrillator conduit cannula appliance scaffold central line which may be a peripherally inserted central catheter PICC or PIC line pessary tube drain shunt trochar plug or other implant or medical or surgical device. In one embodiment the catheter is a pulmonary artery pericardial pleural urinary or intra abdominal catheter. In one embodiment the drain is a cerebrospinal fluid drain. In one embodiment the tube is a tracheostomy endotracheal or chest tube. In another embodiment the substrate is a part of or in the form of an implant a rod e.g. a spinal rod such as a posterior spinal rod a plate a screw washer wire pin internal fixation devices e.g. fracture fixation devices or other implantable orthopedic hardware known to those of skill in the art.

Also provided by the present invention are methods of using the implant or other device. The implants and devices may be used in any manner in which conventional counterparts e.g. counterparts not comprising and or coated with a compound or composition disclosed herein are used such methods being known in the art. In some embodiments a method of this invention is to be understood as comprising the treatment of any disease or condition with the implant or device of the invention. Also provided by the present invention are methods of delivering a compound or composition disclosed herein comprising a 1 6 glucan to a subject wherein the method comprises implanting or introducing a coated material implant or other device comprising a compound or composition of the invention into the body of the subject. Also provided by the present invention are methods of delivering a therapeutic agent not comprising a 1 6 glucan to a subject using an implant or other device e.g. a catheter implantable pump indwelling intravenous line etc. that comprises a 1 6 glucan.

In another embodiment this invention provides a composition comprising a 1 6 glucan physically associated with a targeting moiety for example one that specifically interacts with or attracts a phagocytic cell. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the targeting moiety specifically interacts with an infected cell a neoplastic cell a pre neoplastic cell a pathogen or a component thereof or is one that recruits phagocytic cells for example to sites of neoplasia preneoplasia infection etc. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the targeting moiety specifically interacts with an infected cell a neoplastic cell a pre neoplastic cell a pathogen or a component thereof. In one embodiment the glucan is enriched for O acetylated groups and in one embodiment the glucan contains at least 25 by weight O acetylated glucan. In another embodiment the glucan is isolated or derived from a lichen or a yeast which in one embodiment is Umbilicariaceae. In one embodiment the glucan is chemically synthesized or acetylated. In another embodiment the composition further comprises an adjuvant an antigen an immuno modulatory compound or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the phagocytic cell is a professional antigen presenting cell. In another embodiment the phagocytic cell is a neutrophil.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method modulating an immune response in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a 1 6 glucan physically associated with a targeting moiety for example wherein the targeting moiety specifically interacts with or attracts a phagocytic cell or comprises any embodiment as herein described.

In one embodiment modulating said immune response comprises stimulating said immune response which in one embodiment is an antigen specific response. In one embodiment the composition further comprises an immuno stimulatory compound or in another embodiment the composition further comprises a chemotherapeutic compound. In one embodiment the immune response is directed against an infectious agent a cancer a pre neoplastic lesion or a combination thereof and in another embodiment the immune response is complement dependent.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of treating delaying progression of or reducing the incidence or severity of an infection in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising a 1 6 glucan physically associated with a targeting moiety for example wherein the targeting moiety specifically interacts with or attracts a phagocytic cell or comprises any embodiment as herein described. In one embodiment the composition further comprises an adjuvant an antigen a peptide an immuno stimulatory compound a chemotherapeutic or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the antigen or peptide is derived from the source of the infection. In another embodiment the immuno stimulatory compound is a cytokine. In another embodiment the chemotherapeutic compound is an antibiotic or antiviral compound.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of stimulating or enhancing heat shock protein expression in a cell the method comprising contacting the cell with a composition comprising a 1 6 glucan physically associated with a targeting moiety for example wherein the targeting moiety specifically interacts with or attracts a phagocytic cell or comprises any embodiment as herein described.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of modulating an immune response in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising 1 6 glucan wherein said glucan is conjugated to a particle as herein described.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of treating delaying progression of prolonging remission of or reducing the incidence or severity of cancer in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising a glucan as herein described for example a purified 1 6 glucan a preparation enriched for O acetylated 1 6 glucan a 1 6 glucan conjugated to a particle or a 1 6 glucan linked to a targeting moiety or a combination thereof.

In another embodiment this invention provides a micelle comprising 1 6 glucan wherein said 1 6 glucan is optionally enriched for O acetylated glucan. In another embodiment this invention provides a composition comprising 1 6 glucan and a biodegradable polymer wherein said biodegradable polymer degrades to form biologically active salicylate or alpha hydroxy acid moieties and said 1 6 glucan is optionally enriched for O acetylated glucan. In another embodiment this invention provides for the use of any glucan any composition any micelle or combination thereof for any method as herein described.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if each individual publication or patent was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. In case of a conflict between the specification and an incorporated reference the specification shall control. Where number ranges are given in this document endpoints are included within the range. Furthermore it is to be understood that unless otherwise indicated or otherwise evident from the context and understanding of one of ordinary skill in the art values that are expressed as ranges can assume any specific value or subrange within the stated ranges optionally including or excluding either or both endpoints in different embodiments of the invention to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit of the range unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Where a percentage is recited in reference to a value that intrinsically has units that are whole numbers any resulting fraction may be rounded to the nearest whole number.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Glucans are polysaccharides found in all studied species of lichenized fungi. Partially O acetylated pustulans are typical of Umbilicariaceae and have been described for several species of such as and and

 1 6 glucans were found to induce specific gene expression in contrast to 1 3 glucans which activity may be useful in modulating immune responses. Without intending any limitation O acetylated 1 6 glucans were found to be useful in this context. Without intending any limitation 1 6 glucans were also found to induce phagocytosis and reactive oxygen species production by neutrophils. Reactive oxygen species are an important component of the killing mechanism in neutrophils and therefore this activity of 1 6 glucan may be useful in modulating immune responses. In one embodiment the invention provides a method of inducing production of reactive oxygen species in a subject comprising administering 1 6 glucan optionally enriched for O acetylated glucan to a subject in an amount sufficient to induce phagocytosis and production of reactive oxygen species by cells e.g. neutrophils of the subject. Reactive oxygen species ROS include molecules such as oxygen ions free radicals and peroxides both inorganic and organic. In certain embodiments they are small molecules and are highly reactive due to the presence of unpaired valence shell electrons. In one embodiment the ROS is superoxide.

This invention provides a composition comprising purified 1 6 glucan wherein the composition is in various embodiments of the invention a pharmaceutical composition a food or food product a food supplement or a cosmetic composition. The composition is in some embodiments distinct from compositions such as pustulan or preparations of fungal cell walls. In certain embodiments of the invention at least 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 95 98 99 or more of the glucan contained in the composition by weight is 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments between 20 and 50 of the glucan contained in the composition is 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments between 50 and 100 of the glucan contained in the composition is 1 6 glucan. In one embodiment of any of the compositions or methods of the invention the glucan contains from about 15 to about 30 by weight 1 6 glucan. In another embodiment of any of the compositions or methods of the invention the glucan contains from about 10 to about 35 by weight 1 6 glucan or in another embodiment from about 20 to about 50 by weight 1 6 glucan or in another embodiment from about 25 to about 60 by weight 1 6 glucan or in another embodiment from about 35 to about 80 by weight 1 6 glucan or in another embodiment from about 18 to about 35 by weight 1 6 glucan or in another embodiment from about 15 to about 75 by weight 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments of the invention weight refers to dry weight . In other embodiments weight refers to total weight. In certain embodiments of the invention the 1 6 glucan is processed. Such processing may comprise for example deacetylation treatment with enzymes that digest glucans other than 1 6 glucan limited digestion with enzymes that digest 1 6 glucan selection of particular molecular weight ranges etc. In certain embodiments processing comprises separation from other glucans e.g. glucans 1 3 glucans etc. In certain embodiments the processing comprises removing 1 6 glucan side chains from 1 3 glucans and optionally separating the 1 6 glucans side chains. In certain embodiments the composition comprises processed 1 6 glucan wherein the processed 1 6 glucan exhibits enhanced ability to desirably modulate the immune response relative to unprocessed glucan or relative to unprocessed 1 6 glucan.

This invention provides in one embodiment a composition comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups. In one embodiment of any of the compositions or methods of the invention the glucan contains at least 25 by weight O acetylated glucan. In one embodiment of any of the compositions or methods of the invention the glucan contains from about 15 to about 30 by weight O acetylated glucan. In another embodiment of any of the compositions or methods of the invention the glucan contains from about 10 to about 35 by weight O acetylated glucan or in another embodiment from about 20 to about 50 by weight O acetylated glucan or in another embodiment from about 25 to about 60 by weight O acetylated glucan or in another embodiment from about 35 to about 80 by weight O acetylated glucan or in another embodiment from about 18 to about 35 by weight O acetylated glucan or in another embodiment from about 15 to about 75 by weight O acetylated glucan. In other embodiments the glucan contains between about 75 and 100 by weight O acetylated glucan e.g. between 75 and 90 or between 90 and 100 by weight O acetylated glucan. In one embodiment of any of the compositions or methods of the invention the glucan contains approximately that percentage of O acetylated glucose units by weight or number in various embodiments of the invention that would result from digestion of a naturally occurring 1 6 glucan e.g. pustulan or any other 1 6 glucan mentioned herein with a 1 6 endoglucanase for a time sufficient to digest at least 90 by weight of the 1 6 glucan to oligosaccharides comprising 5 or fewer glucose units followed by i removal of those oligosaccharides comprising 5 or fewer glucose residues from the composition or ii isolation of a portion of the resulting composition having a molecular weight greater than 5 kD or in some embodiment greater than 10 20 30 50 or 100 kD.

In some embodiments the term enriched for O acetylated residues refers to the enhanced of O acetylated sites in individual glucose units within the glucan molecule enhanced of O acetylated glucose units within the glucan molecule or a combination thereof as compared to a native glucan molecule. In one embodiment reference to glucan preparations enriched by a particular weight percent for O acetylated glucan refers to preparations comprising an enhanced of O acetylated sites in individual glucose units within the glucan molecule an enhanced of O acetylated glucose units within the glucan molecule or a combination thereof as compared to a glucan molecule.

Glucans derived from different sources may comprise varying amounts of O acetylation in terms of O acetylated sites in individual glucose units O acetylated glucose units within the glucan molecule or a combination thereof. According to this aspect of the invention the term enriched for O acetylated glucan refers in some embodiments to enhanced O acetylation as described herein between the reference source from which the glucan is derived and may not represent an overall enrichment as compared to any glucan source.

In one embodiment the term enriched for O acetylated glucan refers to an enrichment of at least 25 by weight of the glucan chains which are O acetylated on at least one glucose unit or at least 25 of the glucose units present in the glucan in the composition are O acetylated or a combination thereof. In some embodiments at least 25 of the glucose units in at least 1 or in another embodiment at least 5 of the beta glucan chains are O acetylated. In other embodiments between 25 and 35 between 25 and 50 between 25 and 75 between 15 and 45 between 20 and 60 between 35 and 80 or others of the glucose units in at least 5 of the beta glucan chains are O acetylated etc. In other embodiments embodiments between 25 and 35 between 25 and 50 between 25 and 75 between 15 and 45 between 20 and 60 between 35 and 80 or others of the glucose units in at least 10 of the beta glucan chains or in another embodiment in at least 15 of the beta glucan chains or in another embodiment in at least 20 of the beta glucan chains are O acetylated.

In one embodiment the glucan is isolated or derived from a lichen which in one embodiment is from the genus Umbilicariaceae. In one embodiment the glucan is isolated from a fungus. In one embodiment the fungus is an edible mushroom inter alia maitake Chaga . In one embodiment the glucan is isolated from yeast or in another embodiment the glucan is chemically synthesized or acetylated. In one embodiment short synthetic 1 6 glucan polymers are linked through linkers e.g. diamine to form long polymers. In another embodiment the glucan is conjugated to a solid support.

Glucans are glucose containing polysaccharides found inter alia in fungal cell walls. glucans include one or more linkages between glucose subunits and glucans include one or more linkages between glucose subunits

 1 6 glucans occur frequently in fungi but are rarer outside fungi. The glucan used in accordance with the invention comprises 1 6 glucan. In some embodiments the 3 glucans are derived from Umbilicariaceae such as and and

In some embodiments the glucans are derived from such as . Other organisms from which glucans may be used include and . In some embodiments the glucans are chemically or enzymatically synthesized as is known in the art or in other embodiments the glucans are derived from any species producing the same and chemically or enzymatically altered for example to increase O acetylation of the molecule.

In some embodiments the glucans are fungal glucans. A fungal glucan will generally be obtained from a fungus but where a particular glucan structure is found in both fungi and non fungi e.g. in bacteria lower plants or algae then the non fungal organism may be used as an alternative source.

Full length native glucans are insoluble and have a molecular weight in the megadalton range. In some embodiments this invention provides soluble 1 6 glucan. In some embodiments this invention provides soluble O acetylated 1 6 glucan. Solubilization may be achieved by fragmenting long insoluble glucans in some embodiments. This may be achieved by for example hydrolysis or in some embodiments by digestion with a glucanase e.g. with a 1 3 glucanase or limited digestion with a 1 3 glucanase . In other embodiments glucans can be prepared synthetically for example and in some embodiments by joining monosaccharide building blocks. O acetylation of such glucans can readily be accomplished by methods known in the art. Such methods may include chemical and or enzymatic acetylation such as are known in the art.

There are various sources of fungal glucans. For instance pure glucans are commercially available e.g. pustulan Calbiochem is a 1 6 glucan purified from . glucans can be purified from fungal cell walls in various ways for example as described in Tokunaka et al. 1999 Carbohydr Res 316 161 172 and the product may be enriched for 1 6 glucan moieties or O acetylated 1 6 glucan moieties by methods as are known in the art.

One of ordinary skill in the art will be able to identify or select appropriate methods to enrich for 1 6 glucan moieties and or for O acetylated 1 6 glucan. In one embodiment O acetylation of beta glucan is performed chemically. For example polysaccharides 50 mg are dried in a speed vac centrifuge and resuspended in 1.5 ml of acetic anhydride Mallindcrockdt . After resuspension a few crystals of 4 dimethylaminopyridine Avocado Research Chemist Ltd are added as catalyst. The reaction is allowed to proceed at room temperature for 5 20 or 120 minutes and then stopped with 2 volumes of water. Afterwards the samples are dialyzed overnight against water. It will be appreciated that this process could be varied or scaled up as evident to one of skill in the art. In other embodiments methods for separating O acetylated 1 6 glucan include one or more of the following steps which could be performed in various orders a separation based on higher hydrophobicity such as binding to any hydrophobic matrix resin b separation based on digestion with a suitable endo or exo glucanase or combination thereof wherein the O acetylated 1 6 glucan is resistant to digestion c affinity separation using antibodies or other moieties that bind to 1 6 glucan or to O acetyl groups thereon d separation based on molecular weight. In one embodiment 1 6 glucan is digested with an enzyme that digests unacetylated and or lightly acetylated 1 6 glucan. The resulting material is separated based on size or molecular weight and a portion comprising heavily acetylated glucan is isolated. In some embodiments 1 6 glucan preparations are obtained digested and O acetylated oligosaccharides are separated or in another embodiment isolated and used in the preparation of new compositions. Such compositions represent embodiments of the 1 6 glucan preparations enriched for O acetylated residues of this invention.

It is to be understood that the products of any process for preparing enriched O acetylated 1 6 glucan preparations are to be considered as part of this invention.

In some embodiments the glucans for use in the compositions preparations micelles and or according to the methods of this invention may comprise structural modifications not present in native glucan preparations. Such modifications may comprise O acetylation as described herein. In other embodiments such modifications may comprise methylation alkylation alkoylation sulfation phosphorylation lipid conjugation or other modifications as are known to one skilled in the art. In some embodiments the modification comprises modification e.g. esterification with an acid such as formic succinic citric acid or other acid known in the art.

In some embodiments lipid conjugation to any or all free hydroxyl groups may be accomplished by any number of means known in the art for example as described in Drouillat B et al. Pharm Sci. 1998 January 87 1 25 30 B. N. A. Mbadugha et al. Org. Lett. 5 22 4041 4044 2003.

In some embodiments methylation may be accomplished and verified by any number of means known in the art for example as described in Mischnick et al. 1994 Carbohydr. Res. 264 293 304 Bowie et al. 1984 Carbohydr. Res. 125 301 307 Sherman and Gray 1992 Carbohydr. Res. 231 221 235 Stankowski and Zeller 1992 Carbohydr. Res. 234 337 341 Harris P. J. et al. 1984 Carbohydr. Res. 127 59 73 Carpita N. C. Shea E. M. 1989 Linkage structure of carbohydrates by gas chromatography mass spectrometry GC MS of partially methylated alditol acetates. In Analysis of Carbohydrates by GLC and MS Biermann C. J. McGinnis G. D. eds pp. 157 216. CRC Press Boca Raton Fla.

In some embodiments methylation can be confirmed by GLC of further derived TMS ethers acetates or other esters coupled MS or digestion to monosaccharides de O methylation and analysis by derivatization and GLC MS for example as described in Pazur 1986 Carbohydrate Analysis A Practical Approach IRL Press Oxford pp. 55 96 Montreuil et al. 1986 Glycoproteins. In M. F. Chaplin and J. F. Kennedy eds. Carbohydrate Analysis a Practical Approach IRL Press Oxford pp. 143 204 Sellers et al. 1990 Carbohydr. Res. 207 C1 C5 O Neill et al. 1990 Pectic polysaccharides of primary cell walls. In P.M. Dey ed. Methods in Plant Biochemistry Volume 2 Carbohydrates Academic Press London pp. 415 441 Stephen et al. 1990 Methods in Plant Biochemistry Volume 2 Carbohydrates Academic Press London pp. 483 522 or Churms 1991 CRC Handbook of Chromatography. Carbohydrates Volume II CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. USA .

In some embodiments phosphorylation optionally including the introduction of other modifications and verification of the obtained product may be accomplished by means well known to those skilled in the art see for example Brown D. H. Biochem. Biophys. Acta 7 487 1951 Roseman S. and Daffner I. Anal. Chem. 28 1743 1956 Kornberg A. and Horecker . B. L. in Methods in enzymology Vol. I Academic Press New York 1955 p. 323 U.S. Pat. No. 4 818 752.

In some embodiments glucan sulfation and verification of the obtained product may be accomplished by any of the means well known in the art for example as described in Alban S. and Franz G. 2001 Biomacromolecules 2 354 361 Alban et al. 1992 Arzneimittelforschung 42 1005 1008 or Alban S. et al. 2001 . Carbohydr. Polym. 47 267 276.

Also provided by the invention is a micelle comprising 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments the micelle comprises a complex composed of surfactant molecules comprising 1 6 glucan which may be dispersed in a liquid colloid. In certain embodiments the surfactant molecules are amphilic i.e. they contain both hydrophobic groups their tails and hydrophilic groups their heads . In certain embodiments the hydrophilic component comprises 1 6 glucan optionally modified according to any one or more ways described herein. In certain embodiments a micelle in aqueous solution forms an aggregate with the hydrophilic head regions in contact with surrounding solvent sequestering the hydrophobic tail regions in the micelle center. The micelle may be globular and roughly spherical in shape but in certain embodiments the micelle is an ellipsoid cylinder or bilayer. In some embodiments the micelle is a polymeric micelle such as those described in U.S. Pub. No. 20020035217. In some embodiments the micelle encapsulates an active agent e.g. a hydrophobic molecule. Exemplary active agents include anti infective agents such as anti bacterial anti viral anti fungal anti parasite agents chemotherapeutic agents for treatment of cancer immunostimulatory compound antigen adjuvant etc.

The invention further provides 1 6 glucan that is modified by conjugating a lipid thereto wherein the modification in some embodiments allows for creation of a micelle comprising 1 6 glucan having the lipid attached thereto. The lipid may be a straight chain or branched optionally substituted hydrocarbon. In some embodiments the lipid comprises a fatty acid. In some embodiments the lipid e.g. fatty acid contains between 4 and 26 or between 4 and 40 carbon atoms.

Also provided by the present invention is a particle comprising 1 6 glucan covalently or noncovalently linked to a particle comprising or consisting essentially of yeast glucan. Also provided is 1 6 glucan comprising a reactive moiety able to react with a functional group of a yeast glucan to form a covalent bond. The yeast glucan may comprise 1 6 glucan 1 3 glucan other glucans or a combination thereof.

Also provided by the invention is a composition comprising 1 6 glucan and a biodegradable polymer. In some embodiments the biodegradable polymer comprises biologically active subunits. The term biodegradable refers to a material which is degraded i.e. broken down into smaller fragments in the biological environment of the cell or subject in which it is found. In one embodiment biodegradation involves the degradation of a polymer into its component subunits via for example enzymatic or non enzymatic hydrolysis digestion etc. In one embodiment biodegradation may involve cleavage of bonds whether covalent or otherwise in the polymer backbone. In another embodiment biodegradation may involve cleavage of a bond whether covalent or otherwise internal to a side chain or one that connects a side chain to the polymer backbone. In some embodiments the degradation products are metabolizable by the subject. In some embodiments the degradation products are usable by the subject for synthesis of larger biomolecules. In some embodiments the degradation products are excreted or otherwise eliminated by the subject. In some embodiments the polymer and or its degradation products are biocompatible in that they are substantially nontoxic and do not produce an unacceptable inflammatory or immune response when administered or otherwise introduced into the body of a subject in amounts consistent with the present invention.

In some embodiments a biodegradable polymer encapsulating the glucans of this invention comprise particles of this invention. In some embodiments such polymers may comprise poly lactic co glycolic acid PLGA hydrophobic bioabsorbable polymers such as polyglycolide polylactide D L DL polydioxanones polyestercarbonates polyhydroxyalkonates polycaprolactone polylactones polyethylene glycol hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose phthalate cellulose acetate phthalate and the Ludragit R L and E series of polymers and copolymer mixtures thereof and copolymers made from two or more precursors of the above prepared by any means known in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 060 299 6 998 115 6 048 551 incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The term biologically active agent includes therapeutic agents that provide a therapeutically desirable effect when administered to an animal e.g. a mammal such as a human in effective amounts it being understood that not all subjects will benefit from the agent. In some embodiments the polymer is a polyanhydride which optionally comprises biologically active salicylates and alpha hydroxy acids. Degradation of the polymer releases said biologically active salicylates and or alpha hydroxy acids. In some embodiments the 1 6 glucan is covalently or noncovalently attached to the biodegradable polymer. Suitable polymers and methods for manufacture thereof are described e.g. in U.S. Publication No. 20030035787 and 20050053577. In certain embodiments the polymer comprises between 10 and 1000 or between 50 and 500 or about 100 monomers. In one embodiment the polymer is Polyaspirin . Methods of forming a compound in which a 1 6 glucan is covalently linked to the polymer will be evident to one of skill in the art. The 1 6 glucan could be covalently attached to a monomer prior to polymerization or could be conjugated to a functional group of the polymer following polymerization. In some embodiments the 1 6 glucan is covalently attached via a linking group. Exemplary linking groups are described in U.S. Pub. No. 20050053577 and others will be evident to one of skill in the art.

In some embodiments the composition comprises a particle comprising 1 6 glucan and the biodegradable polymer. In some embodiments the particle is coated with or impregnated with 1 6 glucan. In some embodiments the 1 6 glucan is covalently attached to the polymer. In some embodiments the composition coats an implant or other medical or surgical device as described elsewhere herein.

Further provided are methods of administering a 1 6 glucan and a biologically active salicylate or alpha hydroxy acid to a subject the method comprising administering a composition comprising 1 6 glucan and a biodegradable polymer comprising said biologically active salicylates and or alpha hydroxy acids to the subject or implanting or introducing a device comprising said polymer and said biologically active salicylates and or alpha hydroxy acids into a subject.

In some embodiments this invention provides low molecular weight glucans having a molecular weight of less than 100 kDa e.g. less than 80 70 60 50 40 30 25 20 or 15 kDa . In some embodiments this invention provides oligosaccharides e.g. containing 85 or fewer e.g. 85 84 83 82 81 80 79 78 77 76 75 74 73 72 71 70 69 68 67 66 65 64 63 62 61 60 59 58 57 56 55 54 53 52 51 50 49 48 47 46 45 44 43 42 41 40 39 38 37 36 35 34 33 32 31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 glucose monosaccharide units.

In some embodiments of any of the compositions particles coated materials or devices of the invention comprising 1 6 glucan the 1 6 glucan comprises or consists essentially of a low molecular weight glucan. In some embodiments of any method of the invention in which 1 6 glucan is utilized the 1 6 glucan comprises or consists essentially of a low molecular weight glucan. Optionally at least some of the low molecular weight 1 6 glucan in any embodiment of the invention is enriched for O acetylated groups.

A common technique in determining linkage type and structure in glucans is carbon 13 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy C NMR . The number and relative intensities of C signals in a given spectrum can be used to determine linkage configurations and positions in glucan polymers. For example the chemical shifts signals of carbon atoms engaged in the glycosidic bond are shifted strongly downfield up to 9 ppm compared to the corresponding unlinked carbons.

This invention provides in some embodiments a composition comprising 1 6 glucan wherein the glucan is conjugated to a solid support. In one embodiment the solid support is a bead or particle.

In one embodiment the beads or particles to which glucans are conjugated comprise denatured proteins e.g. human serum albumin Benacerraf et al. 1957 Brit. J. Exp. Path 38 35 insoluble materials e.g. carbon black silica silicon dioxide polystyrene latex metal oxides e.g. titanium oxides iron oxides and India ink i.e. suspension of colloidal carbon particles described in Reichard and Filkins 1984 The Reticuloendothelial System A Comprehensive Treatise pp. 73 101 Plenum Press and references therein hydrogels for example as described in US Patent Publication No. 20050191361 sepharose or agarose beads or microparticles. In some embodiments the beads or microparticles are formed from materials that are biodegradable and non toxic e.g. a poly hydroxy acid such as poly lactide co glycolide a polyhydroxybutyric acid a polyorthoester a polyanhydride a polycaprolactone etc. . The beads or particles of the present invention may comprise red blood cells RBCs that have been purged of their cytoplasm known as Ghost RBCs bacteria as bacteria are cleared by the RES see e.g. Benacerraf and Miescher 1960 Ann NY Acad Sci 88 184 195 cell fragments liposomes bacteriophages bacteriophage fragments and viral capsids devoid of the viral nucleic acids e.g. hepatitis B virus surface antigen particles etc.

In one embodiment conjugation to the particle or solid support is via chemically cross linking the particle solid to the glucans of this invention. The chemistry of cross linking is well known in the art. The nature of the crosslinking reagent used to conjugate the glucan and the solid e.g. bead or particle can be any suitable reagent known in the art. It is to be understood that any suitable crosslinking agent may be used with care taken that the activity of the glucan is preserved.

In some embodiments the glucan is linked to a targeting moiety as further herein described. In some embodiments the term conjugate or linked and grammatical forms thereof refer to any association between the indicated molecules. In some embodiments such linkage is covalent and in some embodiments such linkage is non covalent. In some embodiments such linkage is direct and in some embodiments is via a linker molecule.

In some embodiments such linkage will be via any means known in the art and as described herein. For example and in some embodiments linkage may be via amide formation urethane imine or disulfide linkage between the respective molecules or between a linker moiety with the respective molecules. It is to be understood that there is no limitation with respect to the chemical backbone of the linker molecules. In some embodiments the linker backbone may be biocompatible non immunogenic and or water soluble. In some embodiments the linker may comprise poly ethylene glycol PEG further comprising active chemical groups which facilitate linkage as herein described.

In some embodiments other linkers which may readily be used for such prupose comprise alkanes polyesters polyimines poly acids proteins peptides DNA RNA other glucans lipids saccharides polysaccharides carbon nanotubes dendrimers or solid particles such as for example polymers metals salts inorganic materials etc.

In certain embodiments the size of the particle is appropriate for ingestion by macrophages neutrophils or both. The particle can have any of the compositions described herein. In certain embodiments the invention provides a population of particles wherein at least 50 of the particles have a size appropriate for ingestion by macrophages neutrophils or both. The invention provides populations of particles wherein at least 50 75 or 90 of the particles fall within a desired size range. In certain embodiments the desired size ranges within 10 20 30 40 or 50 of a given value. The value may be e.g. 20 nm 100 nm 500 nm 1 5 10 20 50 microns etc. The particles in any of these embodiments can have any of the compositions described herein. The population can comprise particles having different compositions in any ratio. The populations of particles may be used for any of the purposes described herein and methods for such use are an aspect of this invention.

Cross linking reagents that can be used include but are not limited to p Azidobenzoyl hydrazide N 4 p Azidosalicyclamido butyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionamide Bis beta 4 azidosalicylamido ethyl disulfide 1 4 bismaleimidyl 2 3 dihydroxybutane 1 6 Bismaleimidohexane 1 5 Difluoro 2 4 dinitrobenzene Dimethyl adipimidate 2HCl Dimethyl suberimidate 2HCl Dimethyladipodimidate 2HCl Dimethyl pimelimidate 2HCl Disuccinimidyl glutarate Disuccinimidyl tartrate 1 Ethyl 3 3 Dimethylanonopropyl Carbodiimide Hydrochloride N Hydroxy succinimidyl 4 Azidosalicylic acid Sulfosuccinimdyl 2 7 azido 4 methyl coumarin 3 acetamidomethyl 1 3 aminopropionate N Succinimidyl 4 iodoacetylaminobenzoate N Succinimidyl 3 2 pyridylthio propionate and Succinimidyl 6 3 2 pyridylathio propionamide hexanoate Pierce Chemical Co. Rockford Ill. In one embodiment the glucans are derivatized as described in Nature Methods Vol 2 No. 11 p. 845 2005 or a similar approach. In one embodiment glucans are derivatized with a moiety that provides a free reactive primary amine using a reagent such as 2 6 diaminopyridine DAP . The Schiff base azomethine can be reduced e.g. by sodium cyanoborohydride to a stable secondary amine. In one embodiment the derivatized glucan is then reacted with an N hydroxysuccinimide NHS ester such as NHS biotin.

Other crosslinking reagents comprise aldehyde imide cyano halogen carboxyl activated carboxyl anhydride and maleimide functional groups. In some embodiments the cross linking reagent may comprise heterobifunctional crosslinking reagents such as ABH M2C2H MPBH and PDPH Pierce Chemical Co. Rockford Ill. . See e.g. Hermanson G. T. 1996 . Bioconjugate Techniques Academic Press Inc. for further discussion of cross linking methods and reagents.

In another embodiment conjugation of the glucan to the beads or particles may be via use of beads comprising functional groups which can be conjugated according to methods as disclosed by e.g. Brumeanu et al. Genetic Engineering News Oct. 1 1995 p. 16 .

It is also possible to conjugate the beads particles solid targeting moiety to the glucan by non covalent means. One convenient way for achieving non covalent conjugation comprises utilizing antibodies to the glucan which are covalently or non covalently attached to the particle bead etc. In another embodiment non covalent conjugation is achieved using biotin avidin where avidin should be understood to refer to any form of avidin . For example avidin coated or conjugated beads may be contacted with glucan derivatized with a biotin moiety.

In some embodiments preparation of the conjugated glucans includes purification of the final conjugate substantially free of unconjugated reactants. Purification may be achieved by affinity gel filtration hydrophobic chromatography tangential ultrafiltration diafiltration or ion exchange chromatography based on the properties of either component of the conjugate. For example purification may reduce the amount of one or more of the unconjugated reactants e.g. glucan or solid support to 10 or less 5 or less or 1 or less of the amount of unconjugated reactant that was originally present.

In some embodiments the invention provides a particle comprising 1 6 glucan which in some embodiments is enriched for O acetylated groups. In some embodiments the particle comprises at least 50 1 6 glucan by weight. In some embodiments the 1 6 glucan is homogeneously distributed in the particle. It is to be understood that the particles comprising 1 6 glucan of this invention may in turn encompass any embodiment appropriate thereto as described herein.

In one embodiment the conjugated glucan is enriched for O acetylated groups and in one embodiment contains at least 25 by weight O acetylated glucan or any related embodiment as herein described. In one embodiment the glucan is conjugated to a microsphere which in one embodiment has a diameter of about 1 100 microns. In one embodiment the microsphere has a diameter which ranges from about 10 50 microns. In another embodiment the microsphere has a diameter which ranges from about 5 40 microns. In another embodiment the diameter ranges from 0.1 to 5 microns. In another embodiment the diameter ranges from 0.5 to 1 micron. In another embodiment the particle or bead is in the nanometer range e.g. 100 to 500 nm.

In one embodiment the term bead or particle or solid support refers to a material which is spherical. In another embodiment term bead or particle or solid support refers to a material which is non spherical. In one embodiment non spherical beads or particles possess a longest axis or longest dimension between any two points on their surface within any of the afore mentioned ranges. In one embodiment the dimensions of the particle e.g. diameter are selected to promote phagocytosis of the particles by phagocytic cells such as neutrophils macrophages or dendritic cells.

In one embodiment the term bead or particle or solid support refers to any solid or gelled or sol gel based material to which the glucan can be adhered of a size and composition which can be taken up by phagocytic cells.

In one embodiment the compositions of this invention comprise or methods of this invention make use of beads or particles having dimensions and surface density of glucan e.g. 1 6 glucan optionally enriched for O acetylated groups that is efficiently phagocytosed by antigen presenting cells as compared e.g. with particles having different dimensions and or surface density of glucan.

In one embodiment conjugation to the solid support may be accomplished with a direct linkage via reaction with solid supports comprising a reactive functional group.

Linking chemistries to bind the linker to the 1 6 glucan and or to bind the linker to the antibody include inter alia amide formation urethane imine or disulfide linkage.

The chemical backbone for the linker molecules is not limited. In one embodiment the backbone is biocompatible non immunogenic and water soluble. In one embodiment the linker is polyethylene glycol PEG . Other linkers include inter alia alkanes polyesters polyimines poly acids proteins peptides DNA RNA glucans lipids saccharides polysaccharides carbon nanotubes or dendrimers. In one embodiment the linker is a solid particle which may be inter alia a polymer a metal a salt a natural material or an inorganic material such as silica.

Linkages via a linker group may be made using any known procedure for example the procedures described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 642 363 4 882 317 or 4 695 624. A useful type of linkage is an adipic acid linker which may be formed by coupling a free NHgroup on an aminated glucan with adipic acid using for example diimide activation and then coupling a protein to the resulting saccharide adipic acid intermediate. Another type of linkage is a carbonyl linker which may be formed by reaction of a free hydroxyl group of a modified glucan with CDI followed by reaction with a protein to form a carbamate linkage. Other linkers include B propionamido nitrophenyl ethylamine haloacyl halides glycosidic linkages 6 aminocaproic acid ADH C4 to C12 moieties etc.

In another embodiment the invention provides a particle comprising 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments the particle consists of at least 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 1 6 glucan by dry weight. In certain embodiments the particle consists essentially of 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments the particle consists essentially of 1 6 glucan exclusive of any solvent component such as water. In certain embodiments the 1 6 glucan is enriched for O acetylated groups. In certain embodiments the particle contains less than 50 40 30 20 10 or 5 1 3 glucan by dry weight. The invention further provides a composition containing any of the afore mentioned particles comprising or consisting essentially of 1 6 glucan optionally enriched for O acetylated groups. The composition may further contain a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or adjuvant. The invention further provides a method of modulating the immune response of a mammalian subject comprising administering any of the afore mentioned particles or a composition containing any of the afore mentioned particles to the subject. The particle can be prepared using any method known in the art. The particles can be milled or sieved to achieve a desired size. In certain embodiments the 1 6 glucan is distributed evenly or homogeneously in the particle. In certain embodiments distributed evenly means that the 1 6 glucan is not encapsulated within a different material does not simply coat the surface of a particle comprised of a different material or is not covalently or non covalently attached to the surface of a particle composed of a different material. Instead in certain embodiments the 1 6 glucan optionally mixed with another material is formed into a particle such that the 1 6 glucan is located throughout substantially the entire volume of the particle. It will be appreciated that the density of the 1 6 glucan may vary but will generally vary gradually and continuously throughout the particle rather than abruptly.

In another embodiment this invention provides a composition comprising a 1 6 glucan physically associated with a targeting moiety which in one embodiment specifically interacts with or attracts a phagocytic cell.

According to this aspect and in one embodiment the term physically associated refers to the formation of a covalent linkage. In one embodiment the term physically associated refers to strong non covalent linkages. In some embodiments such linkages may be effected by any means known to one skilled in the art including some exemplified and described hereinbelow. Linking agents may be readily applied for such a purpose and are commercially available in some embodiments.

The 1 6 glucan is linked to a targeting moiety according to this aspect of the invention and in an embodiment thereof. Such a targeting moiety may comprise any molecule which specifically interacts with a desired target which in one embodiment promotes interaction with a phagocytic cell or in some embodiments attracts or recruits a phagocytic cell.

In some embodiments the targeting moiety is for a particular phagocytic cell type or in some embodiments for a particular phagocytic cell for example an infected cell or in some embodiments a neoplastic cell or in some embodiments a preneoplastic cell. In some embodiments for example targeting of a virally infected cell may be accomplished via linkage of the glucan with a viral co receptor. In some embodiments targeting moieties may include integrins or class II molecules of the MHC which may be up regulated on infected cells such as professional antigen presenting cells.

In some embodiments targeting of an infected cell results in enhanced therapeutic responses to infection in the subject. For example and in some embodiments targeting the infected cell enhances phagocytosis and or cytotoxic responses to the pathogen or in some embodiments enhances complement mediated lysis of the pathogen. In some embodiments targeting of the infected cell enhances the immune response to the pathogen.

In some embodiments the targeting moiety specifically interacts with a neoplastic or pre neoplastic cell as described herein and comprising any embodiment thereof. In some embodiments the use of a 1 6 glucan linked to a targeting moiety which targets a neoplastic or preneoplastic cell promotes host anticancer responses. In some embodiments such targeting promotes tumor cell lysis or in some embodiments enhances host antitumor responses.

In some embodiments and without limitation use of the glucans 1 6 glucan linked to a targeting moiety and or compositions of this invention are suitable inter alia for treating tumors that are resistant to complement mediated lysis.

In some embodiments and without limitation use of the glucans 1 6 glucan linked to a targeting moiety and or compositions of this invention target the polysaccharide to an antigen expressed specifically on cancer cells and thereby enhance complement mediated lysis of the cells.

In some embodiments targeting to neoplastic or pre neoplastic cells or tissue or tumors can be accomplished by targeting a tumor antigen as herein described. In some embodiments such cells may express adrenomedullin receptors ADMR a calcitonin receptor like receptor CRLR CD 117 or any combination of tumor associated antigens as herein described.

In one embodiment the targeting moiety is a peptide which binds to an underglycosylated mucin 1 protein. Mucin 1 MUC 1 is a transmembrane molecule which is overexpressed on the cell surface and in intracellular compartments of almost all human epithelial cell adenocarcinomas including more than 90 of human breast cancers ovarian pancreatic colorectal lung prostate colon and gastric carcinomas. Expression in an underglycosylated form which exposes an immunogenic epitope that is normally masked has been demonstrated in non epithelial cancer cell lines for example astrocytoma melanoma and neuroblastoma as well as in hematological malignancies such as multiple myeloma and some B cell non Hodgkin lymphomas constituting more than 50 of all cancers in humans.

According to this aspect and in one embodiment by targeting cells expressing adrenomedullin receptors or mucin 1 expressing cells with the linked glucans of this invention lung pancreas ovary breast and other related cancers may be treated. In some embodiments by targeting cells expressing CRLR and or CD117 with the linked glucans of this invention vascular tumors gliomas and or other related cancers may be treated.

In some embodiments reference herein to a targeting moiety is to be understood to encompass an antibody or fragment thereof as described herein a naturally occurring peptide ligand for the referenced receptor or a modified form thereof such as for example a truncation product. In some embodiments reference herein to a targeting moiety is to be understood to encompass artificial peptides small molecules and the like.

In some embodiments many monoclonal antibodies mAb are used in various therapies which comprise for example Alemtuzumab Campath Bevacizumab Avastin Cetuximab Erbitux Gemtuzumab Mylotarg Ibritumomab Zevalin Panitumumab Vectibix Rituximab Rituxan Tositumomab Bexxar Trastuzumab Herceptin Palivizumab Synagis . Any of these mAbs may be linked to a glucan of this invention or comprise a composition as herein described and comprise a targeting moiety or immune stimulating compound for use in any of the methods as described herein. It is to be understood that any monoclonal antibody or other targeting moiety or immune stimulating compound may be linked to the glucans of this invention or comprise compositions of this invention and such materials are to be considered as part of this invention and encompassed for use in any methods of this invention.

In some embodiments this invention provides for the use of the glucans 1 6 glucans linked to a targeting moiety and or compositions of this invention as described herein including any embodiment thereof as a means to determine neoplastic or preneoplastic cell or tissue responsiveness to a treatment regimen. In some embodiments such method includes obtaining a tumor sample from the subject or biopsy material containing the neoploastic or preneoplastic cells and assessing the sensitivity or resistance of the cells to in vitro lysis and or determining the level of expression and or secretion of an endogenous complement control protein.

In some embodiments the tumor cell expresses or overexpresses e.g. relative to a normal cell of the cell type or tissue of origin of that cell an endogenous complement control protein such as complement receptor 1 CR1 or CD35 decay accelerating factor DAF or CD55 membrane cofactor protein MCP of CD46 complement factor H 1H or FHL 1 and or C4b binding protein C4BP .

In some embodiments this invention provides for the use of the glucans 1 6 glucans linked to a targeting moiety and or compositions of this invention as described herein including any embodiment thereof as a means to target pathological vasculature such as for example atherosclerotic vasculature or in some embodiments targeting pathologic neo vasculature such as tumor associated neovasculature for purposes of enhancing elimination of such vasculature.

According to this aspect of the invention and in some embodiments the targeting moiety comprises inter alia an antibody or antibody fragment or ligand specifically interacting with a component of such vasculature for example an agent specifically interacting with VEGF tissue factor a clotting factor vascular cell adhesion molecules integrins selectins or any other marker expressed on or at the surface of endothelial cells.

In one embodiment the targeting moiety is a peptide an antibody an antibody fragment a receptor Protein A Protein G Protein L biotin avidin streptavidin a metal ion chelate an enzyme cofactor a nucleic acid or a ligand.

In some embodiments such a targeting moiety may comprise an antibody or antibody fragment. In some embodiments such an antibody or antibody fragment will specifically interact with a desired target as herein described for example by interacting with a phagocyte such that linkage of said antibody or fragment with the glucan does not inhibit such interaction.

In some embodiments the term antibody refers to intact molecules as well as functional fragments thereof such as Fab F ab 2 and Fv that are capable of specifcially interacting with a desired target as described herein for example binding to phagocytic cells. In some embodiments the antibody fragments comprise 

 1 Fab the fragment which contains a monovalent antigen binding fragment of an antibody molecule which can be produced by digestion of whole antibody with the enzyme papain to yield an intact light chain and a portion of one heavy chain 

 2 Fab the fragment of an antibody molecule that can be obtained by treating whole antibody with pepsin followed by reduction to yield an intact light chain and a portion of the heavy chain two Fab fragments are obtained per antibody molecule 

 3 Fab the fragment of the antibody that can be obtained by treating whole antibody with the enzyme pepsin without subsequent reduction F ab 2 is a dimer of two Fab fragments held together by two disulfide bonds 

 4 Fv a genetically engineered fragment containing the variable region of the light chain and the variable region of the heavy chain expressed as two chains and

 5 Single chain antibody SCA a genetically engineered molecule containing the variable region of the light chain and the variable region of the heavy chain linked by a suitable polypeptide linker as a genetically fused single chain molecule.

Methods of making these fragments are known in the art. See for example Harlow and Lane Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York 1988 incorporated herein by reference .

In some embodiments the antibody fragments may be prepared by proteolytic hydrolysis of the antibody or by expression in or mammalian cells e.g. Chinese hamster ovary cell culture or other protein expression systems of DNA encoding the fragment.

Antibody fragments can in some embodiments be obtained by pepsin or papain digestion of whole antibodies by conventional methods. For example antibody fragments can be produced by enzymatic cleavage of antibodies with pepsin to provide a 5S fragment denoted F ab 2. This fragment can be further cleaved using a thiol reducing agent and optionally a blocking group for the sulfhydryl groups resulting from cleavage of disulfide linkages to produce 3.5S Fab monovalent fragments. Alternatively an enzymatic cleavage using pepsin produces two monovalent Fab fragments and an Fc fragment directly. These methods are described for example by Goldenberg U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 036 945 and 4 331 647 and references contained therein which patents are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. See also Porter R. R. Biochem. J. 73 119 126 1959. Other methods of cleaving antibodies such as separation of heavy chains to form monovalent light heavy chain fragments further cleavage of fragments or other enzymatic chemical or genetic techniques may also be used so long as the fragments bind to the antigen that is recognized by the intact antibody.

Fv fragments comprise an association of VH and VL chains. This association may be noncovalent as described in Inbar et al. Proc. Nat l Acad. Sci. USA 69 2659 62 1972. Alternatively the variable chains can be linked by an intermolecular disulfide bond or cross linked by chemicals such as glutaraldehyde. Preferably the Fv fragments comprise VH and VL chains connected by a peptide linker. These single chain antigen binding proteins sFv are prepared by constructing a structural gene comprising DNA sequences encoding the VH and VL domains connected by an oligonucleotide. The structural gene is inserted into an expression vector which is subsequently introduced into a host cell such as . The recombinant host cells synthesize a single polypeptide chain with a linker peptide bridging the two V domains. Methods for producing sFvs are described for example by Whitlow and Filpula Methods 2 97 105 1991 Bird et al. Science 242 423 426 1988 Pack et al. Bio Technology 11 1271 77 1993 and Ladner et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Another form of an antibody fragment is a peptide coding for a single complementarity determining region CDR . CDR peptides minimal recognition units can be obtained by constructing genes encoding the CDR of an antibody of interest. Such genes are prepared for example by using the polymerase chain reaction to synthesize the variable region from RNA of antibody producing cells. See for example Larrick and Fry Methods 2 106 10 1991.

In some embodiments the antibodies or fragments as described herein may comprise humanized forms of antibodies. In some embodiments the term humanized forms of antibodies refers to non human e.g. murine antibodies which are chimeric molecules of immunoglobulins immunoglobulin chains or fragments thereof such as Fv Fab Fab F ab .sub.2 or other antigen binding subsequences of antibodies which contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulin. Humanized antibodies include human immunoglobulins recipient antibody in which residues form a complementary determining region CDR of the recipient are replaced by residues from a CDR of a non human species donor antibody such as mouse rat or rabbit having the desired specificity affinity and capacity. In some instances Fv framework residues of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non human residues. Humanized antibodies may also comprise residues which are found neither in the recipient antibody nor in the imported CDR or framework sequences. In general the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one and typically two variable domains in which all or substantially all of the CDR regions correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FR regions are those of a human immunoglobulin consensus sequence. The humanized antibody optimally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region Fc typically that of a human immunoglobulin Jones et al. Nature 321 522 525 1986 Riechmann et al. Nature 332 323 329 1988 and Presta Curr. Op. Struct. Biol. 2 593 596 1992 .

Methods for humanizing non human antibodies are well known in the art. Generally a humanized antibody has one or more amino acid residues introduced into it from a source which is non human. These non human amino acid residues are often referred to as import residues which are typically taken from an import variable domain. Humanization can be essentially performed following the method of Winter and co workers Jones et al. Nature 321 522 525 1986 Riechmann et al. Nature 332 323 327 1988 Verhoeyen et al. Science 239 1534 1536 1988 by substituting rodent CDRs or CDR sequences for the corresponding sequences of a human antibody. Accordingly such humanized antibodies are chimeric antibodies U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 wherein substantially less than an intact human variable domain has been substituted by the corresponding sequence from a non human species. In practice humanized antibodies are typically human antibodies in which some CDR residues and possibly some FR residues are substituted by residues from analogous sites in rodent antibodies.

Human antibodies can also be produced using various techniques known in the art including phage display libraries Hoogenboom and Winter J. Mol. Biol. 227 381 1991 Marks et al. J. Mol. Biol. 222 581 1991 . The techniques of Cole et al. and Boerner et al. are also available for the preparation of human monoclonal antibodies Cole et al. Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss p. 77 1985 and Boerner et al. J. Immunol. 147 1 86 95 1991 . Similarly human can be made by introducing of human immunoglobulin loci into transgenic animals e.g. mice in which the endogenous immunoglobulin genes have been partially or completely inactivated. Upon challenge human antibody production is observed which closely resembles that seen in humans in all respects including gene rearrangement assembly and antibody repertoire. This approach is described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 545 807 5 545 806 5 569 825 5 625 126 5 633 425 5 661 016 and in the following scientific publications Marks et al. Bio Technology 10 779 783 1992 Lonberg et al. Nature 368 856 859 1994 Morrison Nature 368 812 13 1994 Fishwild et al. Nature Biotechnology 14 845 51 1996 Neuberger Nature Biotechnology 14 826 1996 Lonberg and Huszar Intern. Rev. Immunol. 13 65 93 1995 .

In one embodiment the targeting moiety is an antibody or fragment thereof specifically recognized by a neutrophil for example and antibody specifically recognizing L selectin 2 integrins complement receptor 1 CR 1 decay accelerating factor DAF C5a receptor intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ICAM 1 ICAM 3 and others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In some embodiments phagocytic cells are targeted or engaged via a molecule interacting with Fc receptors chemokine receptors CD40 CD80 CD86 MHC class II molecules CD69 ADAMS CD14 CD163 CD33 CD63 CD68 CD74 CHIT1 CHST10 CSF1R DPP4 FABP4 FCGR1A ICAM2 IL1R2 ITGA1 ITGA2 S100A8 TNFRSF8 and others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In another embodiment the targeting moiety may be any appropriate moiety for example aptamers naturally occurring or artificial ligands or engineered binding proteins may comprise the targeting moieties as described herein and their physical association with a glucan as herein described can be readily accomplished by any number of means known in the art including for example the methods described hereinbelow or variations thereof to suit the particular nature of the targeting moiety chosen.

In one embodiment the targeting moiety enhances attachment to the cell or in another embodiment enhances homing to the cell. In one embodiment the targeting moiety enhances attachment following supply of an energy source. In one embodiment the targeting moiety is chemically attached to the glucan via a chemical cross linking group or in another embodiment forms a stable association with the glucan or in another embodiment forms an association with the glucan which dissociates following changes in environmental conditions such as for example salt concentration or pH.

In one embodiment the targeting moiety may be an antibody which specifically recognizes a molecule of interest such as a protein or nucleic acid. In another embodiment the antibody may specifically recognize a reporter molecule attached to a molecule of interest. In another embodiment the targeting moiety may be an antibody fragment Protein A Protein G Protein L biotin avidin streptavidin a metal ion chelate an enzyme cofactor or a nucleic acid. In another embodiment the targeting moiety may be a receptor which binds to a cognate ligand of interest or associated with a cell or molecule of interest or in another embodiment the targeting moiety may be a ligand which is used to attach to a cell via interaction with its cognate receptor.

Linking the targeting moiety to the glucan of this invention may be accomplished by any means known in the art for example as described further herein in Example 7 or for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 965 714 or United States Patent Publication No. 20070141084 or Schneerson et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2003 Jul. 22 100 15 8945 50 Lees et al. Vaccine. 1996 February 14 3 190 8 or via the use of a cross linking agent as described herein or other methods as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In some embodiments glycosylated antibodies are used and the 1 6 glucan is linked to the glycosylated residue of the antibody or in another embodiment linkages may be multiple and involve multiple sites on the antibody or targeting moiety as will be understood by one skilled in the art.

In some embodiments linking the glucan to a targeting moiety results in enhanced phagocytosis and or killing of the targeted cell or organism. In some embodiments such lysis may be mediated by any professional antigen presenting cell or killer cell such as for example neutrophils macrophages dendritic cells natural killer cells cytotoxic T lymphocytes and others.

In some embodiments any O acetylated glucan may be physically associated with a targeting moiety and comprise the glucans or compositions of this invention representing an embodiment thereof. Use of such O acetylated glucans for example 1 3 glucans which have been O acetylated for modulating immune responses treating cancer or precancerous lesions promoting resolution of infection or any method as herein described is to be considered as part of this invention.

In some embodiments any of the glucan preparations of this invention may be linked to a labeling agent such that detection of the glucan is readily accomplished. In one embodiment the term a labeling agent refers to a molecule which renders readily detectable that which is contacted with a labeling agent. In one embodiment the labeling agent is a marker polypeptide. The marker polypeptide may comprise for example green fluorescent protein GFP DS Red red fluorescent protein secreted alkaline phosphatase SEAP beta galactosidase luciferase or any number of other reporter proteins known to one skilled in the art. In another embodiment the labeling agent may be conjugated to another molecule which provides greater specificity for the target to be labeled. For example and in one embodiment the labeling agent is a fluorochrome conjugated to an antibody which specifically binds to a given target molecule or in another embodiment which specifically binds another antibody bound to a target molecule such as will be readily appreciated by one skilled in the art. In some embodiments the glucan linked to an antibody incorporates a fluorochrome in the antibody as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the glucan is enriched for O acetylated groups and in one embodiment the glucan contains at least 25 by weight O acetylated glucan. In another embodiment the glucan is isolated or derived from a lichen or a yeast which in one embodiment is Umbilicariaceae. In one embodiment the glucan is chemically synthesized or acetylated. In another embodiment the composition further comprises an adjuvant an antigen an immuno modulatory compound or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the phagocytic cell is a professional antigen presenting cell. In another embodiment the phagocytic cell is a neutrophil.

The invention provides a coated material comprising a a substrate and b a compound or composition comprising 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments the 1 6 glucan is enriched for O acetylated glucan. In certain embodiments the coated material is in the form of or is a component of an implant or other surgical or medical device. In certain embodiments the coated material is a coated material described in provisional patent application U.S. Ser. No. 60 817 075 filed Jun. 29 2006 entitled Coating of Devices with Effector Compounds wherein the effector compound is or comprises 1 6 glucan.

The invention provides implants and surgical or medical devices comprising a coated material of the invention. As used herein the term medical device encompasses implants and any device used in the surgical or medical management of a subject wherein the device is contacted with or introduced into the body of the subject and typically remains in contact with or at least in part within the body for at least a period of 2 hours e.g. at least 4 8 12 or 24 hours. In certain embodiments the term device refers to a complete device or any part or component thereof. For example in many applications a part for a device will be treated in accordance with the present invention and then later assembled with other parts to form a complete device.

In certain embodiments the period is between 1 day and 1 week 1 4 weeks 4 8 weeks 1 6 months 6 12 months or longer. In certain embodiments the device is intended to remain in contact with or within the body for the remainder of the subject s life unless the device fails or needs to be removed e.g. as a result of infection . In certain embodiments the invention provides implants and surgical or medical devices such as catheters indwelling intravenous or arterial lines stents and grafts coated with or otherwise constructed to contain and or release any of the compounds or compositions disclosed herein comprising 1 6 glucan. Optionally the 1 6 glucan is enriched for O acetylated groups. In certain embodiments the device coated with or otherwise containing 1 6 glucan is more resistant to biofilm formation e.g. by a fungus or bacterium than an otherwise identical device not coated with or containing the compound or composition. In certain embodiments the implant or other device is as described in provisional patent application U.S. Ser. No. 60 817 075 filed Jun. 29 2006 entitled Coating of Devices with Effector Compounds wherein the effector compound is or comprises 1 6 glucan.

In certain embodiments the coated material implant or other device is manufactured as described in provisional patent application U.S. Ser. No. 60 817 075 filed Jun. 29 2006 entitled Coating of Devices with Effector Compounds wherein the effector compound is or comprises 1 6 glucan.

In one embodiment the 1 6 glucan is released slowly over a course of time e.g. over 1 day 1 week 1 4 weeks 4 12 weeks 12 24 weeks 24 36 weeks 36 48 weeks etc. . In certain embodiments by the end of the time period release has substantially ceased. In certain embodiments at the end of the time period the release rate is less than about 5 of the peak rate of release or less than 5 of the average rate of release during the time period and or less than about 5 10 or 20 of the compound remains associated with the substrate. In other embodiments the 1 6 glucan is rapidly released e.g. at least about 50 of the 1 6 glucan is released during the first 24 hours. In certain embodiments release is minimal over a time period of interest e.g. 1 day 1 week 1 4 weeks 4 12 weeks 12 24 weeks 24 36 weeks 36 48 weeks etc. . In certain embodiments at least 50 60 70 80 90 95 of more of the 1 6 glucan remains associated with the substrate at the end of a time period of interest. Release can be measured in vitro e.g. under conditions of salt concentration pH and temperature that approximate physiological conditions in the body of a mammalian subject and or in vivo. In certain embodiments the rate of release is controllable e.g. by appropriate selection of the components of a coating layer and or their concentration. In certain embodiments the thickness of a coating layer is selected to achieve release over a desired duration. For example a device having a coating layer of an appropriate thickness or composition may be selected to provide release for the expected duration of use e.g. the time during which the device is expected to be in intermittent or continuous contact with the subject s body.

Any of the coated materials implants or other devices disclosed herein may comprise a 1 6 glucan and any one or more therapeutic agents useful in treating a medical condition of the subject. Medical condition encompasses any acquired or inherited disease disorder or injury etc. for which medical and or surgical intervention is warranted.

Exemplary inventive implants and other surgical or medical devices include cardiovascular devices e g implantable venous catheters venous ports tunneled venous catheters chronic infusion lines or ports including hepatic artery infusion catheters pacemaker wires implantable defibrillators neurologic neurosurgical devices e.g. ventricular peritoneal shunts ventricular atrial shunts nerve stimulator devices dural patches and implants to prevent epidural fibrosis post laminectomy devices for continuous subarachnoid infusions gastrointestinal devices e.g. chronic indwelling catheters feeding tubes portosystemic shunts shunts for ascites peritoneal implants for drug delivery peritoneal dialysis catheters implantable meshes for hernias suspensions or solid implants to prevent surgical adhesions including meshes genitourinary devices e.g. uterine implants including intrauterine devices IUDs and devices to prevent endometrial hyperplasia fallopian tubal implants including reversible sterilization devices fallopian tubal stents artificial sphincters and periurethral implants for incontinence ureteric stents temporary or chronic indwelling catheters bladder augmentations or wraps or splints for vasovasostomy phthalmonlogic implants e.g. Molteno implants and other implants for neovascular glaucoma or other eye disorders drug eluting contact lenses for pterygiums splints for failed dacrocystalrhinostomy drug eluting contact lenses e.g. for corneal neovascularity implants for diabetic retinopathy drug eluting contact lenses for high risk corneal transplants otolaryngology devices e.g. ossicular implants Eustachian tube splints or stents for glue ear or chronic otitis plastic surgery implants and orthopedic implants e.g. spinal rods screws orthopedic prostheses . Other implantable devices of interest herein include pumps e.g. for delivery of insulin pain medications etc. The pump may be an intrathecal pump. Also encompassed is any type of prosthesis e.g. any substitute for a missing body part. Additionally encompassed are materials useful for sutures.

In certain embodiments the implant or other medical or surgical device is listed in Hunter T. B. and Taljanovic M. S. Glossary of Medical Devices and Procedures Abbreviations Acronyms and Definitions 23 195 213 2003. which provides a nonlimiting set of definitions commonly accepted in the art.

In certain embodiments the device comprises a tube shaped structure having a lumen wherein the wall of the structure has an inner and an outer surface either or both of which is coated with or otherwise adapted to comprise and optionally release a compound or composition disclosed herein comprising 1 6 glucan.

Implants and other surgical or medical devices may be coated with or otherwise adapted to comprise and optionally release compositions of the present invention in a variety of manners including for example a by affixing to the implant or device a compound or composition e.g. by spraying the implant or device with a composition comprising a compound or composition of the invention by dipping the implant or device into a solution comprising the compound or composition of the invention or by other covalent or noncovalent means b by coating the implant or device with a substance such as a hydrogel which will in turn absorb the inventive compound or composition c by interweaving a compound or composition coated thread or other substrate into the implant or device d by inserting the implant or device into a sleeve or mesh which is comprised of or coated with a compound or composition disclosed herein e constructing the implant or device itself with a compound or composition disclosed herein or f by otherwise adapting the implant or device to release the compound or composition.

In one embodiment the term coated refers to the physical attachment or in another embodiment association of a gel film foam particle and or composition comprising 1 6 glucan with at least a portion of a surface of a material whose coating is desired. In one embodiment such coating will comprise less than 1 of an exposed surface of the material or in another embodiment from 1 10 or in another embodiment from 1 25 or in another embodiment from 1 50 or in another embodiment from 1 75 or in another embodiment from 1 100 of at least one surface of the material.

In one embodiment application of such coating will be in a pattern or on specific regions of the material to suit a particular purpose. For example and in some embodiments a tube shaped device such as a catheter may comprise coating of one material on the lumenally exposed surface of the tube for example a coating comprising an anti inflammatory or anti proliferative compound and in some embodiments the tube shaped device may be coated with a different material for example a coating comprising a 1 6 glucan which in one embodiment inhibits biofilm formation. In one embodiment the coating of a material will be on at least one surface of the material or in another embodiment on two or more surfaces of the material or in another embodiment on every exposed surface of the material or in another embodiment on any surface of the material.

In some embodiments the term coated material applies not only to a surface coating of the material but is to be understood as encompassing embedding and or impregnating the material in whole or in some embodiments in part with the gels films foams particles and or compositions described herein comprising 1 6 glucan. In some embodiments the embedding and or impregnating the material may be according to a desired pattern and or design to suit a particular purpose or application. In some embodiments multiple coatings may be impregnated or embedded in the material each of which may be applied according to a particular pattern or design which may be the same or in another embodiment different than the patterning of a first coating.

In some embodiments the embedding and or impregnating may be to a particular surface of a material in a particular pattern and or design to suit a particular purpose or application. In some embodiments the embedding and or impregnating of the material may be to two or more surfaces of the material in the particular patten and or design or such pattern and or design may vary as a function of the surface to which the material is being embedded and or impregnated within.

The devices are made of any of a variety of different materials as appropriate for their intended use. In certain embodiments the devices of this invention can be made at least in part from any suitable thermoplastic or thermosensitive e.g. thermosetting polymer. Suitable polymers include for instance silicones and urethanes e.g. polyurethane . In one embodiment the substrate material or device can be made at least in part from polyvinyl chloride. In certain embodiments the device is formed at least in part from polyethylene. One of skill in the art will appreciate that these materials are commonly used for tubular devices such as catheters.

In certain embodiments the compound or composition comprising adheres sufficiently to the implant or other device during storage and at the time of introduction to the body so that the device withstands routine handling e.g. during insertion and storage without significant loss of the compound or composition e.g. with loss not exceeding 10 20 or 30 of the compound or composition. In certain embodiments the compound or composition does not significantly degrade during storage prior to insertion or when warmed to body temperature after insertion inside the body if this is to be performed . In certain embodiments of the invention the inventive implant or device provides a uniform predictable prolonged release of the inventive compound or composition into the fluid or tissue surrounding the implant or device once it has been deployed. In certain embodiments e.g. for vascular stents or other devices that may be exposed to blood the composition or compound and materials used to form a coating do not render the surface thrombogenic causing blood clots to form or cause significant turbulence in blood flow more than would be expected in the case if the device was uncoated or its surface did not comprise a compound or composition disclosed herein .

In some embodiments the term gel encompasses its ordinary meaning in the art. In one embodiment the term gel refers to a composition comprising a polymer having a fluidity at room temperature between that of a liquid and a solid. In some embodiments the term gel refers to a solid or semisolid colloid system formed of a solid continuous phase and a liquid phase either discontinuous or continuous or mixed which in some embodiments can be identified by its outward gelatinous appearance and or exhibits properties of a solid such as plasticity elasticity or rigidity. In some embodiments the liquid phase can be a dispersed phase or in other embodiments continuous. In some embodiments the gelling component solid phase is lipophilic and present in concentrations of less than 10 or in another embodiment 15 or in another embodiment 20 or in another embodiment 25 or in another embodiment 30 or in another embodiment 40 percent. In some embodiments the term gel may encompass a silica gel an aluminosilicate gel or other materials which are primarily solid and or particulate microspheroidal spheroidal etc. or described with descriptive properties terms or expressions which indicates destruction of the two phase system such as pore volume pore diameter surface area. In one embodiment the gel is a hydrogel which in certain embodiments comprises at least 70 80 90 95 98 or more water by weight. In another embodiment the gel comprises polymers dispersed in solvents other than water or aqueous solutions.

In some embodiments the term foam encompasses its ordinary meaning in the art. In some embodiments the term foam refers to a colloidal suspension of a gas in a liquid. In one embodiment the term foam refers to a composition comprising an internal phase of gas in an external phase of a liquid or solid. In a liquid foam in some embodiments a colloidal adsorptive agent forms a film that bounds a gas bubble with the colloidal dimension in the foam affecting the thickness of the film not the size of the bubble.

In some embodiments the term film encompasses its ordinary meaning in the art. In one embodiment the term film refers to a layer of material whose dimension is restricted in one dimension. In some embodiments the average thickness of the film is between 10 m and 100 m. In some embodiments the average thickness of the film is between 1 m and 10 p.m. The thickness of the film can vary or be substantially uniform e.g. varying by less than about 1 5 or 10 over a surface in various embodiments .

The invention encompasses precursors to the coated material e.g. compositions comprising a 1 6 glucan and a precursor material that can be used to form a coating layer when applied to a substrate or can be used to impregnate a substrate. Optionally the composition comprises a solvent e.g. one that evaporates to allow formation of a coating layer. In some embodiments the solvent is an aqueous solvent. In some embodiments the solvent is an organic solvent. In some embodiments the solvent is polar or slightly polar. In some embodiments the solvent is non polar or essentially non polar. Suitable solvents may include inter alia dimethylsulfoxide DMSO acetone alcohols methylethyl ketone toluene xylene N N dimethyl formamide DMF tetrahydrofuran and the like. In some embodiments the solvent is water.

Also provided are processes for preparing the coated material implant or other device of the invention.

The coated substrates materials and or devices of this invention may comprise metallic ceramic or polymeric materials or a combination thereof. The substrates materials and or devices may have a variety of physical properties. For example they may be flexible such that they readily conform or bend to adopt a desired shape or configuration under conditions of use or they may be rigid such that significant force is required to cause an alteration in shape. In some embodiments the device maintains its shape when supported at only one point or end. The surface could be substantially smooth or could be rough and or comprise crevices.

In some embodiments the metallic materials include metals and alloys based on titanium such as nitinol nickel titanium alloys thermo memory alloy materials stainless steel tantalum nickel chrome or certain cobalt alloys including cobalt chromium nickel alloys such as Elgiloy and Phynox . Metallic materials also include clad composite filaments such as those disclosed in WO 94 16646.

In some embodiments the ceramic materials include but are not limited to oxides carbides or nitrides of the transition elements such as titanium oxides hafnium oxides iridium oxides chromium oxides aluminum oxides and zirconium oxides. Silicon based materials such as silica may also be used. Any of these materials may be used to form a substrate or a part of a device of this invention and may be coated with the gels foams films or other compositions comprising a 1 6 glucan as herein described.

Also provided by the present invention are methods of using the devices. The devices may be used in any manner in which conventional counterparts e.g. counterparts not comprising and or coated with a compound or composition disclosed herein are used such methods being known in the art. Also provided by the present invention are methods of delivering a compound or composition disclosed herein comprising a 1 6 glucan to a subject wherein the method comprises implanting or introducing a coated material or device comprising a compound or composition of the invention into the body of the subject.

In another embodiment any of the compositions of the invention comprises an adjuvant an antigen an immuno modulatory compound or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment this invention provides for the combined use of or compositions comprising glucans and an adjuvant. In some embodiments the adjuvant may include but is not limited to A aluminium compounds e.g. aluminium hydroxide aluminium phosphate aluminium hydroxyphosphate oxyhydroxide orthophosphate sulphate etc. e.g. see chapters 8 9 of ref 96 or mixtures of different aluminium compounds with the compounds taking any suitable form e.g. gel crystalline amorphous etc. and with adsorption being preferred B MF59 5 Squalene 0.5 Tween 80 and 0.5 Span 85 formulated into submicron particles using a microfluidizer C liposomes D ISCOMs which may be devoid of additional detergent E SAF containing 10 Squalane 0.4 Tween 80 5 pluronic block polymer L121 and thr MDP either micro fluidized into a submicron emulsion or vortexed to generate a larger particle size emulsion F Ribi adjuvant system RAS Ribi Immunochem containing 2 Squalene 0.2 Tween 80 and one or more bacterial cell wall components from the group consisting of monophosphorylipid A MPL trehalose dimycolate TDM and cell wall skeleton CWS preferably MPL CWS Detox G saponin adjuvants such as QuilA or QS21 also known as Stimulon H chitosan I complete Freund s adjuvant CFA and incomplete Freund s adjuvant IFA J cytokines such as interleukins e.g. IL 1 IL 2 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 12 etc. interferons e.g. interferon macrophage colony stimulating factor tumor necrosis factor etc. K monophosphoryl lipid A MPL or 3 O deacylated MPL 3dMPL L combinations of 3dMPL with for example QS21 and or oil in water emulsions M oligonucleotides comprising CpG motifs i.e. containing at least one CG dinucleotide with 5 methylcytosine optionally being used in place of cytosine N a polyoxyethylene ether or a polyoxyethylene ester O a polyoxyethylene sorbitan ester surfactant in combination with an octoxynol or a polyoxyethylene alkyl ether or ester surfactant in combination with at least one additional non ionic surfactant such as an octoxynol P an immuno stimulatory oligonucleotide e.g. a CpG oligonucleotide and a saponin Q an immuno stimulant and a particle of metal salt R a saponin and an oil in water emulsion S a saponin e.g. QS21 3dMPL IL12 optionally a sterol T heat labile enterotoxin LT or detoxified mutants thereof such as the K63 or R72 mutants U cholera toxin CT or diphtheria toxin DT or detoxified mutants of either V double stranded RNA W monophosphoryl lipid A mimics such as aminoalkyl glucosaminide phosphate derivatives e.g. RC 529 X polyphosphazene PCPP or Y a bioadhesive such as esterified hyaluronic acid microspheres or a mucoadhesive such as crosslinked derivatives of poly acrylic acid polyvinyl alcohol polyvinyl pyrollidone polysaccharides and carboxymethylcellulose.

Muramyl peptides include N acetyl muramyl L threonyl D isoglutamine thr MDP N acetyl normuramyl L alanyl D isoglutamine nor MDP N acetylmuramyl L alanyl D isoglutaminyl L alanine 2 1 2 dipalmitoyl sn glycero 3 hydroxyphosphoryloxy ethylamine MTP PE etc.

In another embodiment this invention provides for the combined use of or compositions comprising glucans and an antigen.

In various embodiments the antigen may be any molecule recognized by the immune system of the subject as foreign. For example the antigen may be any foreign molecule such as a protein including a modified protein such as a glycoprotein a mucoprotein etc. a nucleic acid a carbohydrate a proteoglycan a lipid a mucin molecule or other similar molecule including any combination thereof. The antigen may in another embodiment be a cell or a part thereof for example a cell surface molecule. In another embodiment the antigen may derive from an infectious virus bacteria fungi or other organism e.g. protists or part thereof. These infectious organisms may be active in one embodiment or inactive in another embodiment which may be accomplished for example through exposure to heat or removal of at least one protein or gene required for replication of the organism. In one embodiment the antigenic protein or peptide is isolated or in another embodiment synthesized.

In one embodiment the term antigen refers to a substance such as a protein peptide or any fragment which stimulates or enhances an immune response following exposure to or contact with the antigen. In one embodiment the antigen is a danger signal interpreted by the immune system of a subject as to initiate or enhance an immune response as a consequence of the signal. In another embodiment the antigen represents the host s ability to distinguish the presence of a molecule which is non self .

In one embodiment the antigen is derived from a pathogen an infected cell a neoplastic or preneoplastic cell. In another embodiment the antigen is an autoantigen or a molecule which initiates or enhances an autoimmune response.

In one embodiment the antigen is derived from a parasitic agent which resides intracellularly during at least some stages of its life cycle. The intracellular parasites contemplated include for example protozoa. Protozoa which infect cells include parasites of the genus e.g. and and . In another embodiment the parasitic agent resides extracellularly during at least part of its life cycle. Examples include nematodes trematodes flukes and cestodes. In some embodiments the antigen is derived from byproducts of infection with the protozoa described for example egg antigens of the antigens uniquely expressed from cysts and others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the antigen is derived from a diseased and or abnormal cell. The diseased or abnormal cells contemplated include infected cells neoplastic cells pre neoplastic cells inflammatory foci benign tumors or polyps cafe au lait spots leukoplakia other skin moles self reactive cells including T and or NK cells etc

In one embodiment the antigen is derived from an infectious virus including inter alia Retroviridae e.g. human immunodeficiency viruses such as HIV 1 also referred to as HTLV III LAV or HTLV III LAV or HIV III and other isolates such as HIV LP Picornaviridae e.g. polio viruses hepatitis A virus enteroviruses human coxsackie viruses rhinoviruses echoviruses Calciviridae e.g. strains that cause gastroenteritis Togaviridae e.g. equine encephalitis viruses rubella viruses Flaviridae e.g. dengue viruses encephalitis viruses yellow fever viruses Coronaviridae e.g. coronaviruses Rhabdoviridae e.g. vesicular stomatitis viruses rabies viruses Filoviridae e.g. Ebola viruses Paramyxoviridae e.g. parainfluenza viruses mumps virus measles virus respiratory syncytial virus Orthomyxoviridae e.g. influenza viruses Bungaviridae e.g. Hantaan viruses bunga viruses phleboviruses and Nairo viruses Arenaviridae hemorrhagic fever viruses Reoviridae erg. reoviruses orbiviurses and rotaviruses Birnaviridae Hepadnaviridae Hepatitis B virus Parvoviridae parvoviruses Papovaviridae papilloma viruses polyoma viruses Adenoviridae most adenoviruses Herpesviridae herpes simplex virus HSV 1 and 2 varicella zoster virus cytomegalovirus CMV herpes viruses Poxyiridae variola viruses vaccinia viruses pox viruses and Iridoviridae e.g. African swine fever virus and unclassified viruses e.g. the etiological agents of spongiform encephalopathies the agent of delta hepatities thought to be a defective satellite of hepatitis B virus the agents of non A non B hepatitis class 1 internally transmitted class 2 parenterally transmitted i.e. Hepatitis C Norwalk and related viruses and astroviruses .

In one embodiment the antigen is derived from bacteria including inter alia sps e.g. Group A Group B viridans group anaerobic sps. pathogenic sp. sp. sp. sp. sp. and

In one embodiment the antigen is derived from fungi including inter alia such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such as such as commune such as such as such as or others.

In one embodiment the pathogenic fungus infects human hosts. In one embodiment the pathogenic fungus infects non human animals.

In some embodiments the compositions and methods of this invention allow for the combined use of multiple antigens from the same source multiple antigens from the same class of organism multiple antigens from different classes of organisms or any combination thereof.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of treating delaying progression of or reducing the incidence or severity of an infection in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising purified 1 6 glucan. In certain embodiments of the invention the infection is one due to a pathogenic fungus. In certain embodiments of the invention the infection is one due to a pathogenic bacterium virus or parasite. In certain embodiments of the invention the subject receives in addition to a composition of this invention any agent known in the art to be useful for treating or preventing an infection from which the subject is at risk from which the subject suffers. Thus in one embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject i a composition of this invention comprising 1 6 glucan and ii a known anti fungal anti bacterial anti viral or anti parasitic agent. The composition and anti fungal agent could be administered in a single composition or separately. In some embodiments such separate administration may be within up to 24 or up to 48 hours apart and in some embodiments less than an hour apart. The composition could be suitable for use in humans for veterinary applications or both.

In some embodiments the particles glucans compositions or combinations thereof of this invention stimulate enhance or facilitate complement fixation.

According to this aspect and in some embodiments the coated substrates materials particles beads glucans and or devices of this invention may be used in methods of stimulating enhancing or promoting immune responses which involve complement fixation which result in therapeutic effects in the subject. In some embodiments such infections may comprise infection with any of the pathogens as herein described. In some embodiments such immune response may be directed to sepsis in the subject. In some embodiments such immune response may be directed to Chagas disease in a subject a pulmonary pathogen or a parasite or helminth In some embodiments such immune response is directed against a viral infection such as HSV.

In some embodiments the methods according to this aspect of the invention may further comprise administration of an agent which promotes elaboration of the complement cascade. In some embodiments according to this aspect of the invention the methods may further comprise administration of an antibody which specifically recognizes the pathogenic agent with which the subject is infected.

In one embodiment the 1 6 glucan is enriched for O acetylated groups which in one embodiment contains at least 25 by weight O acetylated glucan and certain embodiments contains between 10 and 20 or between 20 and 25 by weight O acetylated glucan. In another embodiment the composition further comprises an adjuvant an antigen a peptide an immuno stimulatory compound a chemotherapeutic or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the antigen or peptide is derived from the source of the infection. In one embodiment the immuno stimulatory compound is a cytokine. In another embodiment the chemotherapeutic compound is an antibiotic or antiviral compound.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of treating delaying progression of prolonging remission of or reducing the incidence or severity of cancer in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising purified 1 6 glucan.

In one embodiment the antigen is a tumor associated antigen or in another embodiment the peptide is derived from a tumor associated antigen.

In one embodiment the subject has a hyperplastic or preneoplastic lesion. In another embodiment the subject has cancer.

In one embodiment cancers associated with the following cancer antigen may be treated or prevented by the methods and compositions of the invention. KS 1 4 pan carcinoma antigen Perez and Walker 1990 J. Immunol. 142 32 37 Bumal 1988 Hybridoma 7 4 407 415 ovarian carcinoma antigen CAl25 Yu et al. 1991 Cancer Res. 51 2 48 475 prostatic acid phosphate Tailor et al. 1990 Nucl. Acids Res. 18 1 4928 prostate specific antigen Henttu and Vihko 1989 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm 10 2 903 910 Israeli et al. 1993 Cancer Res. 53 227 230 melanoma associated antigen p97 Estin et al. 1989 J. Natl. Cancer Instit. 81 6 445 44 melanoma antigen gp75 Vijayasardahl et al. 1990 J. Exp. Med. 171 4 1375 1380 high molecular weight melanoma antigen HMW MAA Natali et al. 1987 Cancer 59 55 3 Mittelman et al. 1990 J. Clin. Invest. 86 2136 2144 prostate specific membrane antigen carcinoembryonic antigen CEA Foon et al. 1994 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 13 294 polymorphic epithelial mucin antigen human milk fat globule antigen colorectal tumor associated antigens such as CEA TAG 72 Yokata et al. 1992 Cancer Res. 52 3402 3408 CO17 1A Ragnhammar et al. 1993 Int. J. Cancer 53 751 758 GICA 19 9 Herlyn et al. 1982 J. Clin. Immunol. 2 135 CTA 1 and LEA Burkitt s lymphoma antigen 38.13 CD19 Ghetie et al. 1994 Blood 83 1329 1336 human B lymphoma antigen CD20 Reff et al. 1994 Blood 83 435 445 CD33 Sgouros et al. 1993 J. Nucl. Med. 34 422 430 melanoma specific antigens such as ganglioside GD2 Saleh et al. 1993 J. Immunol. 151 3390 3398 ganglioside GD3 shitara et al. 1993 Cancer Immunol. Immunother. 36 373 380 ganglioside GM2 Livingston et al. 1994 J. Clin. Oncol. 12 1036 1044 ganglioside GM3 Hoon et al. 1993 Cancer Res. 53 5244 5250 tumor specific transplantation type of cell surface antigen TSTA such as virally induced tumor antigens including T antigen DNA tumor viruses and envelope antigens of RNA tumor viruses oncofetal antigen alpha fetoprotein such as CEA of colon bladder tumor oncofetal antigen Hellstrom et al. 1985 Cancer. Res. 45 2210 2188 differentiation antigen such as human lung carcinoma antigen L6 L20 Hellstrom et al. 1986 Cancer Res. 46 3917 3923 antigens of fibrosarcoma human leukemia T cell antigen Gp37 Bhattacharya Chatterjee et al. 1988 J. of Immun 141 1398 1403 neoglycoprotein sphingolipids breast cancer antigen such as EGFR Epidermal growth factor receptor HER2 antigen p185HER2 polymorphic epithelial mucin PEM Hilkens et al. 1992 Trends in Bio. Chem. Sci. 17 359 malignant human lymphocyte antigen APO 1 Bernhard et al. 1989 Science 245 301 304 differentiation antigen Feizi 1985 Nature 314 53 57 such as I antigen found in fetal erythrocytes and primary endoderm I Ma found in gastric adenocarcinomas M18 and M39 found in breast epithelium SSEA 1 found in myeloid cells VEP8 VEP9 Myl VIM D5 and D156 22 found in colorectal cancer TRA 1 85 blood group H C14 found in colonic adenocarcinoma F3 found in lung adenocarcinoma AH6 found in gastric cancer Y hapten Ley found in embryonal carcinoma cells TL5 blood group A EGF receptor found in A431 cells El series blood group B found in pancreatic cancer FC10.2 found in embryonal carcinoma cells gastric adenocarcinoma CO 514 blood group Lea found in adenocarcinoma NS 10 found in adenocarcinomas CO 43 blood group Leb G49 EGF receptor blood group ALeb Ley found in colonic adenocarcinoma 19.9 found in colon cancer gastric cancer mucins T5A7 found in myeloid cells R24 found in melanoma 4.2 GD3 D1.1 OFA 1 GM2 OFA 2 GD2 M1 22 25 8 found in embryonal carcinoma cells and SSEA 3 SSEA 4 found in 4 8 cell stage embryos. In another embodiment the antigen is a T cell receptor derived peptide from a cutaneous T cell lymphoma see Edelson 1998 The Cancer Journal 4 62 .

In another embodiment the antigenic peptide or protein is derived from HER2 neu or chorio embryonic antigen CEA for suppression inhibition of cancers of the breast ovary pancreas colon prostate and lung which express these antigens. Similarly mucin type antigens such as MUC 1 can be used against various carcinomas the MAGE BAGE and Mart 1 antigens can be used against melanomas. In one embodiment the methods may be tailored to a specific cancer patient such that the choice of antigenic peptide or protein is based on which antigen s are expressed in the patient s cancer cells which may be predetermined by in other embodiments surgical biopsy or blood cell sample followed by immunohistochemistry.

In another embodiment this invention provides for the combined use of or compositions comprising glucans and an immuno modulatory compound.

Examples of useful immuno modulating proteins include cytokines chemokines complement components immune system accessory and adhesion molecules and their receptors of human or non human animal specificity. Useful examples include but are not limited to GM CSF IL 2 IL 12 OX40 OX40L gp34 lymphotactin CD40 and CD40L. Further useful examples include but are not limited to interleukins for example interleukins 1 to 15 interferons alpha beta or gamma tumor necrosis factor granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF macrophage colony stimulating factor M CSF granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF chemokines such as neutrophil activating protein NAP macrophage chemoattractant and activating factor MCAF RANTES macrophage inflammatory peptides MIP 1a and MIP 1b complement components and their receptors or an accessory molecule such as B7.1 B7.2 TRAP ICAM 1 2 or 3 and cytokine receptors. OX40 and OX40 ligand gp34 are further useful examples of immuno modulatory proteins. It is to be understood that any compound which may enhance stimulate or mitigate or abrogate an immune response in concert with the glucans as herein described in a given immune response may be incorporated in the compositions of this invention or used in accordance with the methods of this invention and is to be considered an embodiment thereof.

In another embodiment this invention provides for the combined use of or compositions comprising glucans and at least one adjuvant antigen immuno modulatory compound or a combination thereof. In another embodiment this invention provides for the combined use of or compositions comprising glucans which may be derived from multiple sources combinations of such glucans and two or more adjuvants antigens immuno modulatory compounds or a combination thereof. The glucans can be any of the glucans described herein in various embodiments of the invention.

Once formulated the compositions of the invention can be administered directly to the subject. In some embodiments the subjects to be treated are animals including for example livestock. In some embodiments the animals to be treated are humans. In some embodiments males and or females can be treated with the compositions and or according to the methods of this invention. In some embodiments the subjects to be treated are children and or teenagers and or adults.

In one aspect of the present invention neutrophils induce heat shock protein HSP expression upon exposure to glucan. The greater the exposure to glucan the greater the expression of HSP and downstream immune modulation in some embodiments.

Microspheres coated with 1 6 glucan as opposed to 1 3 glucan were most effective at inducing HSP expression ROS production etc.

HSPs are already associated with peptides that could be presented on MHC class I and II of antigen presenting cells. In one embodiment following recognition of 1 6 glucan in a composition and or according to a method of this invention neutrophils in the subject to which the glucan is administered or with which its cells are contacted express HSPs to signal to other immune cells leading to presentation of other antigens on antigen presenting cells.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of modulating an immune response in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups or any embodiment thereof as herein described. In another embodiment this invention provides a method of modulating an immune response in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising 1 6 glucan conjugated to a solid support or any embodiment thereof as herein described. In another embodiment this invention provides a method of modulating an immune response in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising 1 6 glucan or any embodiment thereof as herein described. In one embodiment glucan in the composition comprises at least from about 35 99 by weight or in another embodiment from about 45 99 by weight or in another embodiment from about 55 99 by weight or in another embodiment from about 65 99 by weight or in another embodiment from about 75 99 by weight or in another embodiment from about 85 99 by weight or in another embodiment from about 90 99 by weight of 1 6 glucan as compared to any other glucan. In one embodiment the term about refers to a variance of from 1 10 or in another embodiment 5 15 or in another embodiment up to 10 or in another embodiment up to 25 variance from the indicated values except where context indicates that the variance should not result in a value exceeding 100 .

According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment modulating the immune response comprises stimulating said immune response which in one embodiment is an antigen specific response. In one embodiment the composition further comprises an immunostimulatory compound or in another embodiment a chemotherapeutic compound. In another embodiment the immune response is directed against an infectious agent a cancer a preneoplastic lesion or a combination thereof and the compositions comprising or administration of 1 6 glucan is useful in this context. In one embodiment according to this aspect of the invention additional agents may be administered or in another embodiment the compositions for use according to this aspect may comprise an additional agent which is useful in this context.

In one embodiment according to this aspect of the invention the additional agent may comprise an anti inflammatory agent such as betamethasone prednisolone piroxicam aspirin flurbiprofen and N 4 3 4 fluorophenoxy phenoxy 2 cyclopenten 1 yl N hyroxyurea an antiviral such as acyclovir nelfinavir or virazole an antibiotic such as ampicillin and penicillin G or belonging to the family of penicillines cephalosporins aminoglycosidics macrolides carbapenem and penem beta lactam monocyclic inhibitors of beta lactamases tetracyclins polipeptidic antibiotics chloramphenicol and derivatives fusidic acid lincomicyn novobiocine spectinomycin poly etheric ionophores quinolones an anti infective such as benzalkonium chloride or chlorhexidine dapsone chloramphenicol neomycin cefaclor cefadroxil cephalexin cephradine erythromycin clindamycin lincomycin amoxicillin ampicillin bacampicillin carbenicillin dicloxacillin cyclacillin picloxacillin hetacillin methicillin nafcillin oxacillin penicillin including penicillin G and penicillin V ticarcillin rifampin and tetracycline an antiinflammatory such as diflunisal ibuprofen indomethacin meclofenamate mefenamic acid naproxen oxyphenbutazone phenylbutazone piroxicam sulindac tolmetin aspirin and salicylates antifungal such as amphotericin B glucan synthesis inhibitors such as caspofungin micafungin or anidulafungin LY303366 econazole terconazole fluconazole voriconazole or griseofulvin an antiprotozoal such as metronidazole an imidazole type anti neoplastic such as tubulazole an anthelmintic agent such as thiabendazole or oxfendazole an antihistamine such as astemizole levocabastine cetirizine or cinnarizine a decongestant such as pseudoephedrine antipsychotics such as fluspirilene penfluridole risperidone or ziprasidone an antineoplastic agent such as platinum compounds e.g. spiroplatin cisplatin and carboplatin methotrexate fluorouracil adriamycin mitomycin ansamitocin bleomycin cytosine arabinoside arabinosyl adenine mercaptopolylysine vincristine busulfan chlorambucil melphalan e.g. PAM L PAM or phenylalanine mustard mercaptopurine mitotane procarbazine hydrochloride dactinomycin actinomycin D daunorubicin hydrochloride doxorubicin hydrochloride paclitaxel and other taxenes rapamycin manumycin A TNP 470 plicamycin mithramycin aminoglutethimide estramustine phosphate sodium flutamide leuprolide acetate megestrol acetate tamoxifen citrate testolactone trilostane amsacrine m AMSA asparaginase L asparaginase Erwina asparaginase interferon .alpha. 2a interferon .alpha. 2b teniposide VM 26 vinblastine sulfate VLB vincristine sulfate bleomycin sulfate hydroxyurea procarbazine and dacarbazine a mitotic inhibitor such as etoposide colchicine and the vinca alkaloids a radiopharmaceutical such as radioactive iodine and phosphorus product or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment modulating the immune response comprises stimulating the immune response which in one embodiment is an antigen specific response. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the composition further comprises an immuno stimulatory compound or in another embodiment a chemotherapeutic compound. In one embodiment the immune response is directed against an infectious agent a cancer a preneoplastic lesion or a combination thereof or any embodiment as herein described.

In some embodiments the compositions and or methods of this invention are applied to or useful in stimulating an immune system in an individual animal or human by the oral or parenteral administration of compositions containing the 3 glucans as herein described. In some embodiments such compositions and or methods are effective in boosting the immune response for example of individuals or patients who are injured immunocompromised or protein malnourished. An immunocompromised individual refers in some embodiments to a person who exhibits an attenuated or reduced ability to mount a normal cellular or humoral defense to challenge by infectious agents e.g. viruses bacteria fungi and protozoa. A protein malnourished individual refers in some embodiments to a person who has a serum albumin level of less than about 3.2 grams per deciliter g dl and or unintentional weight loss of greater than 10 of usual body weight.

In some embodiments the compositions and or methods of this invention are used to therapeutically or prophylactically treat animals or humans who are at a heightened risk of infection due to imminent surgery injury illness radiation or chemotherapy or other condition which deleteriously affects the immune system. In some embodiments the compositions and or methods of this invention are used to treat patients who have a disease or disorder which causes the normal immune response to be reduced or depressed such as HIV infection AIDS or who are receiving immunosuppressive therapy e.g. individuals who are transplant candidates or have received a transplant individuals suffering from an autoimmune disease etc. . In some embodiments the compositions and or methods of this invention are used to pre initiate a immune response in patients who are undergoing chemotherapy or radiation therapy or who are at a heightened risk for developing secondary infections or post operative complications because of a disease disorder or treatment resulting in a reduced ability to mobilize the body s normal responses to infection.

In another embodiment modulating the immune response comprises downmodulating or abrogating the immune response. According to this aspect and in one embodiment the composition further comprises an immunosuppressant. In one embodiment the immune response is directed against an autoantigen or in another embodiment an allergen or in another embodiment the immune response is directed against transplanted tissue or in another embodiment transplanted cells.

In one embodiment an immune response to a particular antigen may be initially beneficial to the host such as for example a response directed against an antigen from a pathogen that has invaded the subject. In one embodiment such an immune response may be too robust however such that even after the pathogen has been eradicated or controlled the immune response is sustained and causes damage to the host such as for example by causing tissue necrosis in tissue which formerly was infected with the pathogen. In these and other circumstances the compositions and or methods of this invention may be useful in downmodulating an immune response such that the host is not compromised in any way by the persistence of such an immune response.

In another embodiment the immune response whose downmodulation is desired is host versus graft disease. With the improvement in the efficiency of surgical techniques for transplanting tissues and organs such as skin kidney liver heart lung pancreas and bone marrow to subjects perhaps the principal outstanding problem is the immune response mounted by the recipient to the transplanted allograft or organ often resulting in rejection. When allogeneic cells or organs are transplanted into a host i.e. the donor and recipient are different individual from the same species the host immune system is likely to mount an immune response to foreign antigens in the transplant host versus graft disease leading to destruction of the transplanted tissue. Accordingly the compositions and or methods of this invention may be used in one embodiment to prevent such rejection of transplanted tissue or organ.

In another embodiment the immune response whose downmodulation is desired is graft versus host disease GVHD . GVHD is a potentially fatal disease that occurs when immunologically competent cells are transferred to an allogeneic recipient. In this situation the donor s immunocompetent cells may attack tissues in the recipient. Tissues of the skin gut epithelia and liver are frequent targets and may be destroyed during the course of GVHD. The disease presents an especially severe problem when immune tissue is being transplanted such as in bone marrow transplantation but less severe GVHD has also been reported in other cases as well including heart and liver transplants. The compositions and or methods of this invention may be used in one embodiment to preventing or ameliorating such disease.

In another embodiment the immune response whose down modulation is desired is any autoimmune response. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the method comprises administering the described compositions herein to a subject suffering from an autoimmune disease or disorder.

In one embodiment the term autoimmune disease refers to the presence of an autoimmune response in a subject. In one embodiment the term autoimmune response refers to an immune response directed against an auto or self antigen. In one embodiment the autoimmune disease is rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis diabetes mellitus myasthenia gravis pernicious anemia Addison s disease lupus erythematosus Reiter s syndrome atopic dermatitis psoriasis or Graves disease.

According to this aspect and in some embodiments the compositions of this invention may further comprise an immunosuppressant. In some embodiments the methods of this invention may make use of concurrent or subsequent administration of an immunosuppressant.

In one embodiment the autoimmune disease or disorder is associated with excessive neutrophil activity neutrophil infiltration neutrophil degranulation etc. In one embodiment the disorder is a disorder that affects the skin According to this aspect and in one embodiment the glucans compositions conjugates particles micelles etc. as described herein may be applied directly to the skin.

In one embodiment the composition further comprises a steroid. In some embodiments such compositions are useful for down modulating or abrogating an immune response and find application in any of the embodiments described herein for downmodulating such responses.

In one embodiment the term steroid refers to naturally occurring steroids and their derivatives as well as synthetic or semi synthetic steroid analogues having steroid like activity. In one embodiment the steroid is a glucocorticoid or corticosteroid. For example many such steroids have a core fused ring structure based on cyclopentanophenanthrene. Examples of specific natural and synthetic steroids include but are not limited to aldosterone beclomethasone betamethasone budesonide cloprednol cortisone cortivazol deoxycortone desonide desoximetasone dexamethasone difluorocortolone fluclorolone flumethasone flunisolide fluocinolone fluocinonide fluocortin butyl fluorocortisone fluorocortolone fluorometholone flurandrenolone fluticasone halcinonide hydrocortisone icomethasone meprednisone 25 methylprednisolone paramethasone prednisolone prednisone tixocortol or triamcinolone and their respective pharmaceutically acceptable salts or derivatives. It will be appreciated that combinations of such steroids may also be used in accordance with this invention.

In some embodiments such compositions are useful for stimulating or enhancing an immune response and find application in any of the embodiments described herein for stimulating or enhancing such responses. In one embodiment the steroid is an androgen or an androgen receptor agonist.

In another embodiment the composition comprises 1 3 glucans having 1 6 glucan branches also referred to as beta 1 3 1 6 glucan or beta 1 6 branched beta 1 3 glucan wherein at least some of the 1 6 glucan branches are enriched for O acetylated groups. In another embodiment the invention provides a composition comprising i 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups and ii 1 6 branched 3 1 3 glucan. In another embodiment the composition is substantially free of 1 3 glucan. In certain embodiments the composition contains less than 75 or less than 50 or less than 25 or less than 10 or less than 5 or less than 1 or less than 0.1 3 1 3 glucan by weight. In certain embodiments less than 50 or less than 25 or 10 or less than 5 or less than 1 or less than 0.1 of the total glucan in the composition by weight is 3 1 3 glucan.

It is to be understood that the downmodulation of any immune response via the compositions and or methods of this invention of this invention are to be considered as part of this invention and an embodiment thereof.

In one embodiment the compositions and or methods of this invention stimulate and or enhance the secretion of substances which mediate the suppressive effects. In one embodiment the compositions and or methods of this invention mediate bystander suppression without a need for direct cell contact. In one embodiment the substances mediating suppression secreted by the T suppressor cell populations of this invention may include IL 10 TGF or a combination thereof.

In another embodiment modulating the immune response may comprise shifting the cell type participating in the immune response cell product elaborated during the immune response and or the overall character of the response for example shifting a Th1 to Th2 type response or vice versa.

In one embodiment the methods compositions of this invention provide for eliciting a Th1 response in a disease where a so called Th2 type response has developed when the development of a so called Th1 type response is beneficial to the subject.

In one embodiment the term Th2 type response refers to a pattern of cytokine expression elicited by T Helper cells as part of the adaptive immune response which support the development of a robust antibody response. Typically Th2 type responses are beneficial in helminth infections in a subject for example. Typically Th2 type responses are recognized by the production of interleukin 4 or interleukin 10 for example.

In another embodiment the term Th1 type response refers to a pattern of cytokine expression elicited by T Helper cells as part of the adaptive immune response which support the development of robust cell mediated immunity. Typically Th1 type responses are beneficial in intracellular infections in a subject for example. Typically Th1 type responses are recognized by the production of interleukin 2 or interferon for example.

In another embodiment the compositions and or methods of this invention are useful in modulating the response such that where a Th1 type response has developed when Th2 type responses provide a more beneficial outcome to a subject the methods and or compositions of this invention provide for a shift to the more beneficial cytokine profile. One example would be in leprosy where the compositions and or methods of the present invention stimulate a Th1 cytokine shift resulting in tuberculoid leprosy as opposed to lepromatous leprosy a much more severe form of the disease associated with Th2 type responses.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of inducing expression of heat shock proteins in a cell e.g. an antigen presenting cell the method comprising contacting the antigen presenting cell with a composition comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of inducing expression of heat shock proteins in a cell e.g. an antigen presenting cell the method comprising contacting the antigen presenting cell with a composition comprising 1 6 glucan conjugated to a solid support.

As exemplified herein phagocytosis of particles comprising 1 6 glucan but not compositions comprising 1 3 glucan promoted heat shock protein hsp induction.

In one embodiment the cell is a neutrophil. In another embodiment the antigen presenting cell is a dendritic cell or a macrophage.

According to this aspect of the invention and in another embodiment this invention provides a method of inducing expression of heat shock proteins in cells e.g. antigen presenting cells neutrophils etc. the method comprising contacting the antigen presenting cells neutrophils with a composition comprising 1 6 glucan wherein at least 25 of the glucose units in at least 5 of the glucan molecules are enriched for O acetylated groups.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of stimulating or enhancing antigen presentation the method comprising contacting an antigen presenting cell with a composition comprising 1 6 glucan wherein said contact promotes or induces antigen presentation by said antigen presenting cell.

In one embodiment phagocytic cells undergo apoptosis following uptake of the 1 6 glucan. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the invention provides a method of promoting or stimulating cellular apoptosis the method comprising contacting a cell with a composition comprising 1 6 glucan wherein the composition induces expression of at least one heat shock protein in said cell and subsequent apoptosis of said cell. According to this aspect and in one embodiment the cell is from a subject with an infection or autoimmune disease and promoting apoptosis of such cells provides a therapeutic effect in the subject.

In some embodiments this invention provides a method of modulating macrophage responsiveness comprising contacting macrophages with neutrophils that have been contacted with a composition comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method modulating an immune response in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a 1 6 glucan physically associated with a targeting moiety wherein the targeting moiety specifically interacts with or attracts a phagocytic cell.

In one embodiment modulating said immune response comprises stimulating said immune response which in one embodiment is an antigen specific response. In one embodiment the composition further comprises an immuno stimulatory compound or in another embodiment the composition further comprises a chemotherapeutic compound. In one embodiment the immune response is directed against an infectious agent a cancer a preneoplastic lesion or a combination thereof and in another embodiment the immune response is complement dependent.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of treating delaying progression of or reducing the incidence or severity of an infection in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising a 1 6 glucan physically associated with a targeting moiety wherein the targeting moiety specifically interacts with or attracts a phagocytic cell. In one embodiment the composition further comprises an adjuvant an antigen a peptide an immuno stimulatory compound a chemotherapeutic or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the antigen or peptide is derived from the source of the infection. In another embodiment the immuno stimulatory compound is a cytokine. In another embodiment the chemotherapeutic compound is an antibiotic or antiviral compound.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of stimulating or enhancing heat shock protein expression in a cell the method comprising contacting the cell with comprising a 1 6 glucan physically associated with a targeting moiety wherein the targeting moiety specifically interacts with or attracts a phagocytic cell.

In some embodiments the methods of this invention serve to enhance the activity of a variety of cells of the immune system cells such as macrophages dendritic cells etc. in some embodiments in addition to or in some embodiments instead of neutrophils.

In some embodiments the methods of this invention serve as a general approach to promoting cellular cytotoxic effects via use of a ligand which serves to target the cell or material against which a cytotoxic response is desired conjugated to a glucan of this invention which in turn serves in some embodiments to promote cytotxicity against the targeted cell or material.

In some embodiments the glucans as described herein compositions comprising same and 1 6 glucan physically associated with a targeting moiety and compositions comprising the same may function to enhance complement mediated lysis in a subject. In some embodiments such enhancement may involve the phagocytic cell response for example enhancing neutrophil or macrophage or other professional antigen presenting cell phagocytosis and cytotoxic responses. In some embodiments such enhancement may be independent of phagocytic cell involvement for example by enhancing membrance attack complex formation and or activity.

In some embodiments this invention provides a method of treating delaying progression of prolonging remission of or reducing the incidence or severity of cancer in a subject via contacting a cell in a subject or administering to the subject a glucan composition conjugate micelle preparation or particle of this invention.

In some embodiments the invention is to be understood as encompassing compositions that comprise and conjugates comprising any compound that facilitates immune cell recruitment for example cells of the innate immune response such as neutrophils. Such a compound is referred to herein as inter alia a targeting moiety which facilitates immune cell activation stimulatory immune responses cytotoxicity against a desired target which in some embodiments is specifically targeted through the described moiety for example via the specificity dictated by antibody or fragment conjugated or associated with the glucan.

In some embodiments the invention comprises conjugates and compositions comrprising an antibody with a desired specificity to suit a particular application as described herein and as wil be appreciated by the skilled artisan. In some embodiments such conjugates and compositions preparations as described herein may comprise inter alia any complement fixing compound known in the art. In some embodiments conjugates and compositions preparations as described herein specifically exclude cobra venom factor yet make use of any other complement fixing compound. In some embodiments the conjugates and compositions preparations as described herein may comprise any polysaccharide except dextran. In some embodiments the conjugates and compositions preparations as described herein may comprise any glucan including inter alia acetylated 1 6 glucan 1 6 glucan mix of 1 3 glucan and 1 6 glucan 1 3 glucan mix of 1 3 glucan 1 4 glucan 1 4 glucan acetylated glucans and or any glucan comprising any other modification. In some embodiments the conjugates and compositions preparations as described herein may comprise any glucan including genetically engineered forms for example glucans synthesized in bacteria yeast mammalian cells etc. by recombinant means.

In some embodiments the conjugates and compositions preparations as described herein may be applied for the immunization of a subject against and other fungal infection.

In any of the afore mentioned embodiments the contacting may occur either outside the body of a subject or within the body. In one embodiment cells such as antigen presenting cells which in some embodiments are neutrophils or macrophages or dendritic cells are removed from a subject contacted with the composition and then administered to the subject at a subsequent point in time. In one embodiment the cells are contacted with the composition for a time sufficient to induce expression of heat shock proteins. In one embodiment the cells are contacted with the composition for a time sufficient to induce production of reactive oxygen species. In one embodiment the subject receives immunosuppressive therapy prior to administration of the cells. For example a subject may be in need of immunosuppressive therapy for organ transplantation or other purposes e.g. chemotherapy or radiation therapy for cancer leukemia lymphoma or any type of tumor wherein the therapy would tend to render the individual immunocompromised. In one embodiment of the invention prior to administering the immunosuppressive therapy immune system cells are removed from the subject. The cells which in some embodiments are neutrophils or in other embodiments other immune system cells such as other professional antigen presenting cells such as macrophages or dendritic cells are contacted outside the body with a composition of this invention and are then returned to the subject a suitable period of time after the subject has received the immunosuppressive therapy. The suitable period of time could be e.g. after the therapy has been administered or its cytotoxic effects have diminished when the subject is at risk of or exhibits symptoms or signs of infection etc.

It is to be understood that the methods and or compositions of this invention which by affecting modulating an immune response in turn prevent disease and or ameliorate disease and or alter disease progression are to be considered as part of this invention.

In some embodiments the term contacting or administering refers to both direct and indirect exposure to the indicated material.

In some embodiments the compositions and or methods of this invention comprise or make use of a non sterile or sterile carrier or carriers for administration to cells tissues or organisms such as a pharmaceutical carrier suitable for administration to an individual. Such carriers may include but are not limited to saline buffered saline dextrose water glycerol and combinations thereof. The formulation should suit the mode of administration.

The compositions or glucans of this invention may be administered in any effective convenient manner including for instance administration by intravascular i.v. intramuscular i.m. intranasal i.n. subcutaneous s.c. oral rectal intravaginal delivery or by any means in which the glucan composition can be delivered to tissue e.g. needle or catheter . Alternatively topical administration may be desired for insertion into epithelial cells. Another method of administration is via aspiration or aerosol formulation. In some embodiments the glucan is administered by implanting or introducing into the body of a subject an implant or other medical or surgical device that comprises the glucan e.g. as a component of a coating layer.

In one embodiment the invention provides a food supplement comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups. In one embodiment the invention provides a food product comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups. In another embodiment the invention provides a cosmetic composition comprising 1 6 glucan enriched for O acetylated groups.

In some embodiments a food or food product is any substance that is substantially non toxic that can be metabolized by an organism to give energy and build tissue. In some embodiments a food or food product denotes a product intended for ingestion by a mammal e.g by humans which has nutritional value. In some embodiments a food or food product denotes a product regulated as a food or food product by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA . In some embodiments a food or food product is a product packaged in a container bearing a label indicating that the product is a food or food product. In some embodiments a food or food product is a product packaged in a container bearing a label providing nutritional information regarding the product such as the calorie fat or protein content or the content of one or more vitamins or minerals. In some embodiments a food supplement also referred to as a dietary supplement is any substance that is added to a food or food product. In some embodiments the food supplement comprises in addition to a glucan of this invention one or more essential nutrients such as vitamins minerals and protein. In some embodiments the food supplement is any product intended for ingestion as a supplement to the diet and may comprise in addition to a glucan of this invention one or more vitamins minerals herbs botanicals and other plant derived substances amino acids and concentrates metabolites constituents and extracts of these substances. In some embodiments the food food product food supplement or cosmetic composition is not intended to diagnose cure mitigate treat or prevent disease. In some embodiments the food supplement is provided in a container or other packaging material labeled to indicate that the contents are a food or dietary supplement e.g. in accordance with then current U.S. law and or FDA guidelines. In some embodiments the food supplement or product comprises about 0.01 to 30 w w of the glucan and may additionally comprise vitamins oligosaccharides dietary ingredients proteins or a combination thereof.

In some embodiments the ratio of the components is not fixed or in other embodiments such ratio may range from about 0.01 to 30 w w per 100 w w . Examples of food comprising aforementioned glucan of this invention therein are various food beverage gum vitamin complex health improving food and the like.

The composition may additionally comprise one or more than one of organic acid such as citric acid fumaric acid adipic acid lactic acid malic acid phosphate such as phosphate sodium phosphate potassium phosphate acid pyrophosphate polyphosphate natural anti oxidants such as polyphenol catechin alpha tocopherol rosemary extract vitamin C licorice root extract chitosan tannic acid phytic acid etc.

In some embodiments a cosmetic or personal care composition is a composition that enhances or improves the appearance of at least a portion of the body e.g. hair nails skin etc. In one embodiment the composition beautifies the body. In one embodiment the composition restores a more youthful appearance. In one embodiment any composition applied or delivered to a subject is considered a cosmetic is it is administered for purposes of enhancing or improving the appearance of at least a portion of the body e.g. hair nails skin etc. or for restoring a more youthful appearance. In some embodiments the cosmetic or personal care compositions of this invention may comprise an emollient moisturizing agent soothing agent ultraviolet A or B blocking agent retinoid coloring agent or fragrance etc. In some embodiments the cosmetic or personal care composition contains in addition to a glucan of this invention any other component recognized in the art as being useful in providing a beneficial effect to the appearance. In some embodiments the cosmetic or personal care composition is provided in a container labeled to indicate its intended use as a cosmetic and or labeled to indicate that it is for external use only.

In some embodiments the compositions of this invention are formulated as a topical ointment lotion gel or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.0001 to 50 w w e.g. 0.075 to 20 w w including active ingredient s in a range between 0.1 and 20 in increments of 0.1 w w such as 0.6 w w 0.7 w w etc. often 0.2 to 15 w w and most often 0.5 to 10 w w . In some embodiments when formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. In some embodiments the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base.

In some embodiments the aqueous phase of the cream base may include for example at least 30 w w of a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the topical formulations may include a compound that enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient s through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulphoxide and related analogs.

In some embodiments the compositions of this invention may make use of emulgents and or emulsion stabilizers such as for example Tween60 Span80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and or sodium lauryl sulfate.

In some embodiments the choice of suitable oils or fats for the formulation is based on achieving the desired cosmetic properties. Creams are generally non greasy non staining and washable products with suitable consistency to avoid leakage from tubes or other containers. Straight or branched chain mono or dibasic alkyl esters such as di isoadipate isocetyl stearate propylene glycol diester of coconut fatty acids isopropyl myristate decyl oleate isopropyl palmitate butyl stearate 2 ethylhexyl palmitate or a blend of branched chain esters known as Crodamol CAP may be used. These may be used alone or in combination depending on the properties required. In some embodiments high melting point lipids such as white soft paraffin and or liquid paraffin or other mineral oils are used.

In some embodiments the compositions are formulated for use as eye drops wherein the active ingredient s is dissolved or suspended in a suitable excipient s for example an aqueous solvent for active ingredient s that comprise one or more charges at pH values near neutrality e.g. about pH 6 8. In some embodiments the active ingredient s is present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 20 w w typically about 1 10 w w often about 2 5 w w.

In some embodiments the compositions of this invention are formulated for topical administration in the mouth and may include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis which may comprise sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient s in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia or others or mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid excipient s or others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.01 to 500 microns including average particle sizes in a range between 0.01 and 500 microns in 0.1 micron or other increments e.g. 0.05 0.1 0.5 1 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 6 7 8 9 10 20 25 30 35 50 75 100 etc. microns which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable micronized formulations include aqueous or oily solutions or suspensions of the active ingredient s . Formulations suitable for aerosol dry powder or tablet administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis of viral or other infections as described herein. Such formulation may be administered e.g. orally parenterally i.v. i.m. s.c. topically or by a buccal route. According to this aspect of the invention and in some embodiments the 1 6 glucan utilized in the composition is enriched for O acetylated glucan as herein described conjugated to a particle or bead as herein described or a combination thereof.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient s such excipients as are known in the art to be appropriate.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

The formulations are presented in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid excipient for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as recited herein or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient s .

In some embodiments the glucans of this invention in any of its forms as described herein will be administered to a subject at a dosage of 0.1 mg to about 50 mg kg weight of the subject. In some embodiments the glucans of this invention will be administered according to any regimen in terms of the number of times per day duration of time etc. which may be adjusted as a part of a course of therapy for a subject as will be appreciated by the skilled artisan.

It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned above the formulations of this invention may include other agents or excipients conventional in the art having regard to the type of formulation in question for example those suitable for oral administration may include flavoring agents.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the compositions use and preparations of the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention.

For administration to mammals and particularly humans it is expected that in the case of medications the physician or other qualified healthcare provider may determine the actual dosage and duration of treatment which will be most suitable for an individual and can vary with the age weight and response of the particular individual. It will be appreciated that in the case of non prescription e.g. over the counter medications foods food products food supplements cosmetic and personal care compositions the amount may be determined at the discretion of the user optionally with guidance from the labeling or from an appropriate health care provider or other advisor.

Neutrophils and monocytes were isolated as described Rubin Bejerano I. et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2003. 100 19 p. 11007 12 from fresh human blood collected from healthy volunteers in accordance with a protocol approved by the MIT Committee on Use of Humans as Experimental Subjects.

The strain was the commonly used laboratory strain CAF2 1 Ca . was grown on standard media YPD as described Sherman supra . Overnight cultures were used in all experiments about 3 10cells ml because the population was found to be more homogenous contain 99 yeast form cells than in mid logarithmic phase.

In order to test how neutrophils recognize fungi and to avoid any alteration of fungi by media or neutrophils or manipulation of neutrophils by the fungi fungi were inactivated by UV which kills the cells but does not alter the fungal cell wall structure Wheeler R. T. and G. R. Fink PLoS Pathog 2006. 2 4 p. e35 .

A pool of fresh human serum was generated from ten healthy volunteers and was used for all experiments. Fungal cells were pre opsonized in 50 serum in Dulbecco s phosphate buffered saline without calcium chloride and without magnesium chloride Gibco for 15 minutes at 37 C. on a mixer. Cells were then incubated on ice for 5 minutes washed twice with 0.04 mg ml of the protease inhibitor AEBSF Sigma in the same buffer and then washed twice with the same buffer without AEBSF. Fungal cells were recounted.

Neutrophils or monocytes were mixed with cells at ratio of 1 5 phagocyte target. Phagocytes were cultured with opsonized fungi or alone in RPMI1640 at 37 C. for 2 hours and were frozen in TRI reagent MRC at 80 C.

Total RNA was prepared following the TRI reagent protocol except that for RNA precipitation it was incubated with isopropanol overnight at 4 C. First and second strand synthesis in vitro transcription hybridization and scanning were done as described before Rubin Bejerano I. et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2003. 100 19 p. 11007 12 . The microarrays were GeneChip Human Genome U133A 2.0 array Affymetrix .

Data sets were normalized and floored to 20. Ratios of expression from neutrophils cultured with divided by that from the neutrophils alone control were calculated. Induced and repressed genes were defined as those with an expression ratio greater than two standard deviations from the mean for a given experiment. Only genes that were consistently induced or repressed in two experimental duplicates were considered as induced or repressed.

Total RNA was prepared following the TRI reagent protocol except that for RNA precipitation it was incubated with isopropanol overnight at 4 C. cDNA was created using High Capacity cDNA Archive Kit Applied Biosystems . Quantitative RT PCR was done using TaqMan Gene Expression Assays Applied Biosystems and 7500 Real Time PCR system Applied Biosystems following the manufacturer protocol. The following TaqMan Gene Expression Assays were used ACTB Hs99999903 ml DNAJB1 Hs00428680 ml HSPCB Hs00607336 gH HSPH1 Hs00198379 m1 CXCL2 Hs00236966 m1 and CCL3 Hs00234142 m1 . Fold induction was calculated as the ratio of expression from phagocytes cultured in an experimental condition divided by that from the phagocytes alone control.

Laminarin Sigma is a pure 1 3 glucan preparation and Pustulan Calbiochem is a pure 1 6 glucan preparation. Dextran Fluka is an 1 6 glucan. Glucan from barley Sigma is composed of 1 3 glucan 30 and 1 4 glucan 70 . Pustulan was processed as described Lindberg B. and J. McPherson Acta Chem. Scand. 1954. 8 p. 985 988. . When indicated pustulan was specifically digested using an endo 1 6 glucanase Lora J. M. De la Cruz J. Llobell A. Benitez T. and Pintor Toro J. A. Mol Gen Genet. 1995. 247 p. 639 45. . The enzyme was a kind gift from Dr. Nick Zecherle Biomarin Pharmaceutical Inc . The reaction products were analyzed by gel filtration and thin layer chromatography.

Pustulan 20 mg was applied to a BioGel P6 column 1.5 120 cm BioRad 200 400 mesh . The column was equilibrated in 0.1 M acetic acid and run at a constant flow rate of 15 ml h 1.5 ml fractions were collected and carbohydrate was measured by the phenol sulfuric acid method. Fractions containing the peaks were dried twice for complete elimination of acetic acid and suspended in water at 10 20 mg ml. Cytochrome C was used as a marker of the exclusion volume and glucose as a marker of the inclusion volume.

Samples 5 l were ascended twice on silica gel 60 plates Merck 0.25 mm 20 cm length. The solvent system was n butanol ethanol water 5 3 2 . The samples and standards were visualized by heating the plates at 80 C. after spraying with phenol sulfuric acid. Standard gentiooligosaccharides were prepared from partial acid hydrolysate of pustulan and isolated by BioGel P4 chromatography as described Magnelli P. Cipollo J. F. and Abeijon C. 2002 . Anal Biochem 301 136 150. .

Pustulan 3 ml 15 mg ml was adjusted to 0.1 M NaOH and incubated for 1 hr at 37 C. and dialyzed against water.

Polybead polystyrene 6.0 micron microspheres Polysciences Inc. were coated with polysaccharides as described Schlesinger L. S. S. R. Hull and T. M. Kaufman J Immunol 1994. 152 8 p. 4070 9 . Pustulan tends to solidify at room temperature.

RT PCR was performed as described above for . Fold induction was calculated as the ratio of expression from neutrophils cultured with carbohydrate coated beads over neutrophils cultured with untreated beads.

ROS production was assayed using DHR123 Molecular Probes which becomes fluorescent when oxidized . 5 10neutrophils were cultured with indicated beads at ratio of 1 5 in volume of 1 ml for 1 hr at 37 C. 1 l of DHR123 D 23806 was added to 200 l of culture. Following incubation at room temperature for 30 minutes the cells were assayed by Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorting FACS .

Beads were coated with equivalent amounts of 1 3 glucan and 1 6 glucan and opsonized as described above. Beads were suspended in 2 SDS 1M ammonium hydroxide buffer and incubated at 37 C. for 1 hour. The supernatant was loaded on 4 20 acrylamide SDS gel. The gel was stained with silver stain and bands were cut for analysis by mass spec.

Western analysis of C3. C3 deposition was assayed using monoclonal antibodies directed against the alpha or the beta chain of C3b RDI Reasearch Diagnostics .

Viability of was determined using XTT as described before Meshulam T. Levitz S. M. Christin L. and Diamond R. D. 1995 . J Infect Dis 172 1153 1156 .

Serum was preincubated with equivalent amount of soluble laminarin or pustulan for 5 minutes at 37 C. The serum was then used to opsonize pustulan coated beads as described above.

Neutrophils were preincubated with anti human Mac 1 or isotype control IgG Bender Med Systems for 30 minutes on ice before adding to opsonized pustulan coated beads.

The strain CAF2 1 was used to analyze the response of neutrophils to fungi. Microarray experiments showed that neutrophils phagocytosing express heat shock proteins HSPs The 10 kDa HSPE1 40 kDa DNAJB1 DNAJB9 70 kDa HSPA1A and HSPA9B 90 kDa HSPCA and HSPCB and 105 110 kDa HSPH1 Table 2 along with cytokines and chemokines such as the IL 8 receptor ligand CXCL2 and CCL3.

The induction of HSPs was greater if was first heated to unmask the underlying glucan suggesting that expression of HSPs is proportional to exposed glucan.

To assay which of the glucan components was responsible for this induction neutrophils were presented with various glucan polymers. Glucans in the soluble form elicited only low levels of HSPs in neutrophils .

As neutrophils respond best to particulate material several sources of glucan were conjugated to 6 micron polystyrene beads which are similar in size to yeast form cells 5 1 3 glucan and 1 6 glucan purified from cell walls were utilized as well as non fungal sources of 1 3 glucan and 1 6 glucan that have been used as standards in previous studies Brown G. D. et al. Nature 413 36 7 Palma A. S. et al. J Biol Chem 281 5771 9 .

Beads coated with pustulan or 1 6 glucan from elicited high levels of HSPs in neutrophils D whereas beads coated with laminarin or 1 3 glucan from elicited minimal expression of HSPs D despite efficient coating of the beads. glucan from barley which is composed of 1 3 glucan 30 and 1 4 glucan 70 also did not elicit HSPs expression . Beads coated with 1 6 glucan dextran did not elicit any response suggesting that the neutrophil response is specific to the configuration. Elicitation of HSPs required heat labile serum components as pustulan coated beads did not elicit HSPs when opsonized with heat inactivated HI serum . Acetylated 1 6 glucan elicited higher levels of HSPs than non acetylated 1 6 glucan compare to and to with 1 6 glucan possessing greater stimulatory capability than 1 3 glucan D .

To confirm that elicitation by pustulan is due to 1 6 glucan the pustulan was digested with an endoglucanase specific for the 1 6 glucan linkage Lora J. M. et al. 247 639 45 .

The digestion product resulted in 80 reduction in elicitation of HSPs . Analysis of the digestion products of pustulan by P 6 size columns see Methods revealed a major peak of small products compare B to C composed of di and tri saccharides as determined by TLC G2 G3 compare lane 2 and 3 . These short polymers in the G2 G3 fraction did not coat the beads efficiently.

In addition to the expected products of digestion by the 1 6 glucanase which constitute the vast majority of the pustulan there was a small peak that was resistant to the enzyme designated as Vo corresponding to 4 5 of the starting material. The material in this peak was recognized by the anti glucan antibody and elicited expression of the HSPs in the neutrophils. In order to determine whether the small peak resistant to enzymatic digestion was a modified form of the polymer e.g. an acetylated form the product was deacetylated.

Deacetylation of pustulan prior to fractionation virtually abolished this minor component and rendered this residuum unable to elicit HSPs . These experiments show that the pustulan is a polymer of 1 6 glucose containing a small amount of O acetylated or otherwise O modified 1 6 glucan. The residual induction of HSPs by pustulan digested with the endo 1 6 glucanase may be attributed to O acetylated pustulan that was resistant to the enzyme and coated the beads efficiently.

Polybead polystyrene microspheres beads were coated with glucans and then opsonized. Phagocytosis of beads coated with laminarin a and b or pustulan c and d was assessed by time lapse microscopy.

Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorting FACS analysis of neutrophils ingesting beads revealed that beads coated with pustulan were more efficiently internalized than beads coated with laminarin although laminarin promoted internalization better than uncoated beads compare panel e to c and a respectively .

Since killing of pathogens by neutrophils depends on a burst of reactive oxygen species ROS Babior B. M. et al. J Clin Invest 52 741 4 ROS induction by either of the two glucans was evaluated. ROS could not be detected in neutrophils alone or in neutrophils presented with beads that had not been treated red and green respectively . Low levels were detected with beads coated with laminarin 1 3 glucan from or glucan from barley blue brown and purple respectively . However beads coated with pustulan stimulated the generation of significant amounts of ROS light blue . No ROS was detected by adding soluble pustulan pink . These data show that 1 6 glucan evokes a massive production of ROS whereas the response to 1 3 glucan is much lower by comparison.

Similarly in 1 6 glucan is shown to be required for efficient phagocytosis of production of ROS and expression of HSPs with samples subjected to 1 6 glucanase digestion showing reduced efficacy.

As serum is required for phagocytosis and the induction of HSPs by beads coated with 1 6 glucan it was of interest to determine whether there was a serum component that was differentially deposited on beads coated with 1 6 glucan or 1 3 glucan. Beads were coated with laminarin or pustulan and opsonized. Bound proteins were removed from beads and separated by SDS gel electrophoresis. Although a number of serum proteins bound both 1 3 glucan or 1 6 glucan there were two prominent proteins that adhered more avidly to 1 6 glucan . These proteins were extracted from the gel and subjected to analysis by mass spectrometry. The peptides from these bands gave masses that identified both proteins as C3 suggesting that proteolytic fragments of C3 are deposited more avidly on 1 6 glucan than 1 3 glucan.

Western analysis revealed that indeed 1 6 glucan was deposited with more C3 . Antibodies specific for the alpha chain detected high molecular weight bands including bands the size of the complete C3 or C3b 105 and 115 kDa respectively as well as a lower molecular doublet the size of C3d 31 and 33 kDa a . Beads coated with laminarin had low levels of these C3 fragments a . Antibodies specific for the C3 beta chain revealed only the high molecular weight C3 C3b b . The 75 kDa chain of C3b or iC3b were not detected b .

To assess further the differences in C3 deposition on 1 6 glucan as compared with 1 3 glucan serum was preincubated with soluble pustulan or laminarin before using it to opsonize beads coated with pustulan. Preincubation of the serum with soluble pustulan eliminated phagocytosis compare c and a and ROS production compare red and blue by neutrophils suggesting that serum C3 was titrated out by the soluble 1 6 glucan. Serum that was preincubated with an equivalent amount of soluble laminarin still mediated phagocytosis compare b and a and ROS production compare red and green suggesting that 1 3 glucan did not efficiently block the interaction of C3 with beads coated with pustulan.

Western analysis revealed that preincubation with soluble pustulan eliminated most of the C3 C3b and C3d deposition on the pustulan coated beads compare 1 to 3 . Preincubation with laminarin eliminated the low molecular weight C3d doublet but retained the high molecular weight C3 C3b compare 2 to 3 suggesting that the remaining C3 C3b was mediating phagocytosis and induction of ROS and B . Preincubation of serum with soluble pustulan reduced killing .

Complement receptor 3 CR3 is known to mediate phagocytosis of opsonized yeast and the yeast cell wall preparation zymosan as well as ROS production thusCR3 mediated phagocytosis of beads coated with 1 6 glucan. Anti human CR3 blocking antibodies reduced the extent of phagocytosis compare b to a and ROS production compare red to green suggesting that CR3 recognized C3b proteolytic fragments C3d that are deposited on particulate 1 6 glucan.

To assess the role of 1 6 glucans in eliciting chemokines in monocytes polybead polystyrene microspheres beads were coated with equivalent amounts of the 1 3 glucan laminarin lam or the 1 6 glucan pustulan pus . Beads were opsonized with pooled human serum. Monocytes were cultured for 2 hours with 5 mg ml of soluble lam or pus or with the beads described above. Induction of chemokines was determined by quantitative real time PCR. Results were averaged and standard deviations were calculated .

In order to determine whether the activity of neutrophils may be enhanced physical linkage of the polysaccharide to targeting agents such as monoclonal antibodies with appropriate specificity was pursued.

Under such a scenario deposition of complement on the 1 6 glucan polysaccharide is expected to recruit neutrophils and enhance engulfment of the whole complex . Some antibodies are specifically known to bind complement poorly for example IgG2 and IgG4 . The differential ability of human IgG1 and IgG4 to activate complement is determined by the COOH terminal sequence of the CH2 domain and this technology would enhance their efficacy.

The linkage between polysaccharide and antibody can be accomplished via any number of means including protocols described for linking polysaccharides to proteins e.g. Bystricky S et al. Glycoconj J. 2000 October 17 10 677 80 and Tianhong Chen et al. Langmuir 2003 19 9382 9386 . Another means of such linkage comprises modifying the reducing end of the polysaccharide to comprise an amino group as described Xia B et al. Nat. Methods. 2005 November 2 11 845 50 Valdivia A et al. J. Biotechnol. 2006 Apr. 10 122 3 326 33 . The amino group could then be coupled to the carboxyl terminus of the antibody.

Toward this end pustulan a 20 KDa 1 6 glucan polysaccharide which has 10 20 O acetyl groups was linked to an anti monoclonal antibody following previous methods for linking mannan to BSA Bystricky S et al. Glycoconj J. 2000 October 17 10 677 80 . The product was dialyzed against water and complexes larger than 100 kDa were isolated using the appropriate cutoff columns . A fraction was isolated that was larger than 100 kDa and exhibited characteristic bands of the antibody and a smear indicative of the presence of the polysaccharide indicating the two were in the same fraction. Since the molecular weight of the polysaccharide is 20 Kda this suggests that the polysaccharide and the antibody were linked together.

Sugar quantification was accomplished using a described phenol sulfuric acid method Duboius M. Gilles K. A. Hamilton J. K. Rebers P. A. and Smith F. 1956 . Anal Biochem 28 350 356 . The presence of polysaccharide in the fraction larger than 100 kDa was thereby confirmed.

The effect of the modified antibody on the production of ROS by neutrophils cultured with was assessed. Neutrophils cultured with in the presence of the untreated antibody produced low levels of ROS . Antibody covalently bound to the polysaccharide however elicited high ROS production by neutrophils. Mixing untreated antibody with the polysaccharide without covalently attaching them did not produce a comparable effect indicating that the polysaccharide must be bound to the antibody to elicit ROS production.

Since complement activation was mediated by 1 6 glucan in vitro it was of interest to determine whether such protective responses could be elicited in vivo in mouse models. Toward this end it was first determined whether murine serum activates complement . Beads coated with pustulan 1 6 glucan and opsonized with murine serum showed complement activation as compared to those coated with laminarin 1 3 glucan . Mice injected with cells 10 iv followed by injection of 10 1 6 glucan coated beads or untreated beads were evaluated for survival with treatmed mice demonstrated significantly prolonged survival as compared to untreated mice.

PLGA beads encapsulating 1 6 glucan elicited production of reactive oxygen species and protected mice from systemic fungal infection . PLGA beads encapsulating 1 6 glucan elicited higher levels of reactive oxygen species Panel B and markedly enhanced survival panel C as compared to PLGA beads encapsulating 1 3 glucan.

Since complement activation was mediated by 1 6 glucan in vitro it was of interest to determine whether immunolglobulin deposition was elicited as well. Toward this end beads treated with pustulan 1 6 glucan and laminarin 1 3 glucan as well as untreated beads were opsonized and evaluated for IgM and IgG deposition .

Markedly enhanced IgG deposition occurred on pustulan treated beads as compared to laminarin or untreated beads.

The solvent evaporation encapsulation method is commonly used to make biodegradable polymer microparticles of polymers such as PLGA and PLA because these poly acids are highly biocompatible and have favorable biodegradation kinetics. Solvent evaporation encapsulation involves several steps and common variations 

The solvent must be immiscible with water and be a suitable solvent for the medicament or be immiscible with another solvent which is a suitable solvent for the medicament such that a primary emulsion of polymer and drug can be made or there must be another method of dispersing the medicament in the polymer solution.

The solubility of 1 6 glucan was determined in a number of solvents potentially useful in multiple solvent microemulsion protocols by adding 10 mg mL of solid 1 6 glucan to the solvents at room temperature and observing degree of dissolution. Water miscible solvents include water DMSO methanol and ethanol. Water immiscible solvents include acetone methylene chloride and ethyl acetate. 1 6 glucan demonstrated solubility 10 mg mL in only DMSO but was soluble at lower concentrations in water.

Using a standard protocol for a W O W emulsion 1 6 glucan was encapsulated using water as the inner phase methylene chloride as the oil phase and water as the outer phase. Concentrations of 25 mg mL in the inner aqueous phase were achieved by first dissolving 1 6 glucan in DMSO and then adding to water. The resulting particles labeled 2 were tested on neturophils and did not demonstrate activity.

Nanoprecipitation is a simple method which is useful for making polymer nanoparticles which entrap drug. Nanoprecipitation techniques typically include the following steps 

Since 1 6 glucan and PLGA are highly soluble in DMSO and non soluble in water nanoparticles over a range of glucan PLGA ratios should be possible. The following conditions were tested 

At concentrations above 80 1 6 glucan particles would no longer form. The resulting particles were tested on neturophils and did not demonstrate activity.

 1 6 glucan was dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide at room temperature 50 mg mL and diluted with an equal volume of deionized water. This mixture was added to a solution of PLGA in dichloromethane under sonication with a probe sonicator.

The DMSO water glucan solution was miscible with the PLGA Dichloromethane solution and formed a single phase. When DMSO water glucan solution was injected into dichloromethane under stirring not sonication precipitation of the 1 6 glucan occurred and the precipitate formed a stringy gel during nanoprecipitation procedure . Under sonication the precipitation appeared to generate a cloudy solution which was likely a nano suspension or emulsion which was suspended in a secondary external emulsion.

The suspension generated above was added to a solution of 1 polyvinyl alcohol in water and homonogized to generate polymer microparticles. Evaporation of dichloromethane proceeded during 3 hours of stiffing at atmospheric conditions.

The resulting particles were washed 3 times with deionozed water and lyophilized to give a dry powder.

Some monoclonal antibodies mAb have good affinity to their target but do not elicit a good immune response. Some mAb could become more efficacious if they had better complement fixing properties. In some embodiments of this invention the above described limitations in mAb use are addressed in term of changes in effect of conjugating 1 6 glucan to mAb for example on their complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC properties.

The 1 6 glucan polysaccharide is conjugated directly to an Fc portion of a mAb for example by oxidation of the polysaccharide and or antibody with sodium meta periodate. Various diamine linkers including PEG diamines as well as biotin avidin streptavidin based conjugation are tested. Conjugates are monitored to ensure that they retain specificity to the target retain complement fixing properties of the polysaccharide and are soluble.

Conjugates may comprise for example an anti Candida mAb or other mAb directed against cell wall structures such as different mannans and glucans are tested.

 1 6 glucan is conjugated to a set of syngeneic monoclonal antibodies having the same specificity to a target cell same Fab region but different conserved regions Fc which have different complement fixing properties. The polysaccharide is conjugated to IgG2a and IgG2b and the capacity of these antibodies to carry out CDC and or ADCC in vitro is tested using dyes that are excluded by live cells such as propidium iodide or by radio isotopes that are released by dead cells such as 51 chromium ToxiLight which detects adenylate kinase etc. .

The polysaccharide conjugated antibodies are compared to the respective unconjugated antibodies mixed with the polysaccharide without covlanet binding or the syngeneic IgG1 for increased CDC. Antibodies showing enhanced CDC in association with the conjugated polysaccharide are tested in vivo in a model for these cells. Mice are injected with the target cells followed by the unconjugated antibodies the conjugated antibodies or isotype control antibodies and monitored for survival.

Conjugation of the polysaccharides to FDA approved mAb including Alemtuzumab Campath Bevacizumab Avastin Cetuximab Erbitux Gemtuzumab Mylotarg Ibritumomab Zevalin Panitumumab Vectibix Rituximab Rituxan Tositumomab Bexxar Trastuzumab Herceptin Palivizumab Synagis are tested as well for increased mAb efficacy. Other mAb which may be tested may comprise such mAB which have been shown to lack adequate immune stimulation in clinical trials in protection studies whose immune stimulatory capacity may be enhanced by their conjugation to the glucans of this invention.

Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death among women in the western world and the leading cause of death among women between the ages of 30 and 70. The highest mortality is restricted to patients whose regional lymph nodes are involved. Early detection followed by surgery provides good prognosis. In patients with occult lymph node metastasis adjuvant chemotherapy or hormonal therapy for breast cancer have proven to be effective yet may patients will succumb to metastasis.

A number of tumor associated antigens have been described for breast carcinomas. The MUC 1 mucin a high molecular weight glycoprotein is highly expressed on breast carconimas. BA 46 is a transmembrane associated glycoprotein of the human milk fat globule membrane HMFG that is overexpressed in human breast carcinomas. Anti BA 46 radio conjugated monoclonal antibodies have successfully targeted human breast tumors transplanted into mice.

The effect of conjugating 1 6 glucan to MUC 1 and BA 46 derived peptides on their ability to induce CTL which preferentially recognize breast tumor derived peptides is tested.

The 1 6 glucan polysaccharide is conjugated directly to the MUC 1 and BA 46 derived peptides. Conjugates are monitored to ensure that they retain specificity to the target retain complement fixing properties of the polysaccharide and are soluble.

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed in the scope of the claims.

In the claims articles such as a an and the mean one or more than one unless indicated to the contrary or otherwise evident from the context. Claims or descriptions that include or or and or between members of a group are considered satisfied if one more than one or all of the group members are present in employed in or otherwise relevant to a given product or process unless indicated to the contrary or otherwise evident from the context. The invention includes embodiments in which exactly one member of the group is present in employed in or otherwise relevant to a given product or process. The invention also includes embodiments in which more than one or all of the group members are present in employed in or otherwise relevant to a given product or process. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention provides in various embodiments all variations combinations and permutations in which one or more limitations elements clauses descriptive terms etc. from one or more of the listed claims is introduced into another claim dependent on the same base claim unless otherwise indicated or unless it would be evident to one of ordinary skill in the art that a contradiction or inconsistency would arise. Where elements are presented as lists e.g. in Markush group format or the like it is to be understood that each subgroup of the elements is also disclosed and any element s can be removed from the group. It should it be understood that in general where the invention or aspects of the invention is are referred to as comprising particular elements features etc. certain embodiments of the invention or aspects of the invention consist or consist essentially of such elements features etc. For purposes of simplicity those embodiments have not in every case been specifically set forth in haec verba herein. Certain claims are presented in dependent form for the sake of convenience but Applicant reserves the right to rewrite any dependent claim in independent format to include the elements or limitations of the independent claim and any other claim s on which such claim depends and such rewritten claim is to be considered equivalent in all respects to the dependent claim in whatever form it is in either amended or unamended prior to being rewritten in independent format.

